 Annual Report 
and Accounts 
2010
Europe’s leading 
floorcovering 
distributor www.crucial-trading.com www.plantationrug.co.uk
Headlam markets, supplies and 
distributes an extensive range of 
floorcovering products to independent 
flooring retailers and contractors 
throughout the UK, France, Switzerland 
and the Netherlands.
The group’s operational strategy is focused on providing 
our customers with an up to date comprehensive range of 
competitively priced floorcovering products with the support 
of a next day delivery. 
As part of this strategy, Headlam offers its suppliers the 
opportunity to achieve wide market penetration backed by 
cost effective distribution.
In implementing this strategy, Headlam has developed  
a diverse and autonomous structure with 49 businesses  
in the UK and a further five in Continental Europe.
A key factor contributing to the group’s success is the 
individuality of experienced management teams who are 
responsible for the market presence, development and 
ultimate profitability of their business.
Each business is supported by the commitment to  
continued investment in people, product, facilities and IT. 
This commitment has provided the basis for the group’s 
growth and performance enabling it to develop into 
Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor.
Financial Highlights 1
Market Presence 2
The Year in Review
Chairman’s Statement 10
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Financial Review 20
Directors, Officers and Advisers 22
Accounts
Financial Calendar 23
Directors’ Report 24
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
  in respect of the Annual Report and   
  Accounts and the Financial Statements 28
Corporate Governance 29
Remuneration Report 36
Corporate and Social Responsibility 47
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
  members of Headlam Group plc 51
Consolidated Income Statement 52
Consolidated Statement of  
  Comprehensive Income 53
Statements of Financial Position 54
Statement of Changes in Equity 55
Cash Flow Statements 57
Notes to the Financial Statements 58
Principal Trading Subsidiaries 103
Financial Record 104
Notice of AGM 105
Explanatory Notes 110
Shareholder Information 113 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01
Financial Highlights
 Earnings Per Share (p) Proposed Dividends (p)
Financial Highlights
 Revenue (£m)
2009 2005 2007 2008 2006
533.8 535.7
486.7
544.7
557.3
509.9
2010
2009 2005 2007 2008 2006 2010 2009 2005 2007 2008 2006 2010
 Operating Profit (£m)
2009 2005 2007 2008 2006 2010
24.8
26.1
41.5
46.0
41.7
43.9
19.1
21.5
33.1
37.1
34.5 35.1
11.00
12.40
18.00
23.10
19.70 20.15 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 02
Market Presence
The UK operating structure is based on five market  
sectors each aimed at maximising penetration and  
supporting different aspects of the floorcovering market. 
Our Regional and National multi-product 
businesses provide a comprehensive 
residential and commercial product 
range and extensive geographical 
coverage. 
The Regional commercial 
businesses focus on strong 
relationships with suppliers and a 
high level of localised service for 
their customers. 
Our Residential specialist businesses supply 
medium to premium residential carpet on 
a national basis and the Commercial specialist 
businesses, which have a national presence, provide 
a range of products servicing various aspects of the 
commercial market.
Our business in France operates from two distribution 
centres and 21 service centres and the businesses in 
Switzerland and the Netherlands each operate from 
a single distribution centre. All five businesses on the 
Continent offer an extensive range of products providing  
full national coverage  
across their respective  
countries. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03
Market Presence
Regional Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 04
National Multi-product Distribution
Market Presence continued
Distribution Hub
Distribution Centre
Trans-shipping Location Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
Market Presence
Regional Commercial Distribution
Distribution Centre
Shared Distribution Centre
Service Centre Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 06
National
Carpets
Orientalweavers@bmk
National Residential Specialist Products
Distribution Centre
Market Presence continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
National Commercial Specialist Products
Distribution Centre
Market Presence Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 08
Market Presence continued
European Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre Excellence in Systems
Customers in the UK, who are principally 
independent flooring retailers and 
contractors, placed 3,807,034 orders 
during 2010
Order
Market Presence
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
Investment in material processing  
and handling equipment enables us  
to increase efficiency and reduce waste
Immediate order processing, 
comprehensive product ranges and 
high stock levels allow us to respond 
quickly to customer demand
Orders, which are received on a daily 
basis, are processed immediately and 
subject to customers requirements 
delivered the following day
Select
Deliver
Cut
A
C
B
D Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10
I am pleased to report that in 2010, we were able to increase  
revenue by 0.4% to £535.7 million. This was against market  
conditions where most indicators suggested further reductions  
in market size in both the UK and Continental Europe.
Chairman’s Statement
Earnings and dividend
Profit before tax increased from £22.1 million to 
£25.0 million and earnings per share improved by 
12.6% from 19.1p to 21.5p. The board has therefore 
elected to increase the final dividend by 17.4% from 
7.30p to 8.57p. This results in a total dividend for  
the year of 12.4p, which represents an increase  
of 12.7% on 2009.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 1 July 2011 
to shareholders on the register at close of business  
on 3 June 2011.
Strategy
Whilst the group implemented limited restructuring  
in 2008 and 2009, we believe that maintaining  
our fundamental structure has strengthened our market 
position in a challenging environment and gives us  
the opportunity to continue to enlarge the business  
as market conditions stabilise and improve.
The group remains fully committed to the product 
development, sales, marketing and distribution  
of floorcovering in the UK and Continental Europe.  
In the UK, revenue growth and the consequent 
increase in profitability, has been achieved through  
our policy of operating through 49 individual 
management teams and businesses, focused on 
their geographical areas and product categories. 
This performance has been enhanced by a positive 
contribution from our businesses in Continental Europe.
The group’s growth objectives will continue to be 
focused on the development of our floorcovering 
businesses in the UK and Continental Europe.
Maintaining our fundamental structure  
has strengthened our market position in  
a challenging environment. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
The Year in Review
Management and Employees
The board were pleased to advise you in May 
2010, of the appointment of Andrew Eastgate as 
a non-executive director. Andrew brings a wealth of 
corporate experience and we look forward to working 
with him in the future.
Following the retirement last year of Andrew Simpson, 
we have realigned the responsibilities of the senior 
executive managers, Gary Phillips, Tony Judge, 
Keith Yates and Mike McMaster, to develop both 
their group and operational objectives. They direct 
and encourage the individual management teams to 
ensure compliance with group strategy, policy and 
achievement of their individual business objectives.
I would like to thank our management and employees 
for their contribution to another successful year in the 
development of our group.
Outlook
We have made a positive start to 2011 and whilst 
January and February are relatively lower trading 
months, it does give a good indication to future 
trading assuming normal seasonality.
With the group’s strategic direction established and 
the individual management teams having many sales 
and marketing initiatives in place, we are therefore 
confident, at this stage, of achieving our internal 
objectives for the year.
Graham Waldron Chairman Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12
Various market indicators would suggest that conditions 
remained difficult in both the UK and Continental 
Europe and therefore, the group’s revenue increase 
reflects an outperformance in our respective markets.
We believe that with our autonomous operating 
structure and proactive management teams, we can 
continue to outperform the floorcovering market and 
develop our business, principally by organic growth, 
but also, with appropriate strategic acquisitions.
UK Structure
As referred to in the Chairman’s Statement, we 
considered it appropriate for the group to retain the 
fundamental structure that has been developed over 
the last 19 years, in order to preserve the inherent 
culture and maintain the opportunity to increase the 
group’s market presence.
The UK operations incorporate 49 individual 
businesses, operating from 18 distribution centres and 
14 service centres. These businesses are positioned 
within five market sectors, based on their geographical 
focus and product offering.
The individual businesses market very diverse product 
portfolios, therefore offering an extensive choice to our 
customers throughout the UK.
The five market sectors are:
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses 
represent 52% of UK revenue, selling both residential 
and commercial floorcovering and provide a 
comprehensive geographical coverage. They have 
continued to develop their market share providing  
a solid base for the group to expand. 
National multi-product: Operating principally under 
the Mercado trade brand, these businesses, offering 
a national service for residential and commercial 
floorcovering throughout England, Wales and 
Northern Ireland, maintained their market position.
Regional commercial: Following on from the 
successful development of this sector, it is our intention 
over the next three years to increase the number  
of operations from 16, either through acquisition  
or development of new service centre operations,  
to further enhance our position in the regional 
commercial market.
Residential specialist: Operating mainly in the middle 
to premium quality carpet market, the performance 
of these 14 businesses has been particularly 
encouraging, given the challenging market conditions. 
They have added an extra dimension to our business 
over the last 10 years and have undoubtedly taken  
the group into additional product areas and widened 
our customer base within the floorcovering market.
Commercial specialist: Following the restructuring 
of our commercial specialist business in 2009, it is 
pleasing to report that JHS has prospered and further 
developed its market position in 2010.
Chief Executive’s Review
The 0.4% increase in the group’s revenue was achieved in both  
a challenging market environment and particularly harsh weather 
conditions in the UK during January and December 2010. If the  
effects of these two months are excluded, the increase in revenue from 
February to November is 1.2% in the UK, which is a better reflection  
of the underlying performance during the year.
Our managers have spent many years  
gaining a thorough understanding of  
the floorcovering market. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
Management
Our individual managers have spent many years 
gaining a thorough understanding of the floorcovering 
market. They are clearly focused on their individual 
objectives against which they are measured and 
subsequently rewarded.
Within the autonomous teams we have taken the 
opportunity, due to retirement and certain changes 
in management, to promote internally and the early 
results of this are particularly encouraging.
It has been the group’s policy to promote from within 
wherever possible, but there are certain instances, 
particularly with our more specialist businesses,  
where it is appropriate to recruit externally.
These various opportunities demonstrate to all our 
employees that there is a career path within the group 
and sufficient opportunities for them to expand their 
individual aspirations.
41,334
41,994
41,539
2009 2010 2008
Active Customer Accounts
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14
Suppliers
We continue to work closely from a group  
strategic perspective and also through our individual 
operating businesses with our suppliers, principally  
the leading floorcovering manufacturers in the UK  
and Continental Europe.
Our supplier base has remained fairly stable 
throughout the last 12 months and we would like to 
thank our suppliers for their ongoing support through 
the launch of new products, which ensures that the 
independent floorcovering retailers and contractors  
are at the forefront of all new floorcovering products  
in our respective markets.
Market Presence
The individual management teams operate within  
a specified strategy relating to their market position, 
complying with standard operating disciplines and 
financial controls. However, within this structure they 
are given autonomy to develop their business through 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
The independent floorcovering retailers and contractors 
are at the forefront of all new floorcovering products.
UK Warehouse Capacity
52
million cubic feet Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15
their relationship with suppliers and customers.  
This ensures that we have a constant programme  
of promotional events, customer initiatives, marketing 
plans and product launches.
During 2010, we have experienced a similar 
performance from our UK businesses in residential  
and commercial floorcoverings. This has resulted  
in the product mix being stable at 69% residential  
and 31% commercial.
Our individual management teams are continually 
developing product and during 2010, our businesses 
in the UK launched 3,109 new products, including 
carpet, residential vinyl, laminate and wood. These 
were supported by our 366 external sales people 
in the UK placing, into independent flooring retailers 
and contractors, 626,637 new point of sale items, 
typically display stands and pattern books.
Furthermore, we launched, through our regional and 
national multi-product businesses, the Lifestyle Floors 
brand during 2010. This was originally intended to 
promote a limited number of carpet ranges, but with 
such a positive reaction from our customer base, we 
have both extended the number of carpet ranges and 
also developed other products under the Lifestyle Floors 
brand, including residential vinyl, laminate, wood and 
luxury vinyl tile.
The Lifestyle Floors initiative, in conjunction with our 
normal daily product activities, will undoubtedly further 
support and develop the market presence of the group.
Residential: 2010
69%
Commercial: 2010 
31%
Commercial: 2009
31%
Residential: 2009
69%
The Year in Review
UK Revenue Percentage by Principal Product
Commercial specialist
5%
Residential 
specialist  
19%
National 
multi-product 
12%
Regional 
Commercial  
12%
Regional 
multi-product 
52%
UK Revenue Percentage by Market Sector Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16
Continental Europe
Our three operations in Continental Europe collectively 
produced a solid operating profit during 2010. 
The most positive performance was produced by 
Belcolor in Switzerland. Whilst market conditions in 
the Netherlands were generally challenging, our three 
businesses, Lethem Vergeer, Interplan and Silvester, 
showed some improvement towards the end of 2010. 
In France our single business, LMS, operating from two 
distribution centres and 21 service centres, produced 
a satisfactory result in a difficult market.
Investments
In May, we completed the purchase of a 110,000 
square feet freehold distribution centre, located in 
Rochdale, to provide National Carpets with increased 
capacity to expand its activities. We are still awaiting 
planning approval, for the construction of a 127,000 
square feet purpose built freehold distribution centre,  
in connection with the project to relocate Faithfulls,  
our regional multi-product business in the southeast  
of England, to a site in Hadleigh near Ipswich.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Each of our business teams are focused on meeting their individual 
targets, which provides the group with confidence to achieve its overall 
objectives for the year.
Customers
In order to maximise our position with independent 
floorcovering retailers and contractors, we closely 
monitor the call rate of our individual external sales 
people, which has culminated in 475,901 visits  
to our customers during the year.
Our customers are able to place orders until late 
afternoon for delivery the following working day.  
This service has resulted in our commercial vehicle 
drivers making 1,126,676 deliveries to customers’ 
premises during 2010.
This continual interface with customers has been 
largely responsible for the increase in the number 
of active accounts during 2010 to 41,994 from 
41,334 in 2009. In conjunction with this, our 
debtor days decreased from 45.4 to 44.8 days. 
It is encouraging that this activity and the payment 
to credit terms of our customers further reflect their 
positive performance and financial health.
UK Cut lengths
34,200
per week Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17
Outlook
The performance in 2010 and a positive start to 
2011 is a result of the tremendous effort from our 
management, sales people and all our employees.  
The group has positioned autonomous businesses  
into specific market sectors to take full advantage  
of all opportunities.
Through this structure we have extensive penetration 
into the floorcovering market encompassing both 
suppliers and customers.
Each of our business teams are focused on meeting 
their individual targets, which provides the group  
with confidence to achieve its overall objectives  
for the year.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
UK Deliveries
1,126,676
during 2010
The Year in Review 18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 19
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 20
Financial Review
TRADING
Revenue
Group revenue increased during the year by 0.4% from  
£533.8 million to £535.7 million.
In the UK, which accounts for 80.8% of group revenue  
(2009: 80.5%), like for like revenue increased by 0.4%  
from £428.8 million to £430.4 million with new businesses 
introduced during 2009 and 2010 contributing £2.4 million 
(2009: £0.8 million).
Based on constant currency, the Continental European  
businesses, which account for the balance of the group’s revenue, 
recorded a 0.7% decline in revenue. The affects of currency 
translation increase this to a 1.3% decline with revenue falling 
from £104.1 million to £102.9 million.
Gross margin and expenses
During the year, the businesses received an increased number 
of cut length orders for residential carpet, which yielded higher 
margins and a reduced number of orders for full rolls, which 
attract a lower margin. In addition, the group continues to develop 
initiatives to reduce the costs associated with withdrawing product 
from the market at the end of its life. These two factors were the 
principal reasons for the gross margin improving by 40 basis 
points, compared with 2009.
Distribution and administration expenses, collectively representing 
25.9% of revenue, were unchanged on the previous year. In 
isolation, distribution expenses increased, year on year, by 1.3%, 
fuel costs being the principal cause, whilst administration expenses 
registered a slight increase of 0.2%.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs reduced during the year by £1.6 million 
compared with 2009. Approximately half of the decrease  
was attributable to the reduced interest charge associated with 
the group’s UK borrowings, which occurred on cessation of the 
interest rate swap contract during April 2010. The other significant 
contributor to the change in the year was the net reduction in 
finance cost associated with the group’s pension plans.
Taxation
The effective rate of taxation increased to 28.5% during the 
year, which reflects the group’s mix of profits across the UK and 
Continental Europe and current level of disallowable expenditure. 
The anticipated effective rate for 2011 is expected to reduce  
to 28%.
Property valuation
In keeping with the company’s practice of updating the valuation 
of its freehold and long leasehold properties on a triennial basis, 
the portfolio was valued at 31 December 2010 on an existing 
use basis. The results of the valuation revealed an £11.3 million 
shortfall compared with depreciated historical cost. This is a 
considerable change compared with the position at 31 December 
2007, when the valuation exceeded depreciated historical cost 
by £12.1 million. The result is because the valuation is based 
on rental yields and of course, commercial property rentals have 
declined markedly during the period since December 2007.
An impairment review has been undertaken on the portfolio  
and with the exception of one property, which has been impaired 
by approximately £0.5 million, no further impairment was 
considered necessary.
 
The valuation excludes freehold properties located in Continental 
Europe and the property classified as held for sale as at  
31 December 2010.
Cash flows and net funds
Net cash flow from operating activities
Cash flows from operating profit before changes in working 
capital were unchanged year on year at £31.5 million.
Investment in net working capital during the year amounted to 
£0.2 million, which compares with a net contraction in 2009 
amounting to £12.2 million. The £12.4 million movement in 
year on year investment occurred as a result of the businesses 
moving back into a normal operating cycle following the unusual 
trading conditions during 2008 and 2009. In particular, the 
movement in inventory, which changed from a cash inflow of 
£6.6 million in 2009 to a cash outflow of £5.8 million in 2010, 
represented a substantial year on year reversal of £12.4 million, 
as the businesses replenished their product positions following the 
reductions of 2009. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21
The additional net working capital investment explains the  
£12.3 million decline in cash generated from operations. The 
reduced interest paid of £0.9 million and the £7.5 million cash 
outflow relating to the enhanced transfer value exercise are the 
principal reasons for the adverse variance in net cash flow from 
operating activities increasing by £6.8 million to £19.1 million.
Cash flows from investing and financing activities
Net cash outflows from investing activities totalled £3.0 million 
compared with £5.8 million during 2009 with investment  
in property, plant and equipment amounting to £7.0 million, 
compared with £7.3 million for 2009. The principal investment 
during the year was the purchase of the freehold distribution 
centre, located in Rochdale, for National Carpets. Cash 
proceeds, amounting to £3.2 million, as a result of the sale  
of property, plant and equipment were significantly higher  
in 2010 compared with £0.7 million in 2009.
Cash out flows from financing activities totalled £10.0 million 
compared with £15.2 million during the previous year, with the 
reduction in dividend payments of £7.2 million being the main 
reason for the change.
Changes in net funds
Group net funds increased by £0.8 million from £9.7 million  
to £10.5 million during the year as detailed in the table below. 
Employee benefits
During the year, the net deficit relating to the defined benefit 
pension plans decreased by £10.1 million from £22.8 million  
to £12.7 million. The additional contributions to the plan, 
£2.7 million (2009: £2.6 million) and the cash spent on the 
enhanced transfer value exercise, £7.5 million (2009: £nil) 
significantly contributed to the reduction. As mentioned last year, 
the company offered deferred members of the UK defined benefit 
pension plan the opportunity to transfer out. The amount finally 
expended in connection with this exercise was £0.3 million 
ahead of the £7.2 million reported at the half year. In addition, 
associated costs amounted to £0.3 million.
The additional contributions of £2.7 million, made to the plan 
during 2010, will be reassessed during 2011 when the UK 
plan’s actuary undertakes the triennial valuation as at 31 March 
2011. Furthermore, additional enhanced transfer value payments, 
totalling £3.3 million, have been made in 2011 as the group 
continues its strategy of eliminating the plan deficit.
Going concern
Having reviewed the group’s resources and a range of likely  
out-turns, the directors believe they have reasonable grounds  
for stating that the group has adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it  
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the group’s financial statements.
Steve Wilson Group Finance Director
The Year in Review
Changes in net funds
 At   At 
 1 January  Cash  Translation 31 December
 2010  flows  differences  2010
 £000  £000  £000  £000
Cash at bank and in hand 45,737 (1,444) 465 44,758
Bank overdraft (758) 730 28 –
 44,979 (714) 493 44,758
Debt due within one year (900) 642 33 (225)
Debt due after one year (34,392) 224 157 (34,011)
 9,687 152 682 10,522 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 22
Directors, Officers and Advisors
DIRECTORS
G Waldron 
Chairman i
Graham was appointed an executive director 
in June 1991 becoming Chairman later 
that year until 31 December 1999. On 
the resignation of Trevor Larman on 1 June 
2006 he was re-appointed Chairman. He 
has 58 years experience in the floorcovering 
industry. He was the non-executive Chairman 
of Tandem Group plc until his retirement from 
their board on 21 June 2010. 
A J Brewer 
Group Chief Executive n
Tony was appointed an executive director in 
June 1991, becoming Managing Director of 
the Floorcoverings Division in January 1992, 
and was appointed Group Chief Executive 
in November 2000. He has 33 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
S G Wilson 
Group Finance Director
Steve was appointed Group Finance  
Director in December 1991. He was the 
non-executive Chairman of Synergy Health 
plc until his retirement from their board  
on 22 September 2010. He is a fellow  
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
R W Peters 
Non-executive Director u l n
Dick was appointed a non-executive director 
in December 2005. He was formerly Senior 
Partner for the East Midlands practice of 
Deloitte & Touche in Nottingham. He is a BSc 
in Mathematics and Statistics and is a fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. 
He has considerable experience of auditing 
large companies, both UK and overseas, 
transactional support and project management 
activities. He is a director and Chairman  
of Headlam Pension Trustees Limited. 
M K O’Leary 
Senior Independent Director u l n
Mike was appointed a non-executive director 
in March 2006. He previously served on the 
Board of Misys plc in an executive capacity for 
15 years, was CEO of Marlborough Stirling 
and later a non-executive director at the Stroud 
& Swindon Building Society. He is currently 
non-executive Chairman of EMIS Group plc 
and Digital Healthcare Limited and a non-
executive director at Psion plc. 
A K Eastgate 
Non-executive Director u l n 
Andrew was appointed a non-executive director 
in May 2010. He was formerly a Partner in 
Pinsent Masons and head of the corporate 
practice in Birmingham. Andrew has a broad 
experience of advising quoted companies, 
particularly in connection with transactions 
and compliance issues. He is a non-executive 
director of Epwin Group Limited.
COMPANY SECRETARY
G M Duggan
Geoff was appointed Company Secretary  
in April 1998. He is a fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
G B Phillips 
Finance Director Operations
Gary joined the group in June 1992 and 
is the Finance Director of floorcovering 
operations. He is an associate of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. 
A R Judge 
Commercial Director, Coleshill  
and Tamworth businesses
Tony joined the group in May 1992, is the 
Managing Director of all the businesses 
operating from the Coleshill and Tamworth 
distribution centres and has operational 
responsibility for businesses located in 
Thatcham and Stockport. Tony has 30 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
K R Yates 
Managing Director, Mercado
Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and 
was subsequently appointed its Managing 
Director in 1996. In addition he has 
operational responsibility for the businesses 
located in Scotland. Keith has 28 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
M W McMaster 
Commercial Director selected UK Operations 
Mike joined the group in September 1997 
following the acquisition of MCD (UK) Ltd 
and was appointed to the Senior Executive 
Management in January 2009 with operational 
responsibility for fifteen of the UK businesses. 
Mike has 40 years experience in the 
floorcovering industry.
u Audit committee
l Remuneration committee
n Nomination committee 
i Charities committee
 
ADVISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B4 6GH
Taxation Advisers
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindley Place
Birmingham B1 2HZ
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 3333
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B3 2WN
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Corporate and Institutional Banking
5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place
Birmingham B3 2RB
Solicitors
Pinsent Masons LLP
3 Colmore Circus
Birmingham
B4 6BH
Stockbrokers
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham B15 3DU
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23
Accounts
Financial Calendar 
Announcements
Interim Management Statement        18 May 2011
Annual General Meeting        17 June 2011
Interim results announced        19 August 2011
Interim Management Statement        18 November 2011
Full year results announced        March 2012
Dividend Dates
Final dividend for 2010, if approved, payable to qualifying 
 shareholders on the register as at 3 June 2011     1 July 2011
Interim dividend for 2011 announced       19 August 2011
Interim dividend for 2011 payable       3 January 2012 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24
Directors’ Report 
The directors present their annual report to shareholders on the affairs 
of the group and the parent company (“company”) together with the 
audited Financial Statements and Independent Auditor’s Report, for  
the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the group are wholly aligned to the sales, 
marketing, supply and distribution of floorcovering and certain other 
ancillary products. The principal activity of the company is that of  
a holding company and its principal trading subsidiaries are listed  
on page 103. 
Review of the business
The Chairman’s Statement on page 10 and the Chief Executive’s 
Review and the Financial Review on pages 12 to 21 provide  
a detailed review of the group’s activities. The information contained 
in these sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as 
required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and should be 
treated as part of this report. The reports on corporate governance on 
pages 29 to 35 and corporate and social responsibility on pages 47 
to 50 are also incorporated into this report by reference. A description 
of the group’s financial risk management objectives and policies and 
its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk is contained  
in note 23 to the Financial Statements on page 91. 
Financial results and dividends
The profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company for  
the financial year was £17.9 million as shown in the Consolidated 
Income Statement set out on page 52.
The directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 
8.57p per share (2009: 7.30p), making a total dividend of 12.40p 
per share for the year (2009: 11.00p).The final dividend, if approved 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be 
payable on 1 July 2011 to shareholders whose names appear on 
the register at the close of business on 3 June 2011. The associated 
ex-dividend date is 1 June 2011. An interim dividend of 3.83p per 
share (2009: 3.70p) was paid on 4 January 2011 to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 4 December 2010.
Directors and their interests
The directors of the company during the financial year ended  
31 December 2010 were Graham Waldron, Tony Brewer, Steve 
Wilson, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary, David Grove and Andrew 
Eastgate. Biographical details of the directors currently serving on 
the board being set out on page 22. There were two changes to 
the board in the year, David Grove resigning on 17 March 2010 
and Andrew Eastgate being appointed on 17 May 2010. No 
other person has acted as a director of the company during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2010. The company’s Articles of 
Association (“articles”) give directors’ power to appoint and replace 
directors. They also provide that each director shall retire from office 
and shall be eligible for re-appointment at the third AGM after the 
general meeting at which they were appointed or last re-appointed. 
Accordingly Tony Brewer who retires by rotation and Andrew Eastgate 
who retires at the first AGM following his appointment, and being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election and election respectively at  
the forthcoming AGM.
In proposing their re-election and election, the board confirms to 
shareholders that following evaluation, each of these individuals’ 
performance continues to be effective and they have expressed a 
willingness to continue in their roles.
Details of directors’ remuneration and service contracts are set out in 
the Remuneration Report on pages 41 and 44. The beneficial interests 
of the directors and their immediate families in the company’s shares 
and their interests in share options are detailed in the Remuneration 
Report on page 42.
Directors’ conflict of interests
No director had, at any time during the period under review, any 
interests in any contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries, 
further detail of which is set out in the report on Corporate 
Governance.
Directors’ indemnity
The company maintains directors and officers liability insurance 
and indemnity cover (as defined in sections 233 and 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) which is provided for the benefit of the 
company’s directors and officers. No indemnity is provided for  
the company’s auditors. Further detail is set out in the report on 
Corporate Governance.
Management changes
With effect from 17 May 2010, Andrew Eastgate was appointed a 
non-executive director. Additionally, Mike McMaster was appointed 
to the senior executive management with responsibility for a number of 
the regional distribution businesses. Biographical details are shown on 
page 22.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The group’s business, results and financial condition are influenced 
by a range of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the 
control of the board. Whilst the following highlights some of these 
risks it is not intended to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks 
affecting the business. For instance, there are some risks which are  
as yet not known and others which whilst not presently material  
could become a significant factor in the future.
Market demand
A significant proportion of the group’s revenues are to independent 
retailers and flooring contractors. The activity levels within this 
customer base are determined by consumer demand created through 
residential property refurbishment or moves, new residential housing 
developments and a wide range of commercial refurbishment and 
new building projects. Periods of recession, low consumer confidence 
or changes in trends and preferences have the potential to affect 
market activity and therefore demand for products supplied by the 
group. However, market activity is monitored in each individual  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
Accounts
Directors’ Report 
continued
business and at group level on a daily basis which enables a rapid 
response to any factors adversely affecting trading. Furthermore, since 
the group’s principal activities are supply and distribution, it has the 
ability to quickly respond to market changes. This, coupled with the 
development of broad market penetration through the establishment 
of a range of diverse regional, national and specialist businesses 
provides the group with a degree of resilience and protection.
Competitor risk
The group operates in four different geographical markets which 
generally share similar trading characteristics. Within each market, 
the group competes with a variety of regional and national 
distributors, with manufacturers selling directly to our customer base 
and indirectly with multiple retail chains. The group seeks to sustain 
its competitive position by maintaining close relationships with its 
supplier and customer base. Substantial and continued investment 
in management, an extensive product offering, a knowledgeable 
sales resource, stock availability, IT, efficient material handling, and 
logistics removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the 
group to enhance its overall market position through its commitment to 
service. The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse 
and very fragmented. The group has deliberately adopted a cautious 
acquisition policy in these markets, searching for opportunities that 
provide good growth opportunities but at sensible valuations. Given 
the number of opportunities it is possible that a competitor, following 
a more aggressive acquisition strategy in Continental Europe, could 
challenge the group’s position as Europe’s leading floorcovering 
distributor.
Credit risk
The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit terms 
and therefore, there is always the risk that customers are unable 
to pay outstanding balances. The group has standardised credit 
checking and debt collection procedures at each individual business. 
Businesses are encouraged to share credit information with other 
group businesses on a regular basis in order to prevent the escalation 
of small credit risks. All open accounts are subject to credit limits and 
businesses must obtain approval from executive directors or senior 
executive management for credit limits in excess of £10,000. These 
procedures, combined with the local knowledge of the credit control 
teams, not only reduce the risk of default, but also, in a number of 
instances, provide opportunities to assist the customer to trade out of 
their default position. The group does not use credit insurance since 
the level of default is generally low. Appropriate impairment provisions 
are made whenever the likelihood of default is high.
Infrastructure
An important element of the group’s ability to service its customer  
base is its network of distribution and service centres. The group’s 
policy of improvement through continued investment in new or 
extended facilities has been one of the principal drivers behind the 
group’s historic growth rates. In order to support growth rates in the 
future, the group will continue to invest in new centres. There is a risk  
that future growth will be constrained if these development projects  
are unduly delayed through land availability, planning consent  
or prohibitive building cost.
Systems
The group is reliant on its IT systems to deliver its operational 
objectives and maintain financial control. As a consequence, any 
prolonged IT failure has the potential to adversely affect business 
activity. However, each business has its own dedicated computer 
system and failure in one will not interrupt another. Furthermore, the 
group operates well defined back up procedures and has contingency 
plans in place to enable swift recovery from a failure of this nature.
Transport
The majority of customer orders result in next day deliveries on 
vehicles operated by the group. Any interruption to this service, for 
example, major disruption to road networks or the prolonged reduced 
availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse affect on activity.
People
The group’s ability to deliver continued success is very dependent 
upon its people. The group is committed to providing a workplace 
that is safe and environmentally sound and creating opportunities 
for individuals to progress their careers. Recruitment, training and 
development are aimed at ensuring that the group has suitably skilled 
and qualified people to meet the operational needs of the business.
 
Pension
The cost of funding the group’s defined benefit plans may increase 
due to a decline in investment returns, movement in interest rates and 
longer life expectancy. As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation  
of the UK plan, undertaken at 31 March 2008, the group agreed  
to make additional payments every year until 2018, details of which 
are provided in note 20. The results of future scheme valuations, 
the next being 31 March 2011, could result in this commitment 
increasing or decreasing.
Government legislation
The group’s operations are regulated by a variety of laws, which 
relate, amongst others, to health and safety, the environment, 
employment, commercial, corporate, financial and tax. The group is 
committed to complying with these requirements in each of the markets 
in which it operates and achieves this by managing its obligations at 
the group level and within individual businesses. Where appropriate, 
the group engages the services of competent third party advisers. 
Changes in regulations are incorporated into the group’s policies and 
procedures on a timely basis.
AGM
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in 
Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 17 June 2011 at 10.00am. The 
notice convening this meeting is set out within this Annual Report and 
Accounts at page 105, along with explanatory notes regarding the 
resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting at pages 110 to 112. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 26
Directors’ Report 
continued
Recommendation
The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed at 
the AGM is in the best interests of the company and the shareholders 
as a whole. Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that 
all shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions, as the directors intend 
to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Takeovers directive
The following provides the additional information required to be 
provided for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the 
Takeovers Directive into English law.
As at 31 December 2010, the company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. 
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 22 to  
the Financial Statements which should be treated as forming part  
of this report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or  
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary 
share held. The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising 
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation  
to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted 
and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution 
are announced at the AGM and published on the company’s website 
after the meeting.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the company’s 
Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings 
of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.  
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws), 
and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
whereby certain directors, officers and employees of the company 
require the approval of the company to deal in the company’s 
ordinary shares. 
There are no requirements for prior approval of any transfers and  
none of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control  
of the company. 
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2010 AGM to permit the 
directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£1,122,500. This authority will expire at the earlier of the 2011 
AGM or 30 June 2011. No shares have been allotted by the 
company during the year.
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2010 AGM to permit the 
directors to undertake market purchases of up to 8,536,000 of the 
company’s shares. This authority will expire at the earlier of the 2011 
AGM or 30 June 2011. No shares have been purchased by the 
company during the year.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or  
voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy  
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. The company’s 
banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control  
of the company.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are 
contained in the company’s articles. Directors may be appointed 
by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board. A director 
appointed by the board holds office only until the next AGM. 
Directors are required to retire from office and shall be eligible for 
reappointment at the third AGM after the general meeting at which 
they were appointed or last re-appointed. 
The company’s articles may only be amended by a special resolution 
at a general meeting of shareholders. 
 
Substantial shareholdings
As at the last date prior to posting the Annual Report and Accounts,  
in accordance with the disclosure and transparency rules, the 
company had been notified of the following substantial interests in  
the share capital of the company.
Ordinary shares of 5p each
Shareholder  Number Per cent
Franklin Templeton  
 Institutional, LLC  11,657,571 14.02
Aviva plc  5,831,244 7.02
Tweedy, Browne  
 Company LLC  4,523,274 5.44
Aberforth Partners LLP  3,796,026 4.57
Schroders plc  3,565,486 4.18
Legal & General Investment  
 Management Limited  3,317,829 3.99
Blackrock, Inc  2,775,989 3.25
Liverpool Victoria Friendly  
 Society Limited  2,644,912 3.18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
Accounts
Directors’ Report 
continued
Contributions for political and charitable purposes
The group’s Charities Committee considers requests for charitable 
donations within set criteria. During 2010, in addition to donations 
made to overseas charities, the group contributed charitable donations 
to UK charitable organisations, principally to local organisations serving 
the communities in which it operates, of £26,253 (2009: £29,280).
The group’s policy is not to make any donations for political purposes 
in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political 
expenditure. Accordingly neither the company nor its subsidiaries 
made any political donations or incurred political expenditure  
in the financial period under review (2009: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the company and its subsidiaries of financial 
instruments can be found in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Supplier payment policy
It is the group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the 
company and its suppliers. The group seeks to strictly comply with 
these payment terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has 
provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms 
and conditions. The payment policy has been and will continue to be 
developed to meet the group’s specific requirements and is not based 
on any particular code or standard relating to payment practice. The 
number of creditor days of the company at 31 December 2010 was 
45 days (2009: 46 days).
The environment
The group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws 
and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business 
operation. It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any 
adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will 
promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available 
techniques.
Employees
The total number of employees at the end of the period was 2,020. 
The group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create 
an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work. 
The company maintains a policy of employing the best candidates 
available in every position, regardless of gender, ethnic group or 
background. It places considerable importance on communications 
with employees which take place at many levels through the 
organisation on both a formal and informal level. 
The group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the  
job can be adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons. 
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the group’s policy 
wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal 
terms and conditions and to provide training, career development 
and promotion wherever appropriate. Further details of arrangements 
relating to employees are described in the Corporate and Social 
Responsibility report on pages 47 to 50. 
A “whistle-blowing” policy and procedure is in place and has been 
notified to employees. The policy enables them to report any concerns 
on matters affecting the group or their employment, without fear of 
recrimination, and reduces the risk of malpractice taking place and 
remaining unreported. In addition, the group does not tolerate matters 
of discrimination, harassment and bullying, whether they relate to sex, 
race, national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual orientation and 
policies and procedures are in place for reporting and dealing with 
these matters.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the company and the 
group operates an HMRC Approved Savings Related Share Option 
Scheme (SAYE). Those employees who choose to take up the option to 
purchase shares in the company may enter into a savings arrangement 
for either a three or five year period, with the option price determined 
by reference to the share price at the date of grant. On exercise 
the shares are purchased by the employee free of income tax and 
national insurance, although capital gains tax rules apply.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 28 of the 
Annual Report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware, and each 
of the directors has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a 
director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and  
to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office  
as auditor of the company and in accordance with the provisions  
of section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for its  
re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its remuneration 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. Auditor remuneration and 
fees paid during the year to 31 December 2010 are set out in note 3 
to the Financial Statements.
This directors report has been approved by the board and signed  
on its behalf by
G M Duggan
Company Secretary
11 March 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 28
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts and the group and company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to 
prepare the company’s financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and company and of their profit 
or loss for that period. In preparing each of the group and company 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	then	apply	them	consistently;
•	 make	judgements	and	estimates	that	are	reasonable	and	prudent;
•	 state	whether	they	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRSs	 
as	adopted	by	the	EU;	and
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going	concer n	basis	unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that its 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that 
law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual 
financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the	financial	statements,	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company 
and	the	subsidiaries	included	in	the	consolidation	taken	as	a	whole;	
and
•	 the	Directors’	Repor t	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	development	
and performance of the business and the position of the company 
and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the board
Steve Wilson
Group Finance Director
11 March 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
Accounts
Corporate Governance
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
The company is of the view that in seeking to achieve a high standard 
of corporate governance in all of its activities, the group’s reputation 
and performance will be enhanced, to the benefit of the interests of 
investors, employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. 
Companies listed in the UK in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices 
are required to disclose how they have applied the principles of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in June 2008 and whether 
they have complied with its provisions throughout the year, providing 
an explanation where the provisions have not been complied with. 
The Code sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions 
on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good 
governance practice.
 
Whilst the company is currently a constituent member of the FTSE 
Small Cap and FTSE All Share indices, it continues to seek to comply 
with the provisions of the Code having been a constituent member  
of the FTSE 250 index in prior years.
To this end, the directors consider that the company has, with the 
exception of a two month period following the resignation of a non-
executive director and before a successor was appointed, complied 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of 
this report with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code 
having applied the main and supporting principles set out in section 1 
of the Code.
This report sets out how the principles of the Code are applied and 
reports on the company’s compliance with the Code’s provisions. 
Directors’ and board effectiveness
The board of directors (“board”) is collectively responsible to 
shareholders for the proper management and success of the group. 
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of 
prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and 
managed;	to	set	strategic	aims,	ensure	that	the	necessar y	financial	
and human resources are in place to meet its objectives and review 
management	per for mance;	to	set	the	group’ s	values	and	standards;	
and to ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are 
understood and met. 
The board operates on a unitary basis and comprises the Chairman, 
three independent non-executive directors and two full time executive 
directors, being the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director. A key element of the board’s responsibility is monitoring and 
reviewing the effectiveness of the group’s system of internal control. 
The non-executive directors play a pivotal role in challenging and 
scrutinising its effectiveness and integrity. 
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are clearly divided and periodically reviewed by the board. 
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the group, 
the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for leading the board and 
ensuring its effectiveness and the Group Chief Executive is responsible 
for implementing strategy, running the businesses in accordance with 
the objectives and policies agreed by the board and for the executive 
management of the group. The Chairman communicates frequently 
with the non-executive and executive directors and the non-executive 
directors have the opportunity to meet with and discuss any issues or 
concerns with the Chairman at any time throughout the year. Matters 
that are not specifically reserved for the board and its committees 
under their terms of reference or for shareholders in general meeting 
are delegated to the Group Chief Executive. The Chairman’s other 
business commitments are set out in the biographical details on page 
22. During the year he resigned as the non-executive Chairman of 
Tandem plc. The board is satisfied that his other business commitments 
did not unduly restrict his availability to the group.
The board maintains overall control of the group’s affairs through a 
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, most recently updated 
in October 2010. These include, but are not limited to, setting 
group strategy, approval of the business objectives and annual plan, 
acquisitions and disposals, authority limits for capital and other 
expenditure, material treasury matters, changes to capital structure and 
dividend policy, committee terms of reference, auditor appointment or 
removal and remuneration, board composition, succession planning, 
health and safety, investor relations, financial reporting and controls 
and corporate governance.
Further details of the board’s role in relation to the group’s systems of 
internal control and risk management are given on pages 34 and 35. 
A description of the specific responsibilities delegated to the principal 
board committees is given on pages 31 to 34.
The effectiveness of the board is vital to the success of the group.  
In line with agreed procedures, using an in-house process, the  
board has conducted an evaluation of its own performance and  
that of its committees and individual directors, including the Chairman. 
No actions were considered necessary as a result of the evaluations. 
The board intends to conduct a further evaluation of its performance 
during 2011 with the aim of continually improving processes, 
procedures and performance. The evaluation process is designed 
to cover board processes, the structure and capability of the board, 
strategic alignment, board dynamics and the skills brought to the 
board by each director. The board is of the opinion that the directors 
seeking re-election/election at the AGM have continued to give 
effective counsel and commitment to the company and accordingly 
should be re-elected/elected.
Board of directors
As referred to above, during the year the board consisted of six 
members, three executive directors comprising Graham Waldron, 
Chairman, Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive and Steve Wilson, 
Group Finance Director and three independent non-executive 
directors, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary, David Grove up until his 
resignation on 17 March 2010 and with effect from 17 May  
2010, Andrew Eastgate.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 30
Corporate Governance 
continued
The board considers that the balance achieved between executive 
and non-executive directors during the year was appropriate and 
effective for the control and direction of the business.
The board is assisted by committees that it has established with  
written terms of reference, details of which are set out below.
Mike O’Leary was the Senior Independent Director throughout 
the year. All of the directors bring strong judgement to the board’s 
deliberations and the board is of sufficient size and diversity that the 
balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for 
the requirements of the business. The non-executive directors are all 
independent of management and free from any business or other 
relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred 
to in provision A.3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with 
the exercise of independent and objective judgement. In making 
this determination the board has considered whether each director 
is independent in character and judgement and whether there are 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could 
affect, the director’s judgement. The board believes that it is evident 
from the consideration of the non-executive directors’ biographies 
that they are of the integrity and stature to perform their roles of 
independent non-executive directors. The Senior Independent Director 
is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not 
resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive or Group Finance Director, or for which such contact is 
inappropriate. The board will keep under review the size and structure 
of the board to ensure it is appropriate for the ongoing business.  
The non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus, share 
option or pension scheme of the company. The biographical details  
of the current directors are given on page 22.
The procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board  
is described in the section on the Nominations committee below.  
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term 
and, subject to review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum  
of three such terms. 
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
following their appointment by the board. Under the articles of the 
company, each of the directors is required to retire by rotation at least 
once every three years. Details of the directors retiring and seeking  
re-election at an AGM are given to shareholders in the Directors’ 
Report and also in the Notice of AGM. 
Board information, induction, training and professional development
All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of 
the group’s affairs. The non-executive directors have a particular 
responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive 
directors are fully discussed and critically examined to ensure that they 
take proper account of the best long term interests of the shareholders, 
employees, customers, suppliers and the community.
To enable them to do this, the board has a forward rolling business 
agenda which is regularly updated to include specific topics that 
directors have requested for review at future meetings. The board 
reviews the key activities of the business receiving papers and 
presentations from executive management and external advisers, 
generally a week in advance of the meeting, to enable it to do  
so effectively. There is an established procedure for the preparation 
and review, by the board of the annual budget. The board receives 
regular reports from the senior executive management covering a 
broad range of issues including health, safety and environmental 
matters, finance and operational performance, risk management, 
business development initiatives, special projects, legal and regulatory 
developments, governance and best practice guidelines that affect  
the group. The Company Secretary is responsible to the board, and  
is available to individual directors, in respect of board procedures. 
In conjunction with the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures  
that information distributed to the board is sufficient, clear and 
accurate, that it is circulated in a timely manner and is appropriate  
to enable the board to discharge its duties.
On joining the board, a director receives a comprehensive  
induction pack which includes background information about  
the group and its directors, details of board meeting procedures,  
directors’ responsibilities, procedures for dealing in company shares 
and a number of other governance-related issues. The director  
meets with the Group Chief Executive to be briefed on the general 
group strategy encompassing visits to group businesses. External 
training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a director and 
the role and responsibilities of board committees, is arranged as 
appropriate. Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary 
and may be identified in annual performance reviews or on an ad 
hoc basis. The suitability of external courses is kept under review  
by the Company Secretary. Training and development in the year 
took various forms, including visits to group businesses with the 
Group Chief Executive, attendance by certain directors at courses 
run by professional bodies on various commercial and regulatory 
matters. Directors receive regular updates appropriate to the business 
throughout the year and the company provides resources for directors 
to develop and refresh their knowledge and capabilities as required. 
All directors are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so as to 
be able to participate fully in the work of the board. To assist with the 
independent conduct of their function and if required in connection 
with their duties, the non-executive directors are able to obtain 
professional advice at the company’s expense, and a process is in 
place to facilitate this. The company provides directors’ and officers’ 
insurance cover, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of 
directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Accountability and audit
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements under adopted IFRS is set out on 
page 28. The directors’ confirmation that they consider it appropriate 
to prepare the accounts for 2010 on a going concern basis is given  
on page 21. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31
Accounts
Corporate Governance 
continued
Board meetings and attendance
The board usually meets nine times a year and normally includes at 
least one meeting at an operating business. During the year there are 
sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present should this be 
deemed appropriate. In addition, directors have frequent contact 
between meetings and directors visit trading locations in  
order to maintain close contact with the group’s business.
A record of the meetings held during the year by the board,  
its committees and the attendance by individual directors  
is set out below.
Directors’ interests and indemnity arrangements
At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in 
any contract of significance with the company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings other than a third-party indemnity provision between 
each director and the company and service contracts between each 
executive director and the company. The company has purchased 
and maintained throughout the year directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and its directors. The directors also have 
the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the company’s 
articles. These provisions, which are qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions as defined by Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, 
were in force throughout the year and are currently in force. Details of 
directors’ remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shares of 
the company are set out in the directors’ Remuneration Report.
The company also provides an indemnity for the benefit of each 
person who was a director of Headlam Group Pension Trustees 
Limited, which is a corporate trustee of the company’s occupational 
pension schemes, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in 
their capacity as directors of that corporate trustee. These provisions, 
which are qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined 
in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout 
the year and are currently in force.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The board has maintained procedures whereby potential conflicts 
of interests are reviewed regularly. These procedures have been 
designed so that the board may be reasonably assured that any 
potential situation where a director may have a direct or indirect 
interest which may conflict or may possibly conflict with the interests  
of the company are identified and where appropriate dealt with  
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the company’s 
articles. The board has not had to deal with any conflict during the 
period.
Board committees
The board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
committees to oversee and debate important issues of policy and 
assist in attending to its responsibilities, each with terms of reference 
that each comply with the provisions of the Code and are available 
on written request from the Company Secretary at the registered office 
and will be available on the company’s website during April 2011. 
The roles of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination committees 
are set out below. The Audit and Remuneration committees were 
comprised of the three independent non-executive directors with 
the Group Chief Executive additionally serving on the Nomination 
committee.
Board attendance statistics for the 52 week period ended  
31 December 2010
     Board Committee meetings
      meetings Remuneration Audit Nomination
Total number of meetings     9 4 3 2
Graham Waldron     9 * * *
Tony Brewer     9 * * 2
Stephen Wilson     8 * * *
Dick Peters     9 4 3 2
Mike O’Leary     8 4 3 2
David Grove (resigned 17 March 2010)    1 1 – –
Andrew Eastgate (appointed 17 May 2010)    6 2 2 –
*Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the respective committee Chairman.
In addition to the board meetings above there were two meetings which approved the 2010 Interim and 2009 Annual Report and Accounts. These meetings are constituted 
by a committee of the board formed for that sole purpose comprising the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director having considered the views of the whole board 
beforehand. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 32
Corporate Governance 
continued
Audit committee
The Audit committee was chaired during the year by Dick Peters  
and is comprised of all of the non-executive directors. 
The committee monitors the integrity of the company’s financial 
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. It is 
responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the 
company and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing 
non-audit services and fees, and makes recommendations to the 
board on the appointment, re-appointment or dismissal of the external 
auditor. It also reviews the group’s systems of internal control and  
the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group 
on an ongoing basis. The committee periodically reviews its terms  
of reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the board  
any changes required as a result of such review. 
The Audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors.  
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee. Dick  
Peters is a chartered accountant with considerable financial and  
audit experience and is considered by the board to have recent  
and relevant financial experience. 
Only members of the committee are entitled to be present at meetings 
however the auditor, Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director attend meetings by invitation. The company does 
not have a formal internal audit function, considering that one is not 
appropriate. However detailed monthly reviews are carried out by the 
Finance Director for Operations and Financial Controller. The Finance 
Director for Operations reports to the Group Finance Director and has 
access to the Chairman of the committee. The committee members, all 
other directors and senior executive management have direct access 
to the external auditor throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any 
issues or concerns. 
The committee has an agenda linked to events in the group’s financial 
calendar, normally meeting at least twice a year, including meetings 
before the annual and interim results announcements. The committee 
met three times in the year, members’ attendance record being given 
on page 31, during which it discharged its responsibilities as set out 
in its terms of reference and schedule of business for the year. All of 
the committee members attended the meetings that they were eligible 
to attend. The committee has authority to investigate any matters within  
its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and 
to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the company.
At each meeting there is an opportunity for the external auditor to 
discuss matters with the committee without any executive management 
being present. The committee has independent access to the external 
auditor who has direct access to the Chairman of the committee 
outside formal committee meetings. The Audit committee has the 
specific task of keeping under review the nature and extent of non-
audit services provided by the external auditor in order to ensure that 
objectivity and independence are maintained. The Audit committee 
reviews annually the independence of the external auditor and  
the individuals carrying out the audit.
The committee seeks to balance the benefits of continuity of audit 
personnel and the need to ensure independence through a change  
of audit personnel by agreeing with the auditor staff rotation policies. 
Whilst KPMG have been an external auditor to the group since 
1992, there is a procedure in place for the audit partner to change 
every five years, so maintaining objectivity and independence without 
the need to change firm, the last such change taking place during 
2009.
The external auditor has in place processes to ensure its independence 
is maintained including safeguards to ensure that, where it does 
provide non-audit services, its independence is not compromised.  
It has written to the Audit committee confirming that, in its opinion,  
it is independent. During the year the committee reviewed the scope 
and programme of work to be undertaken by the external auditor, 
considered the independence and objectivity of services provided  
and reviewed the level of fees paid for those services. 
During 2010, the Audit committee discharged its responsibilities by:
•	 	 reviewing	the	group’ s	draft	2009	preliminar y	annual	results	
announcement and financial statements and 2010 interim results 
statement prior to board approval, including consideration of the 
significant accounting judgments contained therein, and reviewing 
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon.
•	 	 reviewing	the	consistency	of	and	any	changes	to	the	group’ s	
accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting 
standards and methods used to account for significant or unusual 
transactions.
•	 	 reviewing	the	potential	impact	on	the	group’ s	financial	statements	 
of certain matters such as impairment of asset values and employee 
benefits.
•	 	 reviewing	the	ef fectiveness	of	the	2009	exter nal	audit	process	 
and recommending to the board, after due consideration, the  
re-appointment of the incumbent external auditor at the AGM.
•	 	 reviewing	the	application	of	the	board’ s	policy	on	non-audit	work	
performed by the group’s external auditor together with the non-
audit fees payable to the external auditor in 2009.
•	 	 reviewing	the	exter nal	auditors’	plan	for	the	audit	of	the	group’ s	
2010 accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the 
accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed 
audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit.
•	 	 reviewing	repor ts	from	the	exter nal	auditor	on	the	group’ s	systems	
of internal control in advance of the announcement of the group’s 
results for 2009 (the internal report included a summary of and 
commentary on the business risks and internal control processes) 
and reporting to the board on the results of this review and 
reviewing interim updates prior to the interim results.
•	 	 receiving	regular	updates	from	executive	directors	and	senior	
executive management on key financial control matters arising in 
the group.
•	 	 considering	the	appropriateness	of	an	inter nal	audit	function.
•	 	 reviewing	and	assessing	the	group’ s	compliance	with	corporate	
governance principles.
•	 	 reviewing	arrangements	by	which	staf f	may	in	confidence	raise	
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting and other matters. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33
Accounts
Corporate Governance 
continued
Resolution 5 set out in the Notice of AGM recommends that 
shareholders re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the group’s auditor and 
resolution 6 authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the group considers 
the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in 
this respect it has used Deloitte to conduct non-audit tax work. 
The committee recognises that there are occasions when it is 
advantageous to use the external auditor to undertake non-audit 
services, when they are best placed to do so. The committee 
operates under a formal policy approved by the board to help 
ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is 
not compromised. The policy states that non-audit fees paid to the 
principal external auditor should not exceed 250% of the audit 
fee, except in the case of significant events. The Chairman of the 
committee is required to authorise non-audit work above a pre-agreed 
threshold. Note 3 to the Financial Statements provides a breakdown 
of 2009 and 2010 audit and non-audit fees. In 2010, the non-audit 
services provided by the external auditor, predominantly in respect of 
iXBRL mapping, winding up dormant companies and P11D software, 
amounting to £21,000 was below the pre-agreed threshold. 
As a result of its work during the year, the committee has concluded 
that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has 
ensured, as far as possible by enquiry of them, the independence 
of the external auditors. The terms of reference of the committee are 
available on request from the Company Secretary at the registered 
office and will be available on the company’s website during April 
2011. The Chairman of the committee will be available at the AGM 
to answer any questions on the work of the committee.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee, chaired by Mike O’Leary and 
comprising all of the non-executive directors, establishes, on behalf 
of the board, the remuneration policy generally, approves specific 
arrangements for the Chairman and the executive directors and 
reviews and comments upon the proposed arrangements for senior 
executive management so as to ensure consistency within the overall 
remuneration policy and group strategy. Further information on the 
activities of the committee is given in the directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 36 to 46 which should be read in conjunction with 
this report. The directors’ Remuneration Report also describes how the 
principles of the Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters 
and includes a statement on the company’s policy on directors’ and 
senior executive managers’ remuneration, benefits, share scheme 
entitlements and pension arrangements. During the period no  
director was, and procedures are in place to ensure that no  
director is, involved in deciding or determining their own 
remuneration. A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report  
will be proposed at the AGM.
Nominations committee
The Nominations committee, chaired during the year by Mike 
O’Leary, comprises all of the non-executive directors and the Group 
Chief Executive. The terms of reference of the committee are available 
on request to the Company Secretary at the registered office and will  
be available on the company’s website during April 2011.
The committee leads the process for identifying and makes 
recommendations to the board on candidates for appointment as 
directors of the company and as Company Secretary, giving full 
consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs  
of the group. It also makes recommendations to the board on  
the composition and Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration 
committees. It keeps under review the structure, size and composition 
of the board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience and the independence of the non-executive directors,  
and makes recommendations to the board with regard to any 
changes. The committee meets periodically when required. The 
Nominations committee met twice in the year, as reflected in the 
attendance record during 2010 given on page 31. Only members 
of the committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may 
be invited by the committee to attend. The board has agreed the 
procedures to be followed by the Nominations committee in making 
appointments to the various positions on the board and as Company 
Secretary. The committee has access to such information and advice 
both from within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, 
as it deems necessary. This may include the appointment of external 
executive search consultants, where appropriate. No director is 
involved in any decisions regarding their appointment.
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three year  
term pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which is available 
for viewing at the company’s registered office during normal business 
hours or at the AGM.
The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive a 
full induction and when considering the re-appointment of directors 
ensures that the board has an appropriate balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience. Items discussed by the committee 
during the year to enable it to discharge its duties in accordance 
with its terms of reference included the size, structure, composition 
and skills of the board membership, the resignation of David Grove, 
the appointment of Andrew Eastgate, the proposal to elect Andrew 
Eastgate and to re-elect Tony Brewer under the retirement by rotation 
provisions and the evaluation process relating to the board and 
its committees, the operation of which is described above. When 
considering the appointment of Andrew Eastgate, the committee 
did not seek advice in respect of potential candidates from external 
executive search consultancies or publicly advertise the role, preferring 
to make its own enquiries and pursue recommendations.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 34
Corporate Governance 
continued
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates 
from the Group Chief Executive on succession and development 
planning for senior positions within the group. Changes to directors’ 
commitments are reported to the committee as they arise and are 
considered on their individual merits. There were no significant 
changes to any of the directors’ external commitments during the  
year. Appointments to the committee are made by the board. 
Communication with shareholders
The company places considerable importance on communication  
with shareholders and engages with them on a regular basis. The 
board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment 
of the group’s financial position and prospects in its reporting to 
shareholders and this is outlined in the Financial Review. The company 
reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its half year and 
full year results are announced and an interim and an annual report  
is issued to shareholders.
The company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and  
meetings between the executive directors and institutional investors 
and analysts which cover strategy, trading and market conditions. 
The company seeks to present an accurate and objective view in a 
manner appropriate for the intended audience. Contact with the major 
shareholders is principally maintained by the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director. The Chairman ensures that the views  
of shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have met  
with the company’s brokers during the year to ensure they are aware 
of the current views of major shareholders and of any material issues 
they may have. These reports include summaries on the market’s 
reaction to results announcements and the subsequent meetings 
between management and investors. External brokers’ reports  
on the company are circulated to all directors.
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors 
are invited to attend presentations to analysts and institutional 
shareholders, in particular the annual and interim results presentations. 
The Senior Independent Director attended several meetings with 
shareholders in the year during which a variety of subjects were 
discussed.
The company’s AGM provides an opportunity for the board to 
communicate with private investors. At the meeting, the company 
complies with the Code as it relates to voting, the separation of 
resolutions and the attendance of committee Chairmen. Wherever 
possible directors attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask 
questions during the meeting and to have the opportunity to meet with 
the directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting. 
The group seeks to present an accurate, objective and balanced 
picture in its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results 
presentations and city announcements in a style and format which is 
appropriate to the intended audience. Copies of annual and interim 
reports, along with other published information and press releases,  
are available on the company’s website at www.headlam.com.  
The Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders  
at least twenty working days before the AGM and separate  
resolutions are proposed on each substantial issue. Shareholders 
at the meeting are advised as to the level of proxy votes received, 
including the percentage for and against each resolution together  
with the level of abstentions, following each vote on a show of 
hands. In line with the Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, 
including votes withheld, are made available on request and are 
placed on the company’s website following the AGM.
Details of the 2011 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM which 
forms part of these Annual Report and Accounts along with details  
of the facilities available for proxy votes to be cast electronically.  
The company offers shareholders the right to withhold their vote,  
if they so wish, in line with best practice.
Risk management and internal controls
The board recognises that the management of risk through the 
application of a consistent process during the year as required by 
Code provision C2 (Internal Control) is key to ensuring that a robust 
system of internal control is monitored by the business. The principle 
risks and uncertainties facing the company may include some of those 
identified on pages 24 and 25 in the Directors’ Report. It should be 
borne in mind that this is not an exhaustive list and that there may be 
other risks that have not been considered or that the board consider 
now are insignificant or immaterial in nature, but that may arise and/
or have a larger effect than originally expected. 
The Code requires directors to review and report annually to 
shareholders on the effectiveness of the company’s systems of 
internal control which include financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management. The board has overall responsibility 
for establishing and maintaining the group’s systems of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness whilst the implementation 
of internal control systems is the responsibility of management. The 
board continues to apply the internal control provisions of the Code 
through a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks the group faces. This process has been in place 
throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this report, 
and the group has been in compliance with the provisions set out 
in section 1, C2, of the Code, including consideration of corporate 
social responsibility matters.
The objective of the group’s risk management processes is to 
ensure sustainable development throughout the conduct of its 
business in a way which satisfies its customers, maintains proper 
relationships with suppliers and contractors, protects against losses 
from unforeseen causes, provides a safe and healthy workplace, 
develops environmentally friendly processes, minimises the cost and 
consumption of increasingly scarce resources, prevents pollution  
and waste and maintains a positive relationship with the communities 
in which it does business. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
Accounts
Corporate Governance 
continued
Against this background, the systems are designed to meet the  
group’s particular needs and designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risks. By their nature, they provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
board considers that the measures taken, including physical controls, 
segregation of duties and reviews by management, provide sufficient 
and objective assurance.
During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical 
reporting and review in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
group’s systems of financial and non-financial controls. The group 
has developed a comprehensive series of operating and financial 
control procedures which are applied at all businesses and the 
group finance team performs monthly reviews to verify that the 
businesses are complying with the prescribed operating and financial 
control procedures. In addition, the board reviews risk management 
arrangements. Furthermore, the Audit committee receives reports from 
the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory 
audit work.
These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of 
accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by 
management for completeness and accuracy. These procedures allow 
for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels  
of management through to the board. Planned corrective actions  
are monitored for timely completion. During the course of its review  
of the system of internal control, the board has not identified any 
failings or weaknesses, or been advised of any, which it has 
determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of 
necessary actions has not been considered appropriate. In addition, 
there were no changes in the group’s internal controls or financial 
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely  
to affect, the group’s systems of internal control.
The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including 
detailed reviews at all subsidiaries, together with formal reviews 
and approval of annual plans by the board. Actual performance is 
reported on a monthly basis measured against plan and prior year 
including a detailed explanation of major variances and on a daily 
basis, revenue, gross margin and cash flow, measured against plan 
and prior year are reported. The company and its subsidiaries have 
implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and 
accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential 
exposure to fraud. The group has clearly defined guidelines for capital 
expenditure and investment appraisal. These include annual plans, 
detailed appraisal and review procedures, authority levels and due 
diligence requirements when businesses are acquired. Any acquisition 
or disposal of a business needs formal board approval. The board 
reports that full procedures are in place to achieve compliance with 
the internal control aspects of the Code for the next financial period.
The output of these reviews form an important element of management 
reporting and a process is in place for monitoring the achievement 
of action plans together with the identification of new and emerging 
risks. An ongoing process of risk management and internal control 
in accordance with the Code has been in place for the financial 
year under review and up to the date of this report. The group 
views the careful management of risk as a key managerial activity in 
delivering business opportunities. The ethos of the group, delegation 
of responsibility and other control procedures together with accounting 
policies and procedures are communicated through the group and 
laid out in the group procedures manual, which is periodically 
updated, and the employment handbook which includes ethical 
standards expected of personnel. The integrity and competence of 
personnel is assessed during the recruitment process and monitored 
throughout employment.
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at 
all levels within the group. The group’s health and safety approach 
is supported by training programmes at operating businesses, group 
health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a high 
level of awareness and commitment. Individual businesses are assessed 
on a periodic basis, and remedial solutions implemented where 
necessary. Line management retain the responsibility for completion  
of action plans with progress being monitored and reported.
The Audit committee meets at least twice a year and in accordance 
with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness of the group’s 
systems of internal control. In accordance with the Code the board 
has undertaken an assessment of the need for a group internal audit 
function. The board considers that the control systems and procedures 
undertaken by the group are adequately performed by management 
and therefore does not currently propose to introduce a group internal 
audit function but will keep the matter under review.
This process has over the years identified a number of risks where 
action plans have been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate 
these risks (including the use of insurance where appropriate). 
The Corporate Governance report and the Audit committee report 
contained within have been approved by the board and are signed  
on its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
11 March 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 36
Remuneration Report 
Introduction
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration committee  
(“the committee”) on behalf of the board and in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority. 
The report is divided into two parts. The first part, which is not 
required to be audited, details the role of the committee and 
commentary on remuneration policy. The second part contains the 
remuneration review detailing directors’ and a former directors’ 
emoluments, share awards and options and pension arrangements 
that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory 
requirements.
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of the company’s 
policies on directors’ and senior executive managements’ remuneration 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 and, so far as practicable, for 
subsequent years as well, and to provide details of the remuneration 
of individual directors as determined by the committee. This report 
has been approved both by the committee and the board and, in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be asked 
to approve the report by way of a resolution that will be proposed at 
the AGM of the company on 17 June 2011, at which the Chairman  
of the committee will be available to answer any questions.
Unaudited information
Composition and role of the Remuneration committee
The members of the committee during the period under review, 
whose experience and other roles are set out in the biographies 
on page 22, are set out in the table below and comprise the three 
independent non-executive directors. The members have no personal 
financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, 
no potential conflicts of interest and, as independent non-executive 
directors, no day to day involvement in running the business. David 
Grove resigned as a director with effect from 17 March 2010 and 
Andrew Eastgate joined the committee on 17 May 2010 on his 
appointment as a non-executive director. The two other members 
served throughout both the period under review and the prior period.
The committee met four times during the year, members’ attendance 
being as set out below.
    Number of 
    meetings Meetings 
    attended during eligible 
Members during the year   the year to attend
Current directors
Mike O’Leary (Chairman)   4 4
Dick Peters   4 4
Andrew Eastgate   2 2
Former director
David Grove   1 1
The executive directors are invited to attend the committee’s meetings, 
when appropriate, in an advisory capacity, but are not present when 
their own remuneration is discussed. Meetings are attended by the 
Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the committee.
During the period under review the committee obtained independent 
advice from executive reward consultants, Hay Group. 
The committee is responsible for setting the framework and policy  
for the remuneration of the executive directors which it reviews 
annually for appropriateness and relevance. The terms of reference  
of the committee are available from the company on request and  
will be available on the company’s website during April 2011. 
It is also responsible for determining the specific elements of the 
executive directors’ and senior executive managements’ remuneration, 
performance targets, contractual terms and compensation arrangements. 
This is to ensure that on termination, contractual terms and payments 
are fair both to the company and to the individual so that failure is not 
rewarded and the duty to mitigate loss is recognised. In addition, the 
committee oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the group.
In implementing this policy, in addition to receiving advice from its 
external consultants, members attend seminars on the subject and review 
data and surveys from a variety of published sources with particular 
reference to the scale and composition of the total remuneration 
packages to executives.
In setting the remuneration of the executive directors and senior 
executive management, the committee takes into account the economic 
environment and financial performance of the group, along with pay 
and employment conditions of other group employees. In particular, the 
committee endorsed the proposal made by executive directors that pay 
rises in respect of executive directors remained frozen at their 2008 
levels and that pay rises in respect of the senior executive management 
were in line with the level of increases applied in 2011 to the wider 
employee population which averaged 2%.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37
Accounts
Remuneration Report 
continued
Remuneration policy
The objectives of the committee’s remuneration policy are to:
•	 	 ensure	that	the	remuneration	structure	motivates	the	executive	
directors and senior executive management to succeed and 
appropriately rewards them for their contribution to the attainment 
of	the	group’ s	shor t	and	long	ter m	results;
•	 	 maintain,	par ticularly	through	reward	schemes	based	on	
performance, a competitive package of pay and benefits which 
provides	the	motivation	for	future	achievement;
•	 	 facilitate	the	building	and	retention	of	a	high	calibre	and	focussed	
team which will work effectively to achieve the group’s longer term 
strategic	objectives;
•	 	 align	the	executive	directors’	and	senior	executive	management	
interests with those of shareholders by offering participation  
in schemes which provide opportunities to build shareholdings  
in	the	company;	and
•	 	 facilitate	ef fective	succession	planning.
The committee considers that a substantial proportion of the executive 
director’s remuneration should be variable and performance related 
in order to encourage and reward enhanced business performance 
and shareholder returns. The committee is satisfied that the incentive 
structure does not raise governance issues by inadvertently motivating 
or encouraging irresponsible or reckless behaviour.
In deciding the appropriate remuneration strategy for 2011 the 
committee has taken into account the group’s performance over the 
last year and the current economic environment. The committee will 
continue to monitor and review the remuneration policy to ensure 
that the remuneration structure and associated performance measures 
remain appropriately aligned with the group’s strategic objectives.  
The individual salary, bonus and benefit levels of the executive 
directors and senior executive management are and will continue  
to be reviewed annually by the committee.
Summary of Remuneration
The table below summarises the current components of executive 
remuneration and shows how they are aligned with the overall 
business strategy:
  Policy for executive directors and senior 
Component  executive management Purpose and link to business strategy
Salary - Reviewed annually - Market competitive salaries enable 
  - Benchmarked using data from a variety of published sources  the group to recruit and retain the 
     best talent
Annual bonus - Based on achieving stretching group profit before tax targets - Focus on improving profitability,
  - Maximum of 150% of base salary  in accordance with the group’s 
     strategic priorities 
    - Target setting ensures that maximum 
     bonuses are only available for the 
     delivery of above target growth 
     in earnings
2008 Co-investment Plan - Deferral of between 15% and 100% of annual bonus - Encourages retention and the making
  - Other funds can be invested under certain circumstances  of a personal financial commitment 
  - Up to 2 for 1 matching subject to stretching EPS and TSR targets - Assists in building and increasing 
     long term share ownership 
    - Alignment with long-term corporate 
     performance and shareholder returns 
    - Reduction of opportunity in 2010 to 
     reduce the cost to the company
Pension - The group provides an opportunity for its executive directors  - Market competitive arrangements enable
   and senior executive management to participate in occupational   the group to recruit and retain the best   
   arrangements  talent
Other benefits - Typically company car, medical insurance and life assurance cover - Provision of market typical benefits to 
     ensure the group attracts and retains  
     the best talent Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 38
Remuneration Report 
continued
Remuneration structure
Base salaries
As a general policy, base salaries reflect the committee’s assessment 
of the appropriate market rate for comparable positions and levels of 
responsibility and the individual executive’s experience, performance 
and value to the business. The committee also assesses pay and 
employment conditions of employees of the group when determining 
the executive directors’ remuneration. The committee reviews base 
salary annually with any change taking effect from 1 January.
The base salary of the executive directors and of the senior executive 
management remained unchanged in 2009 and 2010. With the 
exception of the executive directors, whose base salaries will continue 
to be unchanged for 2011, the committee has approved an average 
inflationary increase of 2% to base salaries for the group’s workforce. 
The exception to this increase will be where pay increases need to be 
granted to any employees whose basic salary is considerably behind 
the market or to individuals who are promoted to a more senior role. 
Annual performance bonus
The committee reviews the annual performance related bonus scheme 
to ensure that it remains competitive and, whilst stretching, continues 
to offer an incentive to the executive directors and senior executive 
management. The scheme focuses on annual objectives and links 
individual performance with a business financial target. The financial 
target is calculated by reference to the extent to which the group’s 
profit before tax meets the planned target. The committee establishes 
the objectives that must be attained for each financial year if a bonus 
is to be paid. These are designed to drive performance and to 
strengthen the alignment between the interests of shareholders and its 
senior management, whilst encouraging management retention.
In 2009 the annual performance bonus comprised an annual cash 
bonus based on the achievement of the group’s financial target, with 
an award of 77% of base salary being paid.
The performance related scheme for 2010 was similarly based  
on the achievement of a profit before tax target. Increasing profitability 
and cash management has been an area of major focus for the 
group over the last twelve months and the maximum bonus was only 
achievable for over-achievement against the target. In the event of 
underperformance of financial target, no bonus was to be awarded. 
Furthermore, the committee determined not to use discretion to make 
bonus awards for under performance.
For 2010, the committee is satisfied that the profit before tax target 
was exceeded and accordingly performance-related bonuses, 
including 22% of base salary in respect of over-achievement, were 
awarded to the executive directors as shown in the table on page 44. 
Bonus ranges for 2010 and 2011 and actual bonus outcome  
for 2010 as a percentage of salary
  Actual Maximum Target
  bonus bonus bonus 
Executive Director level opportunity level
Group Chief Executive 97% 150% 75%
Group Finance Director 97% 150% 77%
Chairman – – –
The performance related components of remuneration for executive 
directors and senior executive management are paid in March 
following the completion of the annual audit. 
For 2011, the annual performance bonus will comprise a  
cash bonus on the achievement of the group’s financial target.  
On achievement of the profit before tax target a bonus of 75% of 
base salary would be applicable and on attainment of 90% profit 
before tax target, a bonus based on 10%, with incremental attainment 
in between. The maximum of 150% of base salary will only be paid 
for achievement of performance of 28% or more above the profit 
before tax target. 
The bonus target for 2011 has been set at a level which is more 
demanding relative to 2010 using benchmarks that reflect both 
internal business objectives and external expectations. The committee 
is satisfied that the target is challenging and would represent  
an increase in group profit relative to 2010.
Share incentive arrangements
The committee is keen to encourage directors and key employees to 
increase their shareholdings in the company, so aligning their interests 
with the company’s shareholders. The committee recognises the 
importance of share incentives in recruiting and retaining directors 
and employees on whose performance the success of the company 
depends. The share incentive arrangements are also key in providing 
a link between rewards to executive directors and senior executive 
management and sustainable, long-term financial performance. It is 
also worth noting that the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director have significant personal shareholdings which enhance their 
alignment with investors.
The company has adopted five share plans. In June 2002 the company 
adopted the Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme which is open to all 
eligible employees on the same basis, providing a long-term savings 
and investment opportunity.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
Accounts
Remuneration Report 
continued
In June 2008 the company adopted the Headlam Group Co-
Investment Plan 2008 (“CIP”) and the Headlam Group Performance 
Share Plan 2008 (“PSP”). Shareholders also authorised the adoption 
of the Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 
2008 and the Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option 
Scheme 2008, both being market value share option plans (“ESOS”). 
The CIP and PSP are intended to be the main incentive vehicles for 
executive directors and senior executive management with awards 
intended to be made on an annual basis. However, the committee  
has not yet implemented the PSP and it does not intend to do 
so during 2011. The ESOS are intended to be used to reward 
employees below the board and it is not the current intention to 
grant awards under the ESOS to executive directors. The executive 
directors are also eligible to participate in the Headlam Group 
Sharesave Scheme, an all employee SAYE scheme. For those options 
and awards subject to a performance target, determination that the 
conditions have been met is made by the committee once the relevant 
EPS and TSR figures are known for the relevant financial year and 
targets are tested only once. 
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the “CIP”) 
The CIP provides for the grant of matching share awards in the  
form of a non-transferable nil-cost option to acquire existing shares.  
A matching share award may be made to participants of up to  
twice the number of shares that would have been acquired with the 
pre-tax amount of bonus or other funds that they are invited to apply  
to acquire shares. 
At the discretion of the committee, participants may be invited to take 
not less than 15% and up to 100% of their annual bonus in the form 
of shares, the net amount after income tax and employees national 
insurance being used to acquire shares. If no annual bonus is paid  
in a year, the committee may permit investment of other funds but 
subject to a maximum of 50% of any bonus paid in the preceding 
year. In the first year that an award is made, the participant may 
apply shares which they already hold with the requisite market value. 
It is currently intended that awards will be satisfied by the transfer 
of shares from an employee share trust, such shares having been 
acquired by the trust on the market. 
Subject to the satisfaction in full or part of performance targets,  
an award will normally be exercisable at least three years after  
the award date however cannot be exercised more than ten years 
after the award date. 
Performance targets are measured over a fixed period of three 
years, beginning not earlier than the year in which an award is 
made. Performance targets are a mix of EPS growth targets and 
total shareholder return (“TSR”) targets against the FTSE 250 index 
(excluding investment trusts) with 50% of the award determined by 
the EPS growth targets and 50% by the TSR targets. The committee 
considers that achieving real EPS growth in the medium term is of 
paramount importance for the long-term success of the business and 
has therefore decided to continue to base 50% of the award on this 
metric. In addition, 50% of the award is based on TSR against a wide 
range of companies to ensure that directors only receive the maximum 
payouts available under the plan if the group significantly outperforms 
the general market. 
The committee carefully considered using a specific comparator  
group rather than a broad index. However, on balance, it considered 
that due to the nature of the group’s operations, it would be difficult  
to construct an appropriate comparator group. The FTSE 250 index 
had been chosen as it was a relevant broad based equity index in 
which the group had over a number of years predominantly been  
a constituent member. To the extent that future awards contain a TSR 
target, the FTSE Small Cap index may be selected, if relevant. 
Vesting of the TSR and EPS elements under the CIP and PSP
TSR ranking  Matching under Vesting under 
of the group the CIP the PSP*
Below median None  0%
Median 1 for 1 matching 30%
Upper quartile 2 for 1 matching 100%
Between median  
 and upper quartile Straight line matching Straight line vesting
Vesting of the EPS element under the CIP and PSP
EPS growth  Matching under Vesting under 
relative to RPI the CIP the PSP*
Less than RPI+3% p.a. None  0%
RPI+3% p.a. 1 for 1 matching 30%
RPI+6% p.a. 2 for 1 matching 100%
Between median  
 and upper quartile Straight line matching Straight line vesting
*The PSP has not been implemented.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 40
Remuneration Report 
continued
In October 2010 awards were granted under the CIP to the executive 
directors and senior executive management which were subject to 
the TSR and EPS performance targets described above. The awards 
were determined by reference to prior year bonus with matching 
share awards of up to 2 for 1, dependent on achievement of the 
performance targets. As this was the first award made under the 
scheme there was provision for existing shareholdings to be used  
by participants for matching purposes as approved by shareholders  
at the 2010 AGM. 
Proposed changes to the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 
(the “CIP”) 
Before the 2010 awards were granted under the CIP, the 
Remuneration committee accepted the recommendation made by the 
executive directors to reduce the award by 75%, to 25% of salary 
in order to reduce the cost for the company. The executives were 
therefore not able to take full advantage of the first year opportunity  
of using existing shares to fund the arrangement.
The company is therefore proposing an amendment to the rules of the 
CIP at the AGM on 17 June 2011 to allow executives to use further 
existing shares for future awards retaining the overall cap of 100% of 
2008 base salary, which is consistent with the arrangement originally 
approved by shareholders. Further details of the proposals can be 
found in the Notice to the meeting on pages 106 and 112. 
The committee believes that the executive director’s recommendation 
to scale back the first year opportunity and the proposed amendment 
to the rules of the CIP are in the best interests of the company and its 
shareholders for the following reasons:
•	 	 the	cost	of	the	award	in	2010	is	reduced	to	25%	of	base	salar y .
•	 	 the	proposals	do	not	increase	the	overall	level	of	awards	to	
executive directors and other participants in the form of matching 
shares. 
•	 the	CIP	is	currently	the	company’ s	only	long-ter m	incentive	vehicle.
•	 	 the	committee	has	not	yet	implemented	the	2008	PSP	nor	does	 
it intend to do so during 2011 and it has not granted any option 
awards under the 2008 Option Schemes.  
•	 executive	directors	are	required	to	commit	shares	to	the	CIP	in		
 order to receive matching awards of shares. This commitment 
 is greater than established UK market practice for executive  
 directors to be eligible for long-term incentive awards without  
 the need to commit any of their own shares or funds. 
Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 (the “PSP”)
The PSP provides for the grant of non-transferable awards, in the  
form of nil cost options, to acquire existing shares. It is currently 
intended that awards will be satisfied by the transfer of shares  
from an employee share trust, such shares having been acquired  
by the trust on the market. 
Whilst selected directors and employees are eligible to participate 
at the discretion of the committee, it is intended only the executive 
directors and senior executive management will participate in the  
PSP. The aggregate market value of shares over which an award  
may normally be made to a participant in any year may not exceed 
their basic annual salary however awards may be made in excess  
of this limit in circumstances the committee deems exceptional.  
Subject to the satisfaction in full or part of performance targets,  
an award will normally be exercisable at least three years after  
the award date however cannot be exercised more than ten years 
after the award date. 
Under the rules of the plan, performance targets are to be measured 
over a fixed period of three years, beginning not earlier than the year 
in which an award is made. Performance targets are to be a mix  
of EPS growth targets and total shareholder return (“TSR”) against  
an appropriate index. Subject to committee approval before awards 
are granted, awards made in the 2008 year were to be split with 
50% determined by EPS growth targets and 50% by the TSR targets. 
The targets that would have applied to the original award are those 
described on page 39 and are the same as those that apply to any 
awards under the CIP. 
To date there have been no options granted under this scheme.  
It is not the current intention of the committee to implement the PSP  
for the executive directors in 2011. 
Headlam Group Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option 
Schemes 2008 
The schemes are respectively an HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) 
approved discretionary share option scheme and a non-HMRC 
approved discretionary share option scheme which provide for the 
grant of non-transferrable options to acquire ordinary shares in the 
company by way of purchase or subscription to eligible employees. 
It is intended the executive directors and senior executive management 
will not participate in these schemes. 
The exercise price of an option cannot be less than the market value 
of a share, or in the case of subscription, not less than the share’s 
nominal value. Options may normally be exercised three years after 
the grant date subject to the satisfaction in full or part of performance 
targets however cannot be exercised more than ten years after the 
grant date. 
On adoption of the schemes in 2008, the performance target for 
options granted in the first year was to be earnings per share (“EPS”) 
growth against growth in the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) over a three 
year performance period, measured on a scaling basis. To date there 
have been no options granted under either of these schemes. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41
Accounts
Remuneration Report 
continued
Headlam Group Executive Approved and Unapproved Share Option 
Schemes 1998
As set out in the analysis of share options on page 45, there remain 
capable of exercise options granted in 2005. The performance 
targets for options granted under the 1998 Share Option Schemes 
are based on the extent to which growth in the group’s earnings 
per share (“EPS”) exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) 
over a three-year performance period, EPS being calculated as fully 
diluted earnings per share. In respect of the approved scheme EPS 
growth must exceed RPI growth by 3% pa or more over the three year 
performance period. In respect of the unapproved scheme, for options 
up to one times eligible earnings, EPS growth must exceed RPI growth 
by 3% pa or more over the three year performance period and by 5% 
or more over the three year performance period for options granted 
of between one times and two times eligible earnings. The committee 
felt that these performance conditions were appropriate at the time the 
options were granted.
Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 
Under the scheme, options may be granted at up to a 20% discount 
to market price at the date of grant. Options may not normally be 
exercisable until the option holder has completed their three or five 
year savings contract. With the exception of non-executive directors, 
all employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to 
participate in the scheme. Awards were granted to UK eligible 
employees, excluding executive directors, during the year. 
Dilution
The committee is aware of, and supports, the ABI guidelines regarding 
dilution and regularly monitors compliance with these requirements. 
The committee included provisions which limit the number of newly 
issued shares which can be granted in a 10 year period to 10% of 
the issued share capital under all employee schemes and 5% under 
the discretionary share plans.
As at the date of this report, the company’s usage of shares against 
the limits detailed above in respect of the all employee schemes 
was 4% of the issued share capital and in respect of grants under 
discretionary plans was 2% of issued capital. It is the intention that 
options exercised under the SAYE scheme and the two executive share 
option schemes are satisfied by shares held in treasury. With regard to 
the PSP and the CIP it is the committee’s intention is to make purchases 
of shares through a trust, if required, taking into account the likelihood 
of any performance targets being met and also potential lapsing of 
awards when employees leave employment. 
Further information on share-based payments is set out in note 20 to 
the Financial Statements. 
Other benefits
Executive directors receive taxable benefits comprising a company  
car and fuel, lump sum life assurance for death-in-service cover and 
non-contributory private medical insurance, which provides benefits 
similar to those applicable in comparable companies.
Retirement benefits
Tony Brewer currently participates in the Headlam Group Staff Retirement 
Benefits Scheme, the defined benefit plan operated by the group, on 
a non-contributory basis. Details regarding participation in the defined 
benefit pension plan are given on page 44 and 45.
Service contracts
The current policy is for executive directors’ service contract notice 
periods to be normally no longer than twelve months. The service 
contracts of the executive directors’ have no fixed term but provide  
that either the director or the company may terminate the employment 
by giving twelve months’ written notice and that the company may 
pay compensation in lieu of notice. The company recognises however 
that it may be necessary in the case of new executive appointments to 
offer an initial longer notice period, which would subsequently reduce 
to one year after the expiry of that period. All future appointments  
to the board will comply with this requirement.
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a 
change of control clause. It is the company’s policy to ensure that any 
payments made to a director in the event of the early termination of  
a service agreement reflect the circumstances giving rise to termination 
and, where considered appropriate, the obligation of the outgoing 
director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration is given to 
making compensation payments in instalments and is conditional on 
the leaver’s employment and earnings status. The service agreements 
of the executive directors who served during the financial period were 
entered into on 11 October 2005.
The Chairman does not hold a service contract and does not 
participate in the company’s executive share schemes, incentive plans 
or pension schemes. Additionally, he is not a member of the various 
committees of the board.
The service agreements of the continuing directors are available for 
inspection at the registered office of the company during normal 
business hours on each business day.
Details of individual director’s remuneration and share incentives are 
set out on pages 44 to 46. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 42
Remuneration Report 
continued
External appointments of executive directors
The board believes that experience of other companies’ practices 
and challenges is valuable both for the personal development of its 
executive directors and for the company. It is therefore the company’s 
policy to allow each executive director to accept one non-executive 
directorship of another company, although the board retains the 
discretion to vary this policy. Fees received by executive directors 
in respect of external non-executive appointments are retained by 
the individual director. Graham Waldron retired as non-executive 
Chairman of Tandem Group plc on 21 June 2010 and Steve  
Wilson retired as non-executive Chairman of Synergy Health PLC  
on 22 September 2010, their fees in the year being £58,333  
and £48,879 respectively.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service agreements but 
instead are appointed for an initial period of three years by letter of 
appointment which is terminable by either party subject to one month’s 
notice, for which no compensation is payable. Letters of appointment 
of the non-executive directors are available on application to the 
Company Secretary. At the end of the initial period, the company 
discusses with the non-executive director whether they wish to renew 
their appointment and whether it is in the best interests of the company 
for their appointment to be renewed. Such renewal would normally be 
for a further period of three years, subject to termination as aforesaid. 
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year 
terms, although the board may invite them to serve for an additional 
period. All appointments and subsequent re-appointment is subject to 
approval by shareholders.
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed by the board annually by 
reference to prevailing market conditions and at a level which will 
attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make 
a positive contribution to the group’s affairs. The annual fees were 
reviewed with effect from 1 January and remained unchanged at 
£35,000, with an additional £5,000 being paid to the respective 
chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees. Non-executive 
directors are not involved in any discussion or decision about their 
own remuneration nor do they participate in any of the company’s 
share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes. The aggregate 
limit for fees paid to non-executive directors is laid down in the 
articles. Mike O’Leary has been designated Senior Independent 
Director for which he receives no additional fees.
Most recent re-election dates 
The table below shows the dates of appointment and the most recent 
re-election dates for directors.
   Date of last 
  Date of re-election  
Name of director appointment at an AGM
Executive Directors  
Graham Waldron June 1991 June 2010
Tony Brewer June 1991 June 2008
Steve Wilson December 1991 June 2009
  
Non-executive Directors  
Dick Peters December 2005 June 2010
Mike O’Leary March 2006 June 2009
Andrew Eastgate May 2010 –
Directors’ share interests
It is the company’s policy that executive directors are required to hold 
shares in the company equivalent in value to once time’s base salary, 
newly appointed directors being expected to build their holding over 
a five year period. The executive directors each hold shares that 
significantly exceed this minimum requirement. 
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R, the beneficial interests of 
directors and their connected persons, as required by Section 822  
of the Companies Act 2006, who held office at the end of the year  
in the ordinary shares of the company, were:
  Shareholdings at Shareholdings at 
  31 December 2010 31 December 2009
Executive Directors  
Graham Waldron 360,638 360,638
Tony Brewer 519,942 519,942
Steve Wilson 400,770 400,770
  
Non-executive Directors  
Dick Peters 5,000 5,000
Mike O’Leary – –
Andrew Eastgate – –
There were no changes in the beneficial interests of the directors in the 
company’s shares between 31 December 2010 and 11 March 2011.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
Accounts
Remuneration Report 
continued
Audited information
The Remuneration Report from page 36 to page 43 up to this statement has not been audited. From this point until the end of the report on page 46 
the disclosures have been audited by the company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
Performance graph
The following graph shows the group’s performance on a holding of £100 in the company’s shares for the five year period to 31 December 2010 
measured by total shareholder return (“TSR”), compared with the performance of the FTSE SmallCap index also measured by TSR, which is defined  
as share price growth, plus re-invested dividends. 
The FTSE SmallCap index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a relevant broad based equity 
index in which the group is a constituent member. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Total shareholder return
 5 Year Return Index for FTSE Small Cap as at 31 December 2010
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Source: Thomson Financial
Headlam Group plc
FTSE Small Cap
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 44
Remuneration Report 
continued
Directors’ remuneration
The following section provides details of the remuneration, pension and share interests of the directors for their services as directors of the group  
for the year ended 31 December 2010.
    Performance 
  Salary and fees Benefits related pay Total
  2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors        
Tony Brewer 520 520 35 35 504 392 1,059 947
Steve Wilson 376 376 31 28 364 291 771 695
Graham Waldron 115 115 19 26 – – 134 141
        
Non-executive directors        
Andrew Eastgate (ii) 22 – – – – – 22 –
David Grove (i) 8 35 – – – – 8 35
Mike O’Leary 40 40 – – – – 40 40
Dick Peters 40 40 – – – – 40 40
  1,121 1,126 85 89 868 683 2,074 1,898
(i) David Grove resigned from the board on 17 March 2010
(ii) Andrew Eastgate was appointed on 17 May 2010
Benefits are in respect of all taxable benefits arising from employment by the company including the provision of a company car and fuel, life 
assurance cover and private medical insurance. Pension benefits and gains made by executive directors in respect of share options are excluded 
from the table above.
Pension benefits 
Tony Brewer participates in the group’s defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits at a normal retirement age of fifty five based  
upon pensionable service. The maximum pension payable under the scheme is equivalent to an amount that would not result in any additional  
tax charge being payable under HMRC rules. There are lump sum death-in-service benefits and pension provisions for members’ dependents. 
Benefit accrual in respect of Steve Wilson ceased on 20 August 2009 on reaching normal retirement age.
Details of executive directors’ pension benefits for the year ended 31 December 2010 are shown below:
    Accumulated  Accumulated
  Increase in  accrued pension Change in accrued pension
  accrued pension Transfer value at 31 December accrued pension at 31 December
  during the year of increase 2010 over the year 2009
  £000 £000 £000pa £000pa £000pa
Tony Brewer 6 133 74 6 68
Steve Wilson* – – – – 81
*Steve Wilson transferred his benefits out of the scheme on 14 October 2010 and as such had no benefit in the scheme on 31 December 2010.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
Accounts
Remuneration Report 
continued
The increase in the accrued pension during the year excludes any increase due to inflation of the accumulated accrued pension at the start of the 
year. The change in accrued pension over the year includes any increase due to inflation of the accumulated accrued pension at the start of the 
year. As the Section 52a Order for 2010 reflects there being no inflation over the year, the increase in accrued pension and change in accrued 
pension values are equal. 
    Transfer value of Change in Transfer value of
    accrued pension at transfer value accrued pension at
    31 December 2010 over the year 31 December 2009
    £000 £000pa £000
Tony Brewer   1,624 244 1,380
Steve Wilson   – – 2,204
Directors’ interests in share option schemes
Matching share awards under the CIP were granted for nil consideration on 7 October 2010 when the price of an ordinary share was 312 
pence. The awards are subject to the performance conditions as outlined in the policy section with an exercise price of an aggregate £1 for  
all the matching award shares.
Details of executive directors’ interests in the SAYE scheme, executive share option schemes and CIP are set out below, a description of which  
is given on pages 39 to 41:
  Options Options Options Options Options   
  held at granted cancelled exercised held at 31 Exercise Date from 
  1 January during during during December price which  
  2010 the year the year the year 2010 (pence) exercisable Expiry date
Tony Brewer        
1998 USOS (i) 342,858 – – – 342,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142 – – – 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 7,043 – – – 7,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
CIP (iv) – 98,859 – – 98,859 nil Oct 2013 Oct 2020
Steve Wilson        
1998 USOS (i) 242,858 – – – 242,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142 – – – 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 7,043 – – – 7,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
CIP (iv) – 71,388 – – 71,388 nil Oct 2013 Oct 2020
Graham Waldron        
Sharesave (iii) 4,117 – – – 4,117 222.20 Jul 2012 Jan 2013
 
(i)  Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 USOS) 
Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 40.
(ii)  Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 ESOS) 
Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 40.
(iii)  Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 (Sharesave) 
Details of the operation of the scheme are provided on page 41.
(iv)  Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (CIP) 
Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on pages 39 and 40.
The mid market closing price of a Headlam Group plc ordinary share on 31 December 2010, the last trading day of the financial year,  
was 313.50p and the price range during the year was 225.00p to 345.00p, with an average price of 283.65p. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 46
Remuneration Report 
continued
Gains made by directors
The aggregate amount of gains made by executive directors on the exercise of share options was £nil (2009: £nil).
Register of directors interests
The register of interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors’ shareholdings and options. There were no changes  
in the options held by the directors between 31 December 2010 and 11 March 2011.
Savings related share options scheme
The company operates an Inland Revenue approved all employee savings related share option scheme in the UK. The scheme is designed to 
provide a long-term savings and investment opportunity for employees and is described on page 41. On 21 May 2010, the company granted 
options under its savings related share option scheme for terms of between three and five years at an option price of 251.00p per share, 
representing a 20% discount to market price. A total of 118 employees were granted options over a total number of 158,908 shares.
This report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by
Mike O’Leary
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 March 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
Accounts
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
The company has a duty to our shareholders to consider social and 
environmental issues that could affect our business. We are committed 
to managing our business in a socially responsible manner and 
our aim is to continually improve our management of the social, 
environmental and economic issues within our control or influence 
throughout the business and our supply network. 
Our programme is designed to address the importance of corporate 
social responsibility (“CSR”) issues that we face, to encourage and 
facilitate appropriate management behaviour and be aligned with 
the group’s business strategy taking proper account of the morale 
and welfare of our employees, the satisfaction of our customers and 
our impact on the environment. The proper management of CSR also 
makes good business sense resulting in strategic, commercial and 
reputational benefits.
Like many businesses, our stakeholders are many and diverse, 
including our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, the 
local community, government and non-governmental organisations. 
Communication with our stakeholders is considered to be an essential 
part of our business and we aim to be open and transparent in all that 
we do.
The group has reviewed its ongoing CSR policy to ensure that it 
meets the needs of the markets and communities in which it operates. 
We communicate our results and prospects to our shareholders in an 
accurate and timely manner using a variety of channels. In addition to 
the AGM, we communicate through our Annual Report and Accounts, 
Interim report, Interim Management Statements and trading updates. 
All of these documents are available on our website at www.headlam.
com. Significant matters relating to trading and the development of the 
business are disseminated to the market by way of announcements via 
a regulatory information service and those announcements appear as 
soon as practicable on our website. In addition face to face meetings 
are held with our major institutional shareholders to both assist them 
with their understanding of the announcements but also to ensure that 
the board is aware of their views and concerns.
Our commitment to CSR is communicated to employees through  
our employee handbook and through our group procedures manual. 
These both include the requirement for employees to undertake to 
act ethically and responsibly in all of our business dealings with 
stakeholders and include our ethics, fraud and whistle blowing 
policies, which are communicated to employees. We do not  
permit bribery, anti-competition or corrupt practices in any dealings. 
We are committed to continuous improvements in all aspects of CSR  
– our policies, our systems, our performance and our reporting.
Our management structure allows the consideration of social and 
environmental factors by individual businesses within the group and  
at a group level. We continue to foster our relationships with our 
external stakeholders. We aim to manage our relationships with 
our stakeholders and communicate with them professionally and 
responsibly. Our approach towards charitable donations and our 
support in local communities is set out in the Director’s Report.
We have continued to make positive moves in our use of natural 
resources, waste and energy management, health and safety and staff 
development and welfare.
Health and safety
Health and safety is at the heart of our corporate responsibility. 
Protecting our employees, contractors and visitors from injury is a 
fundamental part of our business. We are committed to developing 
and maintaining a positive health and safety culture in which statutory 
requirements are viewed as a minimum and continually strive for 
improvement. The group has developed its health and safety policy 
over a number of years, applying it to the specific circumstances 
appertaining to our individual businesses and amending it as changes 
are considered appropriate. 
The policy is endorsed by the board which receives an annual 
presentation on health and safety matters with updates on a more 
frequent basis where considered necessary. The annual update 
includes a detailed review on health and safety issues at each trading 
location and the progress made in improving our performance where 
recommendations regarding improvements have been received 
following annual, or where changes to operations have occurred, 
more frequent inspections. These reports also outline planned health 
and safety initiatives intended to improve standards and comment  
on potential future legislative and best practice developments  
and challenges.
The policy seeks to ensure that the group’s operations are carried out 
at all times in compliance with the relevant health and safety guidance 
in the jurisdictions in which we operate and to ensure the health and 
safety at work of employees and all persons likely to be affected, 
including contractors, customers, staff and members of the public 
where appropriate.
All businesses undergo health and safety audits by an external body 
and the measures by which we judge satisfactory outcome are 
continually reviewed and the standards raised. Each business in 
the UK, receives a comprehensive (bespoke to the location) health 
and safety manual for use as a source of information, guidance and 
training together with a set of compliance documentation which is 
reviewed, and updated as necessary, on not less than an annual 
basis.
In the UK, relevant health and safety information and guidance 
forms part of our induction process and managers are guided and 
supported in risk assessment techniques. Good practice guides setting 
out the important Do’s and Don’ts associated with many of the roles 
and duties undertaken by employees, in conjunction with one to one 
training, support the job specific training undertaken with employees, 
including periodic refresher training. During the year employee 
training packs have been reviewed and their scope expanded.
Health and safety committees are promoted at all sites with 
representation from the various business departments, meeting on  
a periodic basis and co-ordinated by the health and safety manager 
on site. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
continued
The value of employee participation in delivering this commitment 
is recognised and management teams are encouraged to create a 
supportive culture. To achieve this we endeavour to ensure that we:
•	 	 continue	to	improve	health	and	safety	systems,	procedures	 
and guidance
•	 make	personnel	aware	of	this	policy
•	 maintain	high	standards	of	health	and	safety
•	 maintain	a	consistent	repor ting	structure
•	 provide	adequate	resources
Training in health and safety includes an awareness of impending 
changes in relevant legislation and other specialist subjects. The 
consistent approach taken throughout the group, with the group policy 
being tailored and introduced into recently acquired businesses, 
improves our governance. Courses provided by external assessors 
complement in house forklift truck training undertaken on a one to 
one basis. During the year, local management responsible for health 
and safety successfully completed the Institute of Safety and Health 
Managing Safely Course.
Our commercial drivers attended a day’s training in compliance with 
the continuing professional competence scheme (“CPC”), which was 
introduced in 2010 and supervised by an external training provider. 
The scheme introduced a requirement for five days CPC training in a 
five year period, which the group has chosen to undertake on a one 
day a year basis. The subject matter in 2010 included an update 
on tachograph regulations, daily vehicle checks, manual handling, 
including the use of equipment provided, and what to do in the event 
of an accident. CPC training in 2011 will include drivers working 
time and associated tachograph usage, defensive driving and fuel 
efficient techniques. 
Good relationships are maintained with Health and Safety and 
Environmental Health regulators in the areas in which we operate with 
positive and prompt responses to any findings and/or observations 
following compliance inspections. 
The continual development of our policies and procedures has  
resulted in some minor modifications to our control and inspection 
procedures. Whilst we continue to aim for lower levels, the current  
low frequency of accidents experienced reflects the success of our 
health and safety policies. In 2010 there were eighteen reportable 
accidents made to the Health and Safety Executive, none of which 
resulted in serious injury, with no prosecutions for breaches of health 
and safety or enforcement actions in the year. We investigate 
all reportable accidents and in the minority of instances where 
improvement is required, changes are implemented in a timely 
manner. 
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe working 
environment with the appropriate working practices and training, this 
can only be achieved if employees equally give their commitment to a 
rigorous health and safety culture. We continue to undertake periodic 
refresher training to ensure that this is kept at the forefront. Investment 
in automated dispatch sortation equipment has significantly reduced 
manual handling where they have been installed.
Audit, inspection and accident report findings are reviewed with 
action plans produced as necessary to ensure continual improvement 
in our management of health and safety. 
Our people
Good relations and communications with employees are essential 
to the continued success of our business and we seek to provide 
an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed. Our 
employees’ wellbeing and professional development is central to 
recruiting and retaining high performing individuals. Our people seek 
to deliver their best for the business, which combined with a fair and 
responsible way of doing business, generates a common ambition to 
add value.
The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is safe 
and environmentally sound and which complies with applicable laws 
and regulations. The group expects employees to respect confidential 
information, company time and assets and believes in open and 
honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities. The 
group supports the fundamental principles of good governance.
The board values two-way communication between the business unit 
management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare of the 
business including regular senior management visits to operating units.
The group’s Annual Report and Accounts is available to staff which 
provides employees with a greater awareness of the group’s 
performance as well as the financial and economic factors that affect 
it. In addition, those employees who are eligible are also able to 
benefit from the group’s performance through participation in share 
schemes, including a savings related share scheme.
It is the group’s policy that employment opportunities, training, career 
development and promotion should be available to all, irrespective of 
age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability. Due consideration is 
given to applications for employment, having regard to the particular 
aptitudes and abilities of the applicants. We treat our responsibilities 
under the Disability Discrimination Act seriously. Any employee who 
develops a disability during employment is given the opportunity to 
retrain for alternative employment where practicable, given the nature 
of the group’s activities. 
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them and on the various factors affecting the performance  
of the group. It is the group’s continued practice to maintain employee 
participation and involvement in matters which affect their interests 
through formal and informal meetings. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49
Accounts
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
continued
Recruitment, training and development is designed to ensure the group 
has suitably skilled and qualified employees to meet the operational 
needs of the business and offer the opportunity for employees to 
develop and grow. The group is firmly committed to developing the 
potential of its people and regularly reviews its succession planning 
processes. Training is delivered primarily through internal resources 
with assistance from external providers as and when required. 
Employee turnover remains low resulting in a stable employee base. 
We participate in work experience placement schemes. 
The group considers it important that its employees provide for 
their retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them 
to participate in retirement plans. A group life assurance scheme 
provides death in service benefits.
Environmental
We continue to reduce each of CO 2 emissions, fuel consumption 
and vehicle emissions, the amount of waste sent to landfill, the 
amount of packaging and water consumption. We have continued to 
improve recycling rates and encourage the use of pollution prevention 
initiatives.
As a wholesale distributor of floorcoverings and associated products, 
we operate a number of distribution facilities in the UK, France, 
Switzerland and the Netherlands. Whilst we operate specialist 
tables for the cutting of up to five metre broadloom carpets, we 
process rather than manufacture. We are therefore not a significant 
consumer of electricity, gas or water, the consumption of which 
we seek to reduce through the introduction on repair, renewal or 
installation of energy or water efficient techniques and equipment. 
Our electrical requirement is predominantly in respect of fork lift truck 
battery charging, the operation of the cutting tables and associated 
mechanical handling and compressed air equipment, office and 
warehouse lighting and office equipment. Our requirement for gas is 
predominantly in respect of office heating and limited localised radiant 
heating within the warehouse. Water consumption is predominantly 
is respect of employee welfare and commercial vehicle washing. 
The majority of our water charges are in respect of fixed water 
rates relating to water discharge from business locations. Actual 
cost of electricity, gas and water charges in 2010 amounted to 
0.22% of revenue. Group electricity consumption, where supplied 
through half hourly meters, required registration under the carbon 
reduction commitment scheme that came into effect in 2010, but not 
compliance. The introduction of automated meter reading is being 
considered in respect of sites with non-half hourly water meters.
When we invest in new facilities, we incorporate modern energy 
efficient construction techniques and products. It is expected that future 
projects will incorporate renewable energy solutions and intelligent 
lighting systems. Due to the nature of our business and with our 
proactive approach when planning and developing new facilities, 
we believe that our activities generally have a low impact on the 
environment, with no environmental legal or compliance issues arising 
during the year.
The group has a policy to replace the commercial and motor  
vehicles it operates every five and three years respectively, so 
improving operational efficiencies and reducing operating costs  
and vehicle emissions. In line with European Emissions Directives,  
Euro 4 emission standards for commercial vehicles were introduced  
in October 2006. This aims to improve the levels of Carbon 
Monoxide, Hydrocarbon, Nitrogen Oxide and particulate emissions 
that cause harm to the environment. As a result of the five yearly 
replacement cycle, all of our commercial vehicles comply with  
Euro 4 emissions standards. Our fleet requirements are evaluated  
on a continual basis so as to ensure the optimum design of transport  
to maximise capacity and improve aerodynamics. In relation to 
company cars, a number of our businesses have either completed  
or have committed to completing smarter driving courses with the  
aim of improving energy efficient driving. 
Our operations predominantly create waste materials in the form  
of protective plastic wrapping, cardboard and wooden pallets.  
We continue to sort the plastic and cardboard in discreet types  
and, with the use of baler units that we have invested in over the last 
few years, dispatch these to specialist re-processing agents. This has 
allowed us to significantly reduce the amount of our waste going to 
landfill and the number of vehicles on the road to collect our waste.
Wooden pallets are recycled where possible or sent to specialist 
re-processors. In addition we recycle the cardboard poles that are 
used in the centre of rolls of carpet and vinyl until they are no longer 
capable of being re-used. In these ways we have further reduced 
the amount of waste that is sent to landfill sites. Guidance on waste 
management is issued to the managers of the individual businesses  
to increase awareness of the need to control waste.
Where appropriate, wrapping and packing materials are sourced 
from manufacturers where a high proportion of recycled materials  
are used.
We have reviewed containment and inspection regimes in higher 
risk areas such as fuel and lubrication stores, compressors and fork 
lift truck battery charging areas, following which fire risk protection 
was improved through increased training and awareness and the 
installation of special containers remote from the main buildings  
for the storage of flammable products. 
We seek to maintain good relationships with national and local 
regulatory organisations such as the Environment Agency and 
Environmental Health Departments in the UK. We regularly review 
regulatory issues and processes are in place to keep up to date. Staff 
training in health, safety and environmental matters, the frequency and 
cost associated with which is growing, is important and is reviewed 
annually as part of normal appraisal processes.
The group continues to use paper recycling and shredding initiatives 
and has introduced recycling bins for the segregation of aluminium 
cans, plastics and general waste, having a beneficial impact on the 
amount recycled. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 50
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
continued
Achieving sustained growth and profitability
There are a number of key areas whilst seeking to achieve the group’s 
goal of sustained growth and profitability in future years, which will 
assist in attaining the financial objectives at the same time as meeting 
our corporate social responsibility obligations.
Through improving our understanding and control of our supply chain, 
we continue to investigate the benefits from using green specification 
guides and modify our strategy accordingly. We continue to work with 
suppliers to ensure products are supplied from renewable sources, 
including recycled products, and that their manufacturing processes 
fairly reward employees and do not seek to exploit. Representatives 
from our businesses visit supplier premises on a periodic basis to view 
manufacturing conditions to ensure as far as possible that adequate 
standards are operated.
We place great importance on effectively managing our operations 
to minimise the likelihood of adverse impact. We proactively manage 
our facilities to minimise energy consumption utilising energy efficient 
lighting and heating. Our new sites are subjected to an environmental 
assessment prior to any construction taking place. This allows solutions 
to any identified environmental issues to be incorporated into the 
planning process, the most recent proposals including the application 
of underground heat pumps, rain water attenuation and the potential 
of solar power. Recognising that development can be potentially 
damaging, we seek to minimise energy consumption during the 
construction of new premises and the effects on the environment. 
Wherever possible, subject to the operating constraints of the 
business, existing trees and vegetation are retained and augmented  
as necessary. Existing sites are maintained in a tidy condition  
to minimise ecological impact.
We recognise that our business operations will be around for many 
years, having an impact on future generations, and to this end we 
work with local authorities to design new facilities which not only 
comply with guidelines but seek to blend in with their surroundings 
through the careful use of quality materials, landscaping and design 
features. We support the desire to see development take place 
in sustainable locations and we work with transport consultants to 
formulate green travel plans incorporating car sharing schemes and 
provision for bicycles when designing new facilities. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51
Accounts
Independent Auditors Report
to the members of Headlam Group plc
We have audited the Financial Statements of Headlam Group plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2010. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
EU and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 28, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion 
on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
 
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
•	 the	Financial	Statements	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and 
of	the	group’ s	profit	for	the	year	then	ended;
•	 the	Financial	Statements	have	been	properly	prepared	in	
accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	EU;		
•	 the	company	Financial	Statements	have	been	properly	prepared	
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in 
accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006;	and	
•	 the	Financial	Statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 R e m u n e r a t i o n 	 R e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s 	 b e e n	
p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n i e s 	 A c t 	 2 0 0 6 ;	
•	 the	infor mation	given	in	the	Directors’	Repor t	for	the	financial	year	
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with 
the	Financial	Statements;	and
•	 infor mation	given	in	the	Corporate	Gover nance	Statement	set	
out on pages 29 to 35 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial 
Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	company ,	
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches	not	visited	by	us;	or
•	 the	company	Financial	Statements	and	the	par t	of	the	directors’	
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting	records	and	retur ns;	or
•	 cer tain	disclosures	of	directors’	remuneration	specified	by	law	are	
not	made;	or
•	 we	have	not	received	all	the	infor mation	and	explanations	we	
require	for	our	audit;	or
•	 a	Corporate	Gover nance	Statement	has	not	been	prepared	by	the	
company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 1 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
c o n c e r n ;
•	 the	par t	of	the	Corporate	Gover nance	Statement	on	pages	29	to	
35 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review and
•	 cer tain	elements	of	the	repor t	to	shareholders	by	the	board	on	
directors’ remuneration. 
D Turner 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants, 
One Snowhill, 
Snow Hill Queensway, 
Birmingham 
B4 6GH
11 March 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 52
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
        2010 2009
       Note £000 £000
Revenue      2 535,690 533,793
Cost of sales       (370,731) (371,533)
Gross profit       164,959 162,260
Distribution expenses       (102,016) (100,698)
Administrative expenses       (36,877) (36,804)
Operating profit      2 26,066 24,758
Finance income      6 4,637 3,764
Finance expenses      6 (5,697) (6,458)
Net finance costs       (1,060) (2,694)
Profit before tax      3 25,006 22,064
Taxation      7 (7,127) (6,168)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders     17,879 15,896
Dividend paid per share      22 11.00p 19.70p
Earnings per share
Basic      9 21.5p 19.1p
Diluted      9 21.5p 19.1p
 
All group operations during the financial years were continuing operations. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
Accounts
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2010
      Group
        2010 2009
       Note £000 £000
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders     17,879 15,896
   
Other comprehensive income:   
Foreign exchange translation differences arising on translation of overseas operations   1,094 (1,808)
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans    20 356 (10,042)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges     (1) (157)
Transfers to profit or loss on cash flow hedges      225 781
Income tax on other comprehensive income      9 2,854
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year     1,683 (8,372)
Total comprehensive income attributable to the equity shareholders for the year   19,562 7,524
    Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 54
Statements of Financial Position
at 31 December 2010
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
     Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets     
 Property, plant and equipment    10 97,215 96,530 77,968 75,082
 Intangible assets    11 13,210 13,210 – –
 Investments in subsidiary undertakings   12 – – 86,703 86,392
 Deferred tax assets    13 896 4,731 213 3,769
      111,321 114,471 164,884 165,243
Current assets
 Inventories    14 105,694 99,637 – –
 Trade and other receivables    15 102,240 101,149 27,924 27,153
 Cash and cash equivalents    16 44,758 45,737 23,369 27,473
 Assets held for sale    17 362 2,275 362 1,387
      253,054 248,798 51,655 56,013
Total assets     364,375 363,269 216,539 221,256
Liabilities
Current liabilities     
 Bank overdraft    16 – (758) – –
 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings   18 (225) (900) – –
 Trade and other payables    19 (149,476) (143,216) (38,552) (41,405)
 Employee benefits    20 (2,586) (2,506) (2,586) (2,506)
 Income tax payable    8 (4,201) (8,615) (1,485) (2,982)
      (156,488) (155,995) (42,623) (46,893)
Non-current liabilities
 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings   18 (34,011) (34,392) (30,000) (30,000)
 Employee benefits    20 (10,138) (20,253) (8,745) (19,323)
      (44,149) (54,645) (38,745) (49,323)
Total liabilities     (200,637) (210,640) (81,368) (96,216)
Net assets     163,738 152,629 135,171 125,040
Equity attributable to equity holders  of the parent     
 Share capital    22 4,268 4,268 4,268 4,268
 Share premium     53,512 53,512 53,512 53,512
 Other reserves    22 (6,571) (7,896) 7,616 7,385
 Retained earnings     112,529 102,745 69,775 59,875
Total equity     163,738 152,629 135,171 125,040
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 11 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tony Brewer   Steve Wilson
Director    Director
Company Number: 460129 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55
Accounts
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010
    Capital  Cash flow
  Share Share redemption Translation hedging Treasury Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at         
 1 January 2009 4,268 53,512 88 7,105 (848) (13,057) 110,066 161,134
Total comprehensive  
 income for the year – – – (1,808) 624 – 8,708 7,524
Transactions with  
 equity shareholders,  
 recorded directly  
 in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 316 316
Deferred tax on  
 share options  – – – – – – 9 9
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (16,354) (16,354)
Total contributions by and  
 distributions to equity  
 shareholders – – – – – – (16,029) (16,029)
Balance at         
 31 December 2009 4,268 53,512 88 5,297 (224) (13,057) 102,745 152,629
Balance at         
 1 January 2010 4,268 53,512 88 5,297 (224) (13,057) 102,745 152,629
Total comprehensive  
  income for the year – – – 1,094 224 – 18,244 19,562
Transactions with equity  
  shareholders, recorded  
  directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 448 448
Share options exercised  
 by employees – – – – – 7 – 7
Deferred tax on  
  share options – – – – – – 224 224
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (9,132) (9,132)
Total contributions by and  
 distributions to equity  
 shareholders – – – – – 7 (8,460) (8,453)
Balance at         
 31 December 2010 4,268 53,512 88 6,391 – (13,050) 112,529 163,738 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 56
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010
    Capital  Cash flow
  Share Share redemption Special hedging Treasury Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at         
 1 January 2009 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (848) (13,057) 81,803 146,344
Total comprehensive  
 income for the year – – – – 624 – (5,890) (5,266)
Transactions with  
 equity shareholders,  
 recorded directly  
 in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 316 316
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (16,354) (16,354)
Total contributions by and  
  distributions to equity  
  shareholders – – – – – – (16,038) (16,038)
Balance at         
 31 December 2009 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (224) (13,057) 59,875 125,040
Balance at         
 1 January 2010 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (224) (13,057) 59,875 125,040
Total comprehensive  
 income for the year – – – – 224 – 18,584 18,808
Transactions with equity  
 shareholders, recorded  
 directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 448 448
Share options exercised  
 by employees – – – – – 7 – 7
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (9,132) (9,132)
Total contributions by and  
 distributions to equity  
 shareholders – – – – – 7 (8,684) (8,677)
Balance at         
 31 December 2010 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (13,050) 69,775 135,171 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57
Accounts
Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2010
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
     Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities      
Profit before tax for the year     25,006 22,064 4,534 218
 Adjustments for:     
 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment    5,519 6,524 1,936 1,783
 Net settlement gain on enhanced transfer value exercise   (176) – (176) –
 Finance income    6 (4,637) (3,764) (4,402) (3,850)
 Finance expense    6 5,697 6,458 5,062 5,656
 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment   (314) (102) (222) (71)
 Share-based payments    20 448 316 47 3
Operating profit before changes in working  capital and other payables  31,543 31,496 6,779 3,739
 Change in inventories     (5,770) 6,618 – –
 Change in trade and other receivables    (1,405) 3,028 (437) (148)
 Change in trade and other payables    6,947 2,511 (2,664) 530
Cash generated from the operations    31,315 43,653 3,678 4,121
 Interest paid     (1,344) (2,272) (731) (1,458)
 Tax (paid)/received     (7,506) (7,425) 890 (1,568)
 Additional contributions to defined benefit plan   (2,706) (2,607) (2,706) (2,407)
 Enhanced transfer value exercise payments    (7,488) – (7,488) –
Net cash flow from operating activities    12,271 31,349 (6,357) (1,312)
Cash flows from investing activities      
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   3,167 664 2,142 508
 Interest received     834 846 427 613
 Dividends received     – – 14,526 1,375
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment   10 (6,995) (7,313) (5,717) (3,405)
Net cash flow from investing activities    (2,994) (5,803) 11,378 (909)
Cash flows from financing activities      
 Proceeds from the issue of treasury shares    7 – 7 –
 Proceeds from borrowings     – 1,152 – –
 Repayment of borrowings     (866) – – –
 Dividends paid    22 (9,132) (16,354) (9,132) (16,354)
Net cash flow from financing activities    (9,991) (15,202) (9,125) (16,354)
 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (714) 10,344 (4,104) (18,575)
 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January    44,979 35,193 27,473 46,048
 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held   493 (558) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   16 44,758 44,979 23,369 27,473
The company’s profit before tax excludes dividends received from subsidiaries. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 58
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Reporting entity
Headlam Group plc (the “company”) is a company incorporated  
and domiciled in the UK.
Statement of compliance
Both the company’s Financial Statements and the group’s Financial 
Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRS”). On publishing the company’s 
Financial Statements here together with the group Financial 
Statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption  
in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual 
income statement and related notes that form a part of these  
approved Financial Statements.
The company and group Financial Statements were authorised  
for issuance on 11 March 2011.
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the 
Financial Statements of the company and the Financial Statements 
of the group are set out below. These policies have been applied 
consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these 
accounting policies that have significant effect on the Financial 
Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment 
in the next year are discussed below.
(a) Measurement convention
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which  
is the group’s functional currency. All financial information presented  
in pounds sterling has been rounded to the nearest thousand.
The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on 
the historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial 
instruments which are stated at fair value. Non-current assets held  
for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.
The Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis  
as described in the Financial Review on page 21.
(b) Use of accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted 
IFRSs requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses 
during the reporting year. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, 
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects  
only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods  
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Statement of Financial 
Position date that may give rise to a material adjustment to the carrying 
value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses.
The group is committed to investing in new facilities where existing 
facilities fail to provide satisfactory customer service in a cost effective 
manner. When construction on a new facility commences, the existing 
facility is marketed for sale and this action can on occasions give rise 
to an adverse difference between carrying value and market value.  
At the Statement of Financial Position date, the assets have been 
reported at their carrying value. Market values are formally assessed 
for all properties on a triennial basis and compared with the carrying 
values. 
At the latest review, carried out at 31 December 2010, the carrying 
value of UK freehold and long leasehold land and buildings exceeded 
market value (on an existing use basis) by £11,300,000. The directors 
consider that the carrying value of the UK freehold and long leasehold 
land and buildings is supported by their ongoing value in use within the 
business. An impairment review has been undertaken on the portfolio 
and with the exception of one property, which has been impaired  
by £466,000, no further impairment was considered necessary.
Goodwill impairment
The outcome of the group’s annual impairment test for goodwill 
is dependent on the forecast cash flows of each cash-generating 
unit together with key management assumptions including profit 
growth and discount rates. No impairment resulted from the annual 
impairment test for 2010.
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised at the Statement of Financial Position 
date based on the assumption that there is a high expectation that  
the asset will be realised in due course. This assumption is dependent 
on the group’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits.
Employee benefits
The deficit relating to the group’s defined benefit plans is assessed 
annually in accordance with IAS 19 and after taking independent 
actuarial advice. The principle assumptions are set out in note 20.  
The amount of the deficit is dependent on plan asset and liability 
values and the actuarial assumptions used to determine the deficit.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
The assumptions include asset growth rates, pension and salary 
increases, price inflation, discount rate used to measure actuarial 
liabilities and mortality rates.
(c) Impact of newly adopted accounting standards
In the current year, the group has adopted the following new 
standards and interpretations:
•	 	 IFRS	3	(revised	2008),	‘Business	combinations’	and	consequential	
amendments	to	IAS	27,	‘Consolidated	and	separate	financial	
statements’,	IAS	28	‘Investments	in	associates’	and	IAS	31	‘Interests	
in Joint Ventures’.
The following new standards, amendments to standards or 
interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the year ending  
31 December 2010 but are not currently relevant for the group.
•	 	 Amendments	to	IFRS	2	–	Group	cash-settled	Share-based	 
Payment Transactions
•	 Amendments	to	IAS	39	–	Eligible	Hedged	Items
•	 Amendments	to	IFRIC	9	and	IAS	39	–	Embedded	Derivatives
•	 IFRIC	15	–	Agreements	for	the	Construction	of	Real	Estate
•	 IFRIC	16	–	Hedges	of	a	Net	Investment	in	a	Foreign	Operation
•	 IFRIC	17	–	Distribution	of	Non-Cash	Assets	to	Owners
•	 IFRIC	18	–	T ransfers	of	Assets	from	Customers
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under 
the 2009 annual improvement project to IFRS, which are mandatory 
for the year ended 31 December 2010, have been adopted in the 
year. None of these amendments have had a material impact on the 
group’s Financial Statements.
(d) IFRS not yet applied
The following standards and interpretations have been endorsed but 
are not yet effective and therefore have not yet been applied by the 
group in these Financial Statements:
•	 	 Amendments	to	IAS	32	‘Classification	of	Rights	Issues’	–	requires	
that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the 
entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency 
are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights options or 
warrants pro-rata to all of its existing owners of the same class  
of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
•	 	 IFRIC	19	‘Extinguishing	Financial	Liabilities	with	Equity	Instruments’	 
– deals with how entities should measure equity instruments issued 
in a debt for equity swap. It addresses the accounting for such  
a transaction by the debtor only.
•	 	 Amendment	to	IFRIC	14	‘Prepayments	of	a	Minimum	Funding	
Requirement’.
•	 	 AS	24	‘Related	par ties’	–	ef fective	for	periods	commencing	on	or	
after 1 January 2011 – provides an exemption to all government 
related entities which is not applicable to the group, however the 
revised standard also amends the definition of a related party, 
which will be applicable.
In addition to the above amendments to a number of standards  
and interpretations under the 2010 annual improvement project  
will become mandatory for the year ending 31 December 2011.
The group has considered the impact of these new standards and 
interpretations in future periods on profit, earnings per share and net 
assets. None of the above standards or interpretations are expected  
to have a material impact.
Basis of consolidation
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company 
and its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the “group”. 
The company’s Financial Statements present information about the 
company as a separate entity and not about its group.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group. Control exists when 
the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently 
exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the group. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and  
losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated  
in the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Statement of 
Financial Position date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation 
are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of  
the transaction.
Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, are translated at foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the Statement of Financial Position date. 
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated at an 
average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 60
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign 
subsidiaries are taken directly to the translation reserve and reflected 
as a movement in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen 
after 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented  
as a separate component of equity.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 23 contains information about the foreign currency exposure  
of the group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the group
Financial instruments issued by the group are treated as equity, i.e. 
forming part of shareholders’ funds, only to the extent that they meet 
the following two conditions:
(a)   they include no contractual obligations upon the company, or 
group as the case may be, to deliver cash or other financial 
assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable 
to	the	company	or	group;	and
(b)   where the instrument will or may be settled in the company’s  
own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes 
no obligation to deliver a variable number of the company’s  
own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled  
by the company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other 
financial assets for a fixed number or its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are 
classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified 
takes the legal form of the company’s own shares, the amounts presented 
in these Financial Statements for called up share capital and share 
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as 
part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded 
directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments
The group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign 
currency and interest rate risk exposures. Derivatives are recognised 
initially	at	fair	value;	attributable	transaction	costs	are	recognised	in	
the income statement when incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are 
accounted for as described below. 
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument 
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity 
to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge 
is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income 
statement. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then 
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset,  
the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying 
amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount 
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same 
period that the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes.  
Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated 
future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract 
and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the 
measurement date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market 
price at the Statement of Financial Position date, being the present 
value of the quoted forward price. The gain or loss on remeasurement 
to fair value of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed  
assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and any other  
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition 
for its intended use.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items  
of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated.  
The annual rates applicable are:
Freehold and long leasehold properties  – 2%
Short leasehold properties  – period of lease
Motor vehicles  – 25%
Office and computer equipment  – 10% - 33.3%
Warehouse and production equipment  – 10% - 20%
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and 
equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal 
with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are 
recognised in the income statement. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase 
method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred 
since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between 
the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but, tested annually for impairment, or more frequently when there  
is an indicator that the unit may be impaired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is 
included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the  
amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable 
save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill 
was amortised. This is in accordance with IFRS 1.
Other intangibles
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible 
assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated  
at fair value at the date of acquisition less cumulative amortisation  
and impairment losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such 
lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and 
goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each Statement of 
Financial Position date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the 
date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives of customer 
lists are deemed to be between 1-24 months. 
Non-current assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount 
will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing 
use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within 
one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken 
to the income statement. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent remeasurement.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses. Debts are 
provided for, the credit loss allowance, on specific receivables in  
full	as	soon	as	they	are	known	to	be	‘bad’	or	it	becomes	apparent	 
that	payment	is	‘doubtful’.	
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure 
incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing 
location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Allowances for inventory losses are determined by reference to each 
individual product and are calculated by assessing the age, condition 
and quantity of each individual product.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Statement of Financial 
Position at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call  
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form  
an integral part of cash management of both the company and group 
are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose only of the Cash Flow Statement.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then are 
stated at amortised cost.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s assets other than inventories 
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each Statement of 
Financial Position date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable 
amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is estimated at each Statement of 
Financial Position date.
For the purposes of impairment testing assets are grouped together 
into the smallest group of assets that generates cash flows from 
continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from 
other groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of  
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the 
other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 62
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of assets, with the exception of the group’s 
receivables, is the greater of their fair value less cost to sell and value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined  
for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of the group’s receivables carried at 
amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate, i.e., the 
effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial 
assets. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when  
there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist  
and there had been a change in the estimates used to determine  
the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would  
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,  
if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value  
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an 
effective interest basis.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the group constructs qualifying 
assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the income 
statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs are charged to the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method.
Employee benefits
The company and the group operate both defined benefit and defined 
contribution plans, the assets of which are held in independent trustee 
administered funds. The pension cost is assessed in accordance with 
the advice of a qualified actuary.
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. 
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair 
value of any plan assets is deducted. The liability discount rate is 
the yield at the Statement of Financial Position date using AA rated 
corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms 
of the group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified 
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the 
increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over  
the average period until the benefits become vested. 
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense  
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the group’s 
obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in 
reserves and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the group, the asset 
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds  
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The group operates a defined benefit pension plan in the UK and in 
Switzerland. In the UK as there is no contractual agreement or stated 
group policy for allocating the net defined benefit liability between 
the participating subsidiaries and as such the full deficit is recognised 
by the company, which is the sponsoring employer. The participating 
subsidiary companies have recognised a cost equal to contributions 
payable for the period as advised by a professionally qualified 
actuary.
Share-based payment transactions
The company and group operate various equity settled share option 
schemes under the approved and unapproved executive schemes and 
a savings related scheme.
For executive share option schemes, the option price may not be less 
than the mid market value of the group’s shares at the time when the 
options were granted or the nominal value.
Further details of the share plans are given in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 38 to 41.
The performance is assessed by reference to the group’s published results. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity over the period 
that the employees unconditionally become entitled to the award. 
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the 
options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an 
option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that 
vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving 
the threshold for vesting.
When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the 
company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an 
employee expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary 
undertaking together with the capital contribution received.  
In the financial statements of the company, the options granted  
are recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with  
a corresponding increase in equity.
Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount 
of the consideration paid, net of any tax effects is recognised as a 
deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury 
shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When 
treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received 
is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or 
deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration, net of trade discounts and excludes intra-group sales 
and value added and similar taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods  
is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership  
of the goods are transferred to the buyer (which is the date on which 
goods are received by the customer), the amount of revenue can 
be reliably measured and it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the transaction will flow to the group.
Lease payments
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the lease transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group.  
All other leases are treated as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included in property, plant and 
equipment at the lower of fair value at the date of acquisition or the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element 
of outstanding finance leases is included in financial liabilities. The 
finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement 
at a constant period rate of charge on the outstanding obligations.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the  
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement  
as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges  
on shares classified as liabilities, finance leases, interest receivable  
on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains  
and losses on hedging instruments as outlined in the accounting  
policy relating to derivative financial instruments and hedging 
described above.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend 
income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s 
right to receive payments is established.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension 
plans, less administration expenses of pension plans are recognised 
in financial income. The interest accruing on defined benefit pension 
plan liabilities are recognised in financial expenses.
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the board and unpaid at the end of the 
year are not recognised in the Financial Statements. Interim and final 
dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income  
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the Statement of Financial Position date, and any adjustment  
to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax 
is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent 
that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the Statement of Financial Position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 64
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
2 SEGMENT REPORTING
The group has 54 operating segments which represent the individual trading operations throughout the UK (49 segments) and Continental Europe 
(5 segments). Each operation is wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and distribution of floorcovering products. The operating results 
of each are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which is deemed to be the Group Chief Executive. Discrete financial 
information is available for each segment and used by the Group Chief Executive for decisions on resource allocation and to assess performance. 
The operating segments have been aggregated to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics, with relevance to products and 
services, type and class of customer, methods of sale and distribution and the regulatory environment in which they operate. The group’s internal 
management structure and financial reporting systems differentiate the operating segments on the basis of the differing economic characteristics 
in the UK and Continental Europe and accordingly present these as two separate reportable segments. This distinction is embedded in the 
construction of operating reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive, the board and the senior executive management and forms the basis  
for the presentation of operating segment information given below.
    UK Continental Europe Total
    2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
External revenues   432,815 429,646 102,875 104,147 535,690 533,793
Depreciation   2,503 2,834 747 733 3,250 3,567
Reportable segment result   24,662 23,106 2,553 2,487 27,215 25,593
Reportable segment assets   226,518 223,044 50,267 49,636 276,785 272,680
Capital expenditure   784 926 553 2,197 1,337 3,123
Reportable segment liabilities   (129,365) (123,088) (20,111) (20,662) (149,476) (143,750)
During the year there are no inter-segment revenues for the reportable segments (2009: £nil).
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit, assets and liabilities and other material items:
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Profit for the year      
Total profit for reportable segments      27,215 25,593
Impairment of assets       (466) (1,211)
Unallocated (expense)/income       (683) 376
Operating profit       26,066 24,758
Finance income       4,637 3,764
Finance expense       (5,697) (6,458)
Profit before taxation       25,006 22,064
Taxation       (7,127) (6,168)
Profit for the year       17,879 15,896 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Assets      
Total assets for reportable segments      276,785 272,680
Unallocated assets:      
 Properties, plant and equipment      86,332 83,583
 Deferred tax assets       896 4,731
 Assets held for sale       362 2,275
Total assets       364,375 363,269
Liabilities      
Total liabilities for reportable segments      (149,476) (143,750)
Unallocated liabilities:      
 Employee benefits       (12,724) (22,759)
 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings      (34,236) (35,292)
 Income tax payable       (4,201) (8,615)
 Derivative liabilities       – (224)
Total liabilities       (200,637) (210,640)
      
       Reportable  
       segment Group Consolidated 
       totals items totals 
       £000 £000 £000
Other material items 2010
Capital expenditure      1,337 5,658 6,995
Depreciation      3,250 1,803 5,053
Impairment of assets      – 466 466
       4,587 7,927 12,514
Other material items 2009      
Capital expenditure      3,123 4,190 7,313
Depreciation      3,567 1,746 5,313
Impairment of assets      – 1,211 1,211
       6,690 7,147 13,837
Each segment is a continuing operation. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 66
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
The Group Chief Executive, the board and the executive management team has access to information that provides details on revenue by 
principal product group and geographic origin for the two reportable segments, as set out in the following table:
    UK Continental Europe Total
    2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue      
Residential   297,606 295,960 51,992 53,617 349,598 349,577
Commercial   135,209 133,686 50,883 50,530 186,092 184,216
    432,815 429,646 102,875 104,147 535,690 533,793
3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX
The following are included in profit before tax:
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment      5,053 5,313
Impairment of assets       466 1,211
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment      314 102
Operating lease rentals  
 Plant and machinery       8,994 9,001
 Land and buildings       1,708 1,951
Auditor’s remuneration:  
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Audit of these Financial Statements      62 60
Amounts received by the auditors and their associates in respect of:  
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    145 156
 All other services       21 2
        228 218
Amounts paid to the company’s auditor in respect of services to the company, other than the audit of the company’s Financial Statements, have 
not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
4 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of people employed, including directors, during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
      Number of 
      employees
      Group
        2010 2009
By sector:  
Floorcoverings       2,011 2,023
Central operations       9 9
        2,020 2,032
By function:  
Sales and distribution       1,859 1,865
Administration       161 167
        2,020 2,032
The aggregate payroll costs were as follows:
        £000 £000
Wages and salaries       62,734 63,012
Equity settled share based payment expense      448 316
Social security costs       8,160 8,375
Pension costs       3,438 2,817
        74,780 74,520
5 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Directors emoluments       2,074 1,898
Equity settled share based payment expense      39 2
  
Further details of directors’ emoluments, share options and pension entitlement are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 46.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 68
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
6 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Interest income:  
Bank interest       642 641
Other       179 62
Return on defined benefit plan assets      3,816 3,061
Finance income       4,637 3,764
Interest expense:  
Bank loans, overdrafts and other financial expenses     (1,122) (1,376)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred from equity    (125) (880)
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation      (4,450) (4,202)
Finance expenses       (5,697) (6,458)
7 TAXATION
Recognised in the income statement
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Current tax expense:  
Current year       3,756 7,121
Adjustments for prior years       (697) (601)
        3,059 6,520
Deferred tax expense:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     3,762 (360)
Effect of change in UK tax rate       40 –
Adjustments for prior years       266 8
        4,068 (352)
Total tax in income statement       7,127 6,168
  
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Current tax on:  
Income and expenses recognised directly in equity     – –
  
Deferred tax on:  
Share options       224 9
Deferred tax on other comprehensive income:  
Defined benefit plans       72 2,791
Cash flow hedge       (63) 63
Total tax reported directly in reserves      233 2,863 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
7 TAXATION continued
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years 
from 2011. The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010 and will be effective 
from 1 April 2011. As such, the deferred tax balances outstanding at the Statement of Financial Position date are stated at 27%. It has not yet 
been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the group’s future 
current tax charge and reduce the group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities accordingly.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate  
     2010 2009
      % £000 % £000
Profit before tax      25,006  22,064
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate    28.0 7,001 28.0 6,178
Effect of change in UK tax rate     0.2 40 – –
Non-deductible expenses     2.5 635 3.0 658
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions    (0.5) (118) (0.3) (75)
Over provided in prior years     (1.7) (431) (2.7) (593)
Total tax in income statement     28.5 7,127 28.0 6,168
8 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
The group’s current tax liability of £4,201,000 (2009: £8,615,000) represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and  
prior year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable. The company’s current tax liability of £1,485,000 (2009: £2,982,000) represents 
the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and prior year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable.
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Earnings  
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit attributable to equity holders of the parent  17,879 15,896
        2010 2009
Number of shares  
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January      85,363,743 85,363,743
Effect of shares held in treasury       (2,246,489) (2,248,647)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share   83,117,254 83,115,096
Effect of diluted potential ordinary shares:  
 Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December    83,117,254 83,115,096
 Dilutive effect of share options       113,570 94,622
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share   83,230,824 83,209,718
At 31 December 2010, the company held 2,245,603 shares in treasury and these are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 70
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
      Land & Plant & Under 
      buildings equipment construction Total 
Group     £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2009     91,775 26,128 5,236 123,139
Additions     4,126 3,187 – 7,313
Disposals     (536) (1,816) – (2,352)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    (778) (563) (420) (1,761)
Transfer to use     4,816 – (4,816) –
Transfer to assets held for sale     (3,961) – – (3,961)
Balance at 31 December 2009    95,442 26,936 – 122,378
Balance at 1 January 2010     95,442 26,936 – 122,378
Additions     5,653 1,284 58 6,995
Disposals     (755) (829) – (1,584)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    605 73 – 678
Transfer to assets held for sale     (491) – – (491)
Balance at 31 December 2010     100,454 27,464 58 127,976
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2009     10,789 12,609 – 23,398
Depreciation charge for the year    1,736 3,577 – 5,313
Disposals     (104) (1,686) – (1,790)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    (321) (437) – (758)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (315) – – (315)
Balance at 31 December 2009    11,785 14,063 – 25,848
Balance at 1 January 2010     11,785 14,063 – 25,848
Depreciation charge for the year    1,794 3,259 – 5,053
Asset impairment     466 – – 466
Disposals     (224) (718) – (942)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    414 51 – 465
Transfer to assets held for sale     (129) – – (129)
Balance at 31 December 2010     14,106 16,655 – 30,761
Net book value
At 1 January 2009     80,986 13,519 5,236 99,741
At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010    83,657 12,873 – 96,530
At 31 December 2010     86,348 10,809 58 97,215
At 31 December 2010 the cost less accumulated depreciation of long leasehold property held by the group was £8,693,000  
(2009: £8,873,000).
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued
      Land & Plant & Under 
      buildings equipment construction Total 
Company     £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2009     82,127 594 – 82,721
Additions     3,290 115 – 3,405
Disposals     (516) (64) – (580)
Transfer to group company     – (44) – (44)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (1,890) – – (1,890)
Balance at 31 December 2009    83,011 601 – 83,612
Balance at 1 January 2010     83,011 601 – 83,612
Additions     5,653 6 58 5,717
Disposals     (755) (11) – (766)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (491) – – (491)
Balance at 31 December 2010     87,418 596 58 88,072
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2009     6,915 528 – 7,443
Depreciation charge for the year    1,392 38 – 1,430
Disposals     (88) (61) – (149)
Transfer to group company     – (36) – (36)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (158) – – (158)
Balance at 31 December 2009    8,061 469 – 8,530
Balance at 1 January 2010     8,061 469 – 8,530
Depreciation charge for the year    1,431 39 – 1,470
Asset impairment     466 – – 466
Disposals     (224) (9) – (233)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (129) – – (129)
Balance at 31 December 2010     9,605 499 – 10,104
Net book value
At 1 January 2009     75,212 66 – 75,278
At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010    74,950 132 – 75,082
At 31 December 2010     77,813 97 58 77,968
At 31 December 2010 the cost less accumulated depreciation of long leasehold property held by the company was £8,693,000  
(2009: £8,873,000). Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 72
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP
        Customer 
       Goodwill lists Total  
       £000  £000  £000
Cost   
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009    13,210 4,142 17,352
Balance at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010    13,210 4,142 17,352
Amortisation   
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009    – 4,142 4,142
Balance at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010    – 4,142 4,142
Net book value   
At 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009     13,210 – 13,210
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010     13,210 – 13,210
Cumulative impairment losses recognised in relation to goodwill is £nil (2009: £nil).
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill
Goodwill is attributed to the businesses identified below for the purpose of testing impairment. These businesses are the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored and are a sub-classification of the group’s operating segments.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each unit are as follows:
       Reported 2010 2009
       Segment £000 £000
Joseph, Hamilton & Seaton      UK 4,348 4,348
Crucial Trading      UK 1,369 1,369
Belcolor AG     Continental Europe 3,342 3,342
LMS SA     Continental Europe 3,197 3,197
Other      UK 954 954
        13,210 13,210 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP continued
Impairment
Each year, or whenever events or a change in the economic environment indicates a risk of impairment, the group reviews the value of 
goodwill balances allocated to its cash generating units. In the absence of any identified impairment risks, tests are performed based on internal 
valuations of each cash generating unit.
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or cash generating unit (“CGU”) to their recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount represents the higher of the CGU’s fair value less the cost to sell and value in use. Where the recoverable amount is  
less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year, all goodwill was tested for impairment, with no impairment charge resulting.
Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU on a basis consistent with 
2009, and applying the following key assumptions.
Key assumptions
Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the approved 2011 business plan. For the purpose of 
impairment testing the cash flows were assumed to grow into perpetuity at a rate of 2.5% beyond the 2011 business plan.
The main assumptions within the operating cash flows used for 2011 include the achievement of future sales volumes and prices for all key  
product lines, control of purchase prices, achievement of budgeted operating costs and no significant adverse foreign exchange rate 
movements. These assumptions have been reviewed in light of the current economic environment.
The directors have estimated the discount rate by reference to an industry average weighted average cost of capital. This has been adjusted to 
include an appropriate risk factor to reflect current economic circumstances and the risk profile of the CGU’s. A post tax weighted average cost 
of capital of 9.5% (2009: 9.5%) has been used for impairment testing, adjusted to 10.5% (2009: 10.5%) for Continental Europe to reflect the 
differing risk profile of that segment. The post tax discount rate has been applied to the post tax cash flows. 
The CGU’s in the UK have similar characteristics, and risk profiles, and therefore a single discount rate has been applied to each UK CGU. 
Similarly, the directors view the CGU’s in Continental Europe as having consistent risk profiles and therefore a single risk factor has been 
applied. The CGU’s in Continental Europe operate under a different regulatory environment and this is therefore reflected in the risk factor used 
to determine the discount rates in the UK and Continental Europe.
Sensitivity analysis
The two key assumptions made by the directors are the discount rate used and the growth rate beyond the business plan. Sensitivity analysis  
has been carried out by reference to both of these assumptions and neither a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 1% reduction in the growth  
rate would result in any impairment, with the exception of the goodwill attributable to the LMS SA CGU.
The recoverable amount of the LMS SA CGU has been determined as £9,440,000, which exceeds the carrying value by £382,000. 
A 0.32% increase in the discount rate or a 0.37% decrease in the growth rate, with all other assumptions remaining constant and after 
incorporating any consequential effects of that change on the other variables used to measure the recoverable amount, would result in the 
recoverable amount of the CGU equating to its carrying value. The directors consider that the assumptions used in determining the recoverable 
amount are appropriate and, at this time, support the carrying value of the CGU.
Other than disclosed above, any other reasonable change to the key assumptions would be unlikely to generate a different impairment test 
outcome to the one that is included in these Financial Statements. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 74
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Summary information on investments in subsidiary undertakings is as follows:
         £000
Cost   
Balance at 1 January 2009        88,239
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings      313
Balance at 31 December 2009       88,552
Balance at 1 January 2010        88,552
Disposals during the year        (2,250)
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings      401
Balance at 31 December 2010        86,703
Impairment   
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009      2,160
Balance at 1 January 2010         2,160
Disposals during the year        (2,160)
Balance at 31 December 2010        –
Carrying value   
At 1 January 2009         86,079
At 31 December 2009        86,392
At 31 December 2010        86,703
Disposals during the year ended 31 December 2010 relate to the striking-off and liquidation of non-trading subsidiaries.
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 103.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – GROUP
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
    Assets Liabilities Net
    2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment   – – (3,683) (3,976) (3,683) (3,976)
Intangible assets   – 52 (223) (241) (223) (189)
Employee benefits   3,891 6,350 – – 3,891 6,350
Other items   911 2,546 – – 911 2,546
Tax assets/(liabilities)   4,802 8,948 (3,906) (4,217) 896 4,731
Set-off of tax   (3,906) (4,217) 3,906 4,217 – –
    896 4,731 – – 896 4,731
      
Movement in deferred tax during the year    
      1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
      2010 in income in equity 2010 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment     (3,976) 293 – (3,683)
Intangible assets     (189) (34)  (223)
Employee benefits     6,350 (2,531) 72 3,891
Other items     2,546 (1,796) 161 911
      4,731 (4,068) 233 896
    
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year    
      1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December 
      2009 in income in equity 2009 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment     (3,698) (278) – (3,976)
Intangible assets     (158) (31) – (189)
Employee benefits     4,009 (450) 2,791 6,350
Other items     1,363 1,111 72 2,546
      1,516 352 2,863 4,731
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the Statement of Financial Position date the group has unused capital losses of £10,379,000 (2009: £9,266,000) available for offset 
against future chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the directors do not anticipate incurring 
significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 76
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – COMPANY
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
    Assets Liabilities Net
    2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment   – – (3,271) (3,348) (3,271) (3,348)
Employee benefits   3,217 6,067 – – 3,217 6,067
Cash flow hedge   – 63 – – – 63
Other items   267 987 – – 267 987
Tax assets/(liabilities)   3,484 7,117 (3,271) (3,348) 213 3,769
Set-off of tax   (3,271) (3,348) 3,271 3,348 – –
    213 3,769 – – 213 3,769
      
Movement in deferred tax during the year    
      1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
      2010 in income in equity 2010 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment     (3,348) 77 – (3,271)
Employee benefits     6,067 (2,788) (62) 3,217
Cash flow hedge     63 – (63) –
Other items     987 (720) – 267
      3,769 (3,431) (125) 213
    
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year    
      1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December 
      2009 in income in equity 2009 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment     (2,865) (483) – (3,348)
Employee benefits     3,594 (540) 3,013 6,067
Cash flow hedge     – – 63 63
Other items     712 275 – 987
      1,441 (748) 3,076 3,769
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the Statement of Financial Position date the company has unused capital losses of £10,379,000 (2009: £9,266,000) available for offset 
against future chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the directors do not anticipate 
incurring significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
14 INVENTORIES
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Finished goods and goods held for resale    105,694 99,637 – –
 
Cost of sales consists of the following:    
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Material cost     366,782 366,761 – –
Processing cost     3,949 4,772 – –
      370,731 371,533 – –
15 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables     78,878 79,104 – –
Prepayments and accrued income    4,132 3,869 30 66
Other receivables     19,119 18,176 612 267
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    – – 27,282 26,820
Derivative assets used for hedging:    
 Other derivatives at fair value     111 – – –
      102,240 101,149 27,924 27,153
£2,160,000 (2009: £2,493,000) was recognised as an impairment loss in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of trade receivables. 
The impairment loss is attributable to the geographical segments as follows:
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
UK       1,859 2,107
Continental Europe       301 386
        2,160 2,493 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 78
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
16 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents per Statement of Financial Position   44,758 45,737 23,369 27,473
Bank overdrafts     – (758) – –
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statements   44,758 44,979 23,369 27,473
17 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets classified as held for sale:    
Property, plant and equipment     362 2,275 362 1,387
At the year end the company held a freehold property in Bishop Auckland, UK that is being actively marketed for sale, is available for 
immediate disposal and is expected to be disposed of during 2011.
At the year ended 31 December 2009, the group held freehold properties in Leeds, UK, and Zutphen, the Netherlands, that were being 
actively marketed for sale and these were subsequently disposed of during 2010. These properties became surplus to the group’s requirements 
following the relocation of the occupying businesses to new purpose built facilities in 2008 and 2009 respectively. The properties were 
disposed of for their revised carrying value following an impairment review in 2009.
The Bishop Auckland property forms part of the properties, plant and equipment reported under unallocated assets in note 2 as it is primarily  
a group activity to hold and maintain the properties.
18 OTHER INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the group’s and company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more 
information about the group’s and company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 23.
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loan     225 900 – –
      225 900 – –
Non-current liabilities    
Interest-bearing loans     34,011 34,392 30,000 30,000
      34,011 34,392 30,000 30,000 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
18 OTHER INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
Included within the interest-bearing loans is an amount directly attributable to borrowing costs of £nil (2009: £113,000).
The group has undrawn borrowing facilities expiring in one year or less which, at 31 December 2010, amounted to £45,418,000  
(2009: £44,465,000). The facility conditions for drawdown had been met during the period. The borrowing is unsecured and there is a 
cross guarantee in place between the company and its UK subsidiaries. There is a downstream guarantee from the company in relation to its 
borrowing facility in the Netherlands.
The undrawn borrowing facilities are as follows:
      Interest  Interest 
      rate 2010 rate 2009
      % £000 % £000
UK     2.28 35,000 2.48 35,000
Netherlands     2.11 1,285 1.78 1,333
France     1.72 5,570 1.31 5,017
Switzerland     1.40 3,563 1.70 3,115
       45,418  44,465
All the borrowing facilities above bear interest at floating rates. The Swiss facility may be drawn as an overdraft or fixed rate loan with different 
terms depending on length of time and amount.
19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables     114,225 106,494 104 52
Taxation and social security     11,111 10,717 1,825 1,718
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses    24,140 25,761 3,565 6,008
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    – – 33,058 33,403
Derivative liabilities used for hedging:    
 Other derivatives at fair value     – 20 – –
 Designated hedges     – 224 – 224
      149,476 143,216 38,552 41,405
Included within non-trade payables and accrued expenses is an amount of £31,000 for accrued interest on unsecured bank loans  
(2009: £131,000).
The group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 23.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 80
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension plans
During the year, the group operated a UK and Swiss defined benefit plan and defined contribution plans in the UK, France and the 
Netherlands. The Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme is the principal defined benefit plan which provides benefits to UK 
employees that have been admitted into the scheme. The scheme is self-administered and its assets are held independently of the company’s 
finances. The scheme is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the company at rates advised by 
professionally qualified actuaries. The latest actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2008 using the projected unit method. The 
main annual rate assumptions used by the actuary were, increase in salaries 4.7%, increase of pensions in payment 3.2%, discount rate 
before retirement 6.5%, discount rate after retirement 4.75% and inflation 3.2%. Assets were taken at their audited market value at the valuation 
date. This valuation also used revised mortality assumptions. These revised assumptions have been derived to take account of the characteristics 
of plan members and include a greater allowance for future increases in longevity compared with the assumptions previously adopted.
During 2010, the UK Government announced a move to adopting Consumer Price Inflation (“CPI”) rather than Retail Price Inflation (“RPI”) as the 
basis for inflation assumptions underpinning retirement benefit obligations. The directors have considered this change and associated guidance. 
Having taken advice, the group has determined that RPI remains the appropriate basis for measuring its obligations, such that the change 
announced has had no impact on the group’s retirement benefit obligations.
Included within the total staff costs as disclosed in note 4 are costs relating to the group’s defined contribution plans. The pension cost for the  
year represents contributions payable by the group to the plans and amounted to £1,848,000 (2009: £1,524,000). Contributions amounting  
to £125,000 (2009: £118,000) in respect of December 2010 payroll were paid in January 2011.
The total group cost of operating the plans during the year was £3,438,000 (2009: £2,817,000) and, at 31 December 2010, there was  
an amount of £366,000 (2009: £336,000) owed to the plans, being employer and employee contributions due for December 2010, which 
was paid in January 2011.
In the UK there is no contractual agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit liability between the participating 
subsidiaries and as such the full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring employer. The participating subsidiary companies 
have recognised a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a professionally qualified actuary. The company recognises 
a cost equal to its contributions payable for the period net of amounts recharged in relation to the group deficit to the participating subsidiary 
companies.
During the year, the group initiated and completed an enhanced transfer value exercise for deferred members as part of its ongoing strategy to 
reduce the Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme liability. The amounts recognised in the Financial Statements in respect of this 
exercise are set out below:
        Consolidated
        Income Cash flow
        Statement Statement 
        £000 £000
Enhanced transfer value contribution made to UK scheme     – 2,959
Enhanced transfer value lump sum payments made direct to members  
 (including associated tax and social security costs)     (4,529) 4,529
IAS 19 Settlement gain       4,705 –
Effect of enhanced transfer value exercise      176 7,488
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations   (80,889) (88,253) (71,713) (81,412)
Fair value of plan assets     68,451 65,803 60,382 59,583
Net obligations     (12,438) (22,450) (11,331) (21,829)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations   (12,438) (22,450) (11,331) (21,829)
Other long-term employee benefits (note 21)    (286) (309) – –
Total employee benefits     (12,724) (22,759) (11,331) (21,829)
Analysed as:    
Current liabilities     (2,586) (2,506) (2,586) (2,506)
Non-current liabilities     (10,138) (20,253) (8,745) (19,323)
Total employee benefits     (12,724) (22,759) (11,331) (21,829)
Following the actuarial valuation of the Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme as at 31 March 2008, a recovery plan was  
agreed between the Trustees of the scheme and the company to fund the deficit. In accordance with the recovery plan, payments were made  
to the scheme during 2010 of £2,499,000 which, in accordance with the recovery plan, increase to £2,586,000 in 2011. It was agreed  
that recovery payments, which commenced on 1 January 2009 and will cease on 31 March 2018, were to increase by 3.2% each year.  
The next actuarial valuation is due at 31 March 2011 and the opportunity will be used to reassess the recovery plan.
In addition to the recovery payments, company contributions as at the date of the last valuation have been fixed at 24.7% of pensionable 
salaries at that date, with no allowance made in respect of subsequent leavers. This represented an additional contribution amounting to 
£207,000 during 2010 (2009: £188,000).
During 2011, the group and company expect to pay regular ongoing contributions of approximately £4,122,000 to the UK defined benefit 
plan of which £2,586,000 relates to the agreed recovery payments, the balance being estimated service costs.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 82
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January     88,253 69,441 81,412 62,443
Current service cost     1,579 1,268 1,277 868
Interest cost     4,450 4,202 4,235 4,013
Actuarial losses     2,839 16,125 2,467 16,320
Benefits paid     (13,009) (2,457) (13,202) (2,480)
Contributions by members     401 357 218 223
Past service costs     11 25 11 25
Settlements     (4,705) – (4,705) –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    1,070 (708) – –
At 31 December     80,889 88,253 71,713 81,412
Movements in fair value of plan assets
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January     65,803 55,139 59,583 49,534
Expected return on plan assets     3,816 3,061 3,556 2,859
Actuarial gains     3,195 6,083 3,274 5,559
Contributions by employer:    
  Future service contributions     1,595 1,471 1,288 1,281
  Past service deficit contributions    2,499 2,419 2,499 2,419
  Additional past service deficit contributions    207 188 207 188
Contributions for enhanced transfer values    2,959 – 2,959 –
Contributions by members     401 357 218 223
Benefits paid     (13,009) (2,457) (13,202) (2,480)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    985 (458) – –
At 31 December     68,451 65,803 60,382 59,583 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
Expense recognised in the income statement relating to defined benefit obligation (excluding transfer value exercise)
      Group
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Current service cost       1,579 1,268
Past service cost       11 25
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation      4,450 4,202
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets      (3,816) (3,061)
Total       2,224 2,434
The (income)/expense recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement are:
      Group
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Administrative (income)/expenses      (3,115) 1,293
Net financing costs       634 1,141
        (2,481) 2,434
Actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
      Group
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligation      (2,839) (16,125)
Actuarial gain on plan assets       3,195 6,083
        356 (10,042)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004, the transition date to IFRS, 
are £15,429,000 (2009: £15,785,000). Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the company’s Statement of Comprehensive 
Income are £14,363,000 (2009: £15,170,000). Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 84
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued 
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities     36,517 36,107 34,879 34,844
Government debt     17,449 15,995 17,449 15,995
Corporate bonds     6,998 7,171 3,141 4,198
Annuities     4,587 4,371 4,587 4,371
Other     2,900 2,159 326 175
      68,451 65,803 60,382 59,583
Actual return on plan assets     7,665 9,144 6,830 8,418
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated  
by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Principal actuarial assumptions, expressed as weighted averages, are as follows:
 Group Company
    2010 2009 2010 2009
    % % % %
Discount rate   5.1 5.6 5.4 5.8
Future salary increases   4.7 5.0 5.1 5.3
Future pension increases   3.2 3.5 3.6 3.8
Inflation rate   3.3 3.6 3.6 3.8
Expected rate of return on plan assets  5.7 6.1 6.0 6.3
Mortality table assumptions:    
 UK pre-retirement   AC00 (Ultimate)  AC00 (Ultimate) AC00 (Ultimate) AC00 (Ultimate)
    table table table table
 UK post-retirement –    103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F)
 future pensioners   of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00
    tables with tables with tables with tables with
    medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
    projections projections projections projections
 UK post-retirement –    103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F)
 current pensioners   of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00
    tables with tables with tables with tables with
    medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
    projections projections projections projections
 Swiss scheme   EVK 2000 EVK 2000 – –
      Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
The mortality assumption implies the expected future lifetime from age 65 is as follows:
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-pensioner male     23.4 23.3 23.4 23.3
Pensioner male     21.5 21.3 21.5 21.3
Non-pensioner female     25.3 25.2 25.3 25.2
Pensioner female     23.4 23.3 23.4 23.3
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Statement of Financial Position
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Group    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (80,889) (88,253) (69,441) (71,350) (73,160)
Fair value of plan assets    68,451 65,803 55,139 60,308 56,220
Deficit    (12,438) (22,450) (14,302) (11,042) (16,940)
     
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Company    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (71,713) (81,412) (62,443) (66,953) (69,736)
Fair value of plan assets    60,382 59,583 49,534 56,098 52,704
Deficit    (11,331) (21,829) (12,909) (10,855) (17,032)
Experience adjustments
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Group    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities    (588) (1,787) 83 482 (618)
On plan assets    3,195 6,083 (11,798) 507 1,518
As a percentage of plan liabilities   (0.7%) (2.0%) 0.1% 0.7% (0.8%)
As a percentage of plan assets    4.7% 9.2% (21.4%) 0.8% 2.7%
     
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Company    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities    (522) (1,402) (24) (14) (642)
On plan assets    3,274 5,559 (10,785) 313 1,403
As a percentage of plan liabilities   (0.7%) (1.7%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.9%)
As a percentage of plan assets    5.4% 9.3% (21.8%) 0.6% 2.7%
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 86
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share-based payments – Group and company
Executive directors and executive management currently participate in executive share option schemes. The option price may not be less than  
the greater of the mid-market value of the group’s shares at the time when the options were granted or the nominal value. Options granted under 
the 1998 Inland Revenue approved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of their date of grant, subject  
to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Options granted under the 1998 unapproved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and seventh anniversaries of their date of 
grant. Awards are subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per annum respectively 
over the relevant period.
Additionally, the group operates a savings related share option scheme (“sharesave scheme”) which is open to employees subject to eligibility 
criteria determined by the directors prior to each option grant. The most recent grant was on 21 May 2010 when employees with over one 
month’s service were invited to participate. 
The group also operates a 2008 HMRC approved scheme, a 2008 unapproved scheme, the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 
and the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008. Further details of these schemes and plans are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 
39 and 40. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share-based payments – Group and company continued
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows, whereby all options are settled by physical delivery of shares:
    Number of 
    instruments   Contractual
Grant date/employees entitled 2010 2009 Vesting conditions life of options
Approved 1998 scheme granted  40,404 46,404 Movement of the group’s basic 14/04/06 –
to key management 14 April 2003   earnings per share exceeding 14/04/13  
      RPI over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme granted – 2,596 Movement of the group’s basic 14/04/06 –
to key management 14 April 2003   earnings per share exceeding 14/04/10  
      RPI over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme granted  1,242,864 1,242,864 Movement of the group’s basic 22/08/08 –
to key management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding RPI by 22/08/12 
      3%-5% pa over the relevant period
Approved 1998 scheme granted  57,136 57,136 Movement of the group’s basic 22/08/08 –
to key management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding that of 22/08/15 
      RPI by 3% pa over the relevant period
Five year sharesave scheme granted  40,980 45,152 Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 25 May 2006    01/01/12
Three year sharesave scheme granted  57,784 73,098 Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/12
Five year sharesave scheme granted  50,121 57,740 Continuous service 01/07/13 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/14
Three year sharesave scheme granted  409,119 481,635 Continuous service 01/07/12 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/13
Five year sharesave scheme granted  384,105 400,441 Continuous service 01/07/14 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/15
Three year sharesave scheme granted  77,920 – Continuous service 01/07/13 –
to other employees 21 May 2010    01/01/14
Five year sharesave scheme granted  66,406 – Continuous service 01/07/15 –
to other employees 21 May 2010    01/01/16 
Headlam Group Co-investment  468,828 – If the real earnings per share growth 08/10/13 –
Plan 2008 granted to key management   is over 3%pa – 50% vesting, over 08/10/20 
8 October 2010*   6%-100% vesting. TSR – if company 
      is ranked at median or above 
      – 50%, upper quartile –100%   
Total share options 2,895,667 2,407,066  
    
*Further details on pages 39 and 40 of the Remuneration Report.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 88
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
 
Share-based payments – Group and company continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
      Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
      exercise Number of exercise Number of
      price options price options
      2010  2010 2009 2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    336.6 2,407,066 379.5 2,115,855
Exercised during the year     222.2 (3,044) – –
Granted during the year     63.5 627,736 222.2 895,909
Lapsed during the year     244.0 (136,091) 320.1 (604,698)
Outstanding at the end of the year    281.9 2,895,667 336.6 2,407,066
Exercisable at the end of the year    413.8 1,340,404 411.4 1,357,234
The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 281.2p, there were no options exercised during 2009.
Share options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 215.0p to 420.0p and a weighted average contractual life  
of 3.7 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
It is expected that the options will be exercised as soon as they reach maturity. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the share options.
Details of share options granted during 2010 are shown below:
       3 year 3 year 5 year
       Co-investment Sharesave Sharesave 
2010      plan 2008 options options
Number of options      468,828 86,307 72,601
Fair value at measurement date      279.6p 93.1p 96.9p
Share price at 31 December      313.5p 313.5p 313.5p
Exercise price      – 251p 251p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility  
 used in the modelling under the Black-Scholes model)    45.7% 45.7% 43.5%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the  
 modelling under the Black-Scholes model)     3 years 3 years 5 years
Expected dividends      3.7% 5.1% 5.1%
Risk-free interest rate (based on UK Gilts)     0.9% 1.3% 2.3% Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
 
Share-based payments – Group and company continued
Details of share options granted during 2009 are shown below:
        3 year 5 year
        Sharesave Sharesave 
2009       options options
Number of options       495,468 400,441
Fair value at measurement date       76.2p 67.4p
Share price at 31 December       300.3p 300.3p
Exercise price       222.2p 222.2p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used  
 in the modelling under the Black-Scholes model)     48.6% 42.2%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the  
 modelling under the Black-Scholes model)      3 years 5 years
Expected dividends       7.6% 7.6%
Risk-free interest rate (based on UK Gilts)      2.1% 2.8%
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
    Group Company Subsidiaries
    2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Share options granted in 2006 under 
 the SAYE 3 year scheme   – 30 – 1 – 29
Share options granted in 2006 under  
 the SAYE 5 year scheme   35 36 – – 35 36
Share options granted in 2008 under  
 the SAYE 3 year scheme   93 101 – – 93 101
Share options granted in 2008 under  
 the SAYE 5 year scheme   63 67 – – 63 67
Share options granted in 2009 under  
 the SAYE 3 year scheme   102 63 3 1 99 62
Share options granted in 2009 under  
 the SAYE 5 year scheme   30 19 1 1 29 18
Share options granted in 2010 under  
 the SAYE 3 year scheme   16 – – – 16 –
Share options granted in 2010 under  
 the SAYE 5 year scheme   9 – – – 9 –
Shares granted in 2010 under the  
  Co-investment Plan 2008   100 – 43  57 –
Total expense recognised   448 316 47 3 401 313
 
21 OTHER LONG TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – GROUP
During the year, the group operated an employment indemnity scheme in connection with a foreign subsidiary to provide for lump sum cash 
payments due to employees retiring on their normal retirement date. The present value of the retirement indemnity obligation at 31 December 
2010 is £286,000 (2009: £309,000). Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 90
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital
      Ordinary shares
        2010 2009
Number of shares
On issue at 1 January and 31 December – fully paid     85,363,743 85,363,743
  
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid    
Ordinary shares of 5p each       4,268 4,268
        4,268 4,268
Shares classified as liabilities       – –
Shares classified in shareholders funds      4,268 4,268
        4,268 4,268
At 31 December 2010, there were 2,245,603 (2009: 2,248,647) shares held in treasury. Dividends are not payable on these shares and they 
are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share. The shares held in treasury represent 2.6% of the issued share capital with a nominal 
value of £112,000.
In the period from 31 December 2010 to 11 March 2011 no shares have been purchased by the company.
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings  
of the company.
Dividends
        2010 2009
        £000  £000
Interim dividend for 2009 of 3.70p paid 2 January 2010     3,072 –
Final dividend for 2009 of 7.30p paid 1 July 2010     6,060 –
Interim dividend for 2008 of 5.60p paid 2 January 2009     – 4,649
Final dividend for 2008 of 14.10p paid 1 July 2009     – 11,705
        9,132 16,354
The final proposed dividend of 8.57p per share (2009:7.30p per share) will not be provided for until authorised by shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Interim dividends of 3.83p per share (2009: 3.70p per share) are provided for when the dividend is paid.
The total value of dividends proposed but not recognised at 31 December 2010 is £10,294,000 (2009: £9,132,000). Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued
Reserves
Other reserves
Other reserves as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position comprise the capital redemption reserve, translation reserve, cash flow  
hedging reserve and treasury reserve. For the company this also includes a special reserve.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and cancelled during 2007.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Treasury reserve
The treasury reserve compromises the cost of the company’s shares held by the group.
Special reserve
The special reserve arose on the issuance of shares in connection with acquisitions made by the company in earlier years. 
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The main financial risks arising in the normal course of the group’s business are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks arising from interest rate 
risk and foreign currency risk. This note presents information about the group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for measuring and managing risks and the group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout 
these Financial Statements.
Credit risk and credit quality 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations  
and arises principally from the group’s trade receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset and as at the Statement of Financial Position 
date, in the directors’ opinion there were no significant concentrations of credit risk likely to cause financial loss to the group.
The group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on 
all new customers requiring credit and these are frequently reviewed by management to limit exposure. Businesses must obtain approval from 
executive directors or senior executive management for credit limits in excess of £10,000. The group does not require collateral in respect of 
financial assets. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 92
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Credit risk and credit quality continued
The credit control procedures described above, coupled with the diversified nature of the group’s trade receivables, lead the directors to believe 
that there is limited credit risk exposure and that the credit quality of these assets is robust.
Other receivables comprise amounts due to the group which historically have been received within 3 months of the year end. The directors  
have considered the inherent risk profile of other receivables at the year end and are of the view that this historical experience will prevail  
for the foreseeable future and accordingly consider the credit quality of these assets to be robust.
Cash and cash equivalents represent deposits with reputable financial institutions in the UK and Continental Europe. Notwithstanding the 
deteriorating economic circumstances during 2008 and 2009 and the consequential impact on the financial services sector, the directors 
consider the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents to be robust.
The carrying amount of financial assets at the Statement of Financial Position date was:
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables (note 15)    102,240 101,149 27,924 27,153
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16)    44,758 45,737 23,369 27,473
      146,998 146,886 51,293 54,626
The fair values of the above financial assets at both 31 December 2010 and 2009, are deemed to approximate to carrying value due to the 
short term maturity of the instruments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the Statement of Financial Position date by geographic region was:
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
UK     64,944 63,231 – –
Continental Europe     13,934 15,873 – –
      78,878 79,104 – – Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Credit risk and credit quality continued
The ageing of trade receivables at the Statement of Financial Position date was:
     2010 2009
      Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Not past due     74,808 – 74,760 –
Past due 0 - 30 days     3,313 (554) 3,718 (505)
Past due 31 - 120 days     3,684 (2,373) 3,427 (2,296)
      81,805 (2,927) 81,905 (2,801)
The company had trade receivables of £nil (2009:£nil).
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January     2,801 3,078 – –
Impairment loss     2,160 2,493 – –
Amounts utilised     (2,031) (2,690) – –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange    (3) (80) – –
Balance at 31 December     2,927 2,801 – –
Based on historic default rates, the group believes that no general impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables, however,  
the group provides fully for specific debts when required. During the year the group’s impairment loss as a percentage of revenue amounted  
to 0.40% (2009: 0.47%).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach to managing 
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to 
cope with abnormal market conditions. As at 31 December 2010 cash and cash equivalents covered the amounts of borrowings maturing in 
the next twelve months with a net positive liquidity of £44,533,000 (2009: £44,079,000). Details of the total facilities that the group has 
access to are given in note 18. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 94
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
    Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5 More than
31 December 2010   amount cash flows or less years years 5 years 
Group   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities      
Unsecured bank loans   34,236 (35,623) (729) (30,527) (1,256) (3,111)
Trade and other payables   138,365 (138,365) (138,365) – – –
    172,601 (173,988) (139,094) (30,527) (1,256) (3,111)
      
    Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5 More than 
31 December 2009   amount cash flows or less years years 5 years 
Group   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities      
Bank overdraft   758 (768) (768) – – –
Unsecured bank loans   35,292 (37,166) (1,404) (714) (31,588) (3,460)
Trade and other payables   132,255 (132,255) (132,255) – – –
      
Derivative financial liabilities      
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  224 (224) (224) – – –
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging  20 (20) (20) – – –
    168,549 (170,433) (134,671) (714) (31,588) (3,460)
       Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
     Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5
31 December 2010    amount cash flows or less years years 
Company    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans    30,000 (30,587) (391) (30,196) –
Trade and other payables    38,552 (38,552) (38,552) – –
     68,552 (69,139) (38,943) (30,196) –
     
     Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5 
31 December 2009    amount cash flows or less years years 
Company    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans    30,000 (30,913) (365) (365) (30,182)
Trade and other payables    41,181 (41,181) (41,181) – –
     
Derivative financial liabilities     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging   224 (224) (224) – –
     71,405 (72,318) (41,770) (365) (30,182)
The value of the group’s financial liabilities as detailed above at 31 December 2010 and 2009 were not materially different to the carrying 
value. Fair values were calculated using market rates, where available. Where market values are not available, fair values have been estimated 
by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the 
exchange rate prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position date. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 96
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
The table below sets out the group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
       Other
       derivatives  Total 
     Available Designated at fair Amortised carrying 
     for sale hedges value cost value 
31 December 2010    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents    44,758 – – – 44,758
Borrowings due within one year    – – – (225) (225)
Borrowings due after one year    – – – (34,011) (34,011)
Trade payables    – – – (114,225) (114,225)
Trade receivables    – – – 78,878 78,878
Derivative assets    – – 111 – 111
     44,758 – 111 (69,583) (24,714)
       Other 
       derivatives  Total 
     Available Designated at fair Amortised carrying 
     for sale hedges value cost value 
31 December 2009    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents    45,737 – – – 45,737
Bank overdrafts    – – – (758) (758)
Borrowings due within one year    – – – (900) (900)
Borrowings due after one year    – – – (34,392) (34,392)
Trade payables    – – – (106,494) (106,494)
Trade receivables    – – – 79,104 79,104
Derivative liabilities    – (224) (20) – (244)
     45,737 (224) (20) (63,440) (17,947)
Under IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The 
group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks 
arising from underlying business activities. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest rate risk
The company and group are exposed to interest rate fluctuations on their borrowings and cash deposits. Borrowings are principally held in 
sterling and euros at both fixed and floating rates, deposits are in sterling, euros and Swiss francs at floating rates. 
 
Floating rate borrowings are linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate and Euribor Over Night Index Average. The group adopts a policy of 
reviewing its floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise the effect on the group’s income statement is manageable. In accordance with 
this policy, and in order to manage it’s exposure to UK interest rates, the group entered into two interest rate swaps in 2008 to fix £30 million of its 
sterling denominated borrowings. The first interest rate swap matured in October 2009 and the second matured in April 2010. These interest rate 
swaps have been designated as a hedging instrument and accounted for as a cash flow hedge in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
The fair values of these interest rate swaps are included in the Statement of Financial Position as a derivative liability of £nil (2009:£224,000).
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
     Group Company
     Carrying amount Carrying amount
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Variable rate instruments    
Financial assets     44,758 45,737 23,369 27,473
Financial liabilities     (34,236) (36,050) (30,000) (30,000)
      10,522 9,687 (6,631) (2,527)
There were no fixed rate instruments held by the group at 31 December 2010 (2009: £nil).
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in the interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis is 
performed on the same basis for 2009.
   Group  Company
   Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss Equity
  100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 
  increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
        
31 December 2010        
Variable rate instruments 105 (105) – – (66) 66 – –
        
31 December 2009        
Variable rate instruments 197 (197) – – 75 (75) – – Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 98
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Foreign currency risk
The group and company are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates arising from transaction currency cash flows and the translation  
of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily the euro and Swiss franc.
The group and company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge their foreign currency transactional risk. A future foreign currency contract 
would be entered into where there was a known requirement for the currency due to planned imports that are not invoiced in sterling. These 
forward exchange contracts would have a maturity of less than one year after the Statement of Financial Position date. The group also enters 
into foreign currency contracts at spot rate where the amounts are not frequent or material. Gains and losses on currency contracts recognised 
as an asset as at 31 December 2010 amounted to £111,000 (2009: liability £20,000).
For the twelve month period to 31 December 2010, 9.8% (2009: 10.0%) of the group’s operating profit was derived from overseas 
subsidiaries and at 31 December 2010, 23.7% (2009: 22.5%) of the group’s operating net assets related to overseas subsidiaries. Hedge 
accounting, following the adoption of IFRS, has not been applied to these operations.
The group and company do not use derivatives other than as described above.
The group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows:
    Group  Company
    Euro Other  Euro Other 
    amount amount Total amount amount Total 
2010   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables   178 180 358 82 17 99
Cash and cash equivalents   635 662 1,297 85 1 86
Trade and other payables   (1,340) (889) (2,229) – – –
    (527) (47) (574) 167 18 185
    Group  Company
    Euro Other  Euro Other 
    amount amount Total amount amount Total 
2009   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables   279 144 423 56 12 68
Cash and cash equivalents   319 387 706 234 1 235
Trade and other payables   (1,064) (666) (1,730) – – –
    (466) (135) (601) 290 13 303 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Sensitivity analysis
A 10% weakening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by  
the amounts shown below, there is no equity effect. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.  
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009.
     Group Company
      2010 2009 2010 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Euro     (53) (47) 17 29
Other     (5) (14) 2 1
A 10% strengthening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above 
currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Fair values hierarchy
The financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised according to their valuation method. The different levels have been defined below:
•	 Level	1:	quoted	prices	(unadjusted)	in	active	markets	for	identical	assets	or	liabilities.
• 	 	 L e v e l 	 2 : 	 i n p u t s 	 o t h e r 	 t h a n 	 q u o t e d 	 p r i c e s 	 i n c l u d e d 	 w i t h i n 	 L e v e l 	 1 	 t h a t 	 a r e 	 o b s e r v a b l e 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 a s s e t 	 o r 	 l i a b i l i t y , 	 e i t h e r 	 d i r e c t l y , 	 a s 	 p r i c e s 	 or	
indirectly, derived from prices.
•	 Level	3:	inputs	for	the	asset	or	liability	that	are	not	based	on	obser vable	market	data	(unobser vable	inputs).
The group had no interest rate swaps used for hedging at the Statement of Financial Position date (2009: fair valued in accordance with level 2). 
Forward currency contracts were fair valued in accordance with level 2 (2009: level 3).
Fair values
The carrying amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position for financial instruments are a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents – Fair values are assumed to approximate to cost due to the short term maturity 
of the instrument.
Borrowings, other financial assets and other financial liabilities – Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest  
rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position date.
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 100
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Capital management
The group views its finance capital resources as primarily comprising share capital, bank loans and operating cash flow.
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The board closely monitors its shareholder base, dividend yield and earnings per share.
The board encourages employees of the group to hold the company’s ordinary shares and operates a number of employee share option 
schemes. The company has acquired a number of its own shares under a share buy-back programme, which at the present time, it does not 
intend to do in the foreseeable future, some of these shares have been used for issuing shares under the group’s various share option incentive 
schemes.
Certain of the company’s subsidiaries are required to maintain issued share capital at levels to support capital adequacy requirements prevailing  
in the legislative environment in which they operate.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends made payable to shareholders, as it has this 
year, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
No changes were made to the capital management objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2010 and  
31 December 2009.
24 OPERATING LEASES
The aggregate payments, for which there are commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year, fall due as follows:
Group      
    2010  2009
    Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
    buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year   748 6,407 7,155 423 1,153 1,576
Between one and five years   1,994 9,932 11,926 2,738 16,546 19,284
More than five years   2,313 26 2,339 3,406 17 3,423
    5,055 16,365 21,420 6,567 17,716 24,283
Company      
    2010  2009
    Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
    buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year   18 6 24 18 7 25
Between one and five years   74 – 74 74 6 80
More than five years   1,396 – 1,396 1,414 – 1,414
    1,488 6 1,494 1,506 13 1,519
      
The group leases the majority of its motor and commercial vehicles on terms that range between three and five years, and during the year ended  
31 December 2010, total operating lease expense of £10,702,000 was recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (2009: £10,952,000). Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101
Accounts
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
25 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £421,000  
(2009: £225,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
Company
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the company entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £nil (2009: £nil). 
26 RELATED PARTIES
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key personnel
The group’s key personnel are the executive and non-executive directors and senior executive management as identified on page 22.
As at 31 December 2010, directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 1.5% of the voting shares of the company 
(2009:1.6%).
Non-executive directors receive a fee for their services to the board.
Other than disclosed in the Remuneration Report, there were no other transactions with key management personnel in either the current  
or preceding year. The cost charged to administrative expenses relating to share plans of key personnel amounted to £39,000 (2009: £2,000).
Company only
In addition to the transactions with key personnel the company has the following transactions:
Transactions with other group companies 
      Highest Balance at Highest Balance at
      during 31 December during 31 December
      the year 2010 the year 2009
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts due from subsidiaries     27,282 27,282 26,820 26,820
Amounts due to subsidiaries     (33,058) (33,058) (33,403) (33,403)
The disclosure of the year end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered to provide a meaningful representation of 
transactions between the company and its subsidiaries in the year. The highest balance is generally at the start or close of the financial year since 
this is the time when the company levies its recharge of its operating expenses. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 102
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
26 RELATED PARTIES continued
Related party transactions reported in the income statement
        For year For year
        ended ended
        31 December 31 December
        2010 2009
        £000 £000
Rental income        6,291 5,942
Dividends received       14,526 1,375
Recharge of operating expenses      2,294 1,659
Interest income       242 259
Pension recharge       239 236
27 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The directors have given due consideration to any events occurring in the period from the reporting date to the date these Financial Statements were 
authorised for issue and have concluded that there are no material adjusting or non-adjusting events to be disclosed in these Financial Statements. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103
Accounts
Principal Trading Subsidiaries
          Place of 
          incorporation
 
•	 HFD	Limited	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Great	Britain
•	 	 MCD	Group	Limited	 	 	 	 	 	 Great	Britain 
Headlam BV       Netherlands 
LMS SA        France
•	 Belcolor	AG	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Switzerland
All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned and are principally engaged as a distributor of floorcoverings and associated products.
•	 These	subsidiaries	are	owned	directly	by	Headlam	Group	plc.	The	investment	in	subsidiaries	comprises	ordinar y	share	capital. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 104
Financial Record 
     2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trading results     
Revenue    509,899 544,718 557,296 533,793 535,690
Operating profit    43,941 46,013 41,722 24,758 26,066
Profit before net financing costs    3,941 46,013 41,722 24,758 26,066
Net financing costs    (383) (841) (1,602) (2,694) (1,060)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax   43,558 45,172 40,120 22,064 25,006
Taxation    (13,067) (13,534) (11,433) (6,168) (7,127)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation   30,491 31,638 28,687 15,896 17,879
Shareholder value     
Paid dividend per share    18.00p 20.15p 23.10p 19.70p 11.00p
Proposed dividend per share    20.15p 23.10p 19.70p 11.00p 12.40p
Earnings per share     35.1p 37.1p 34.5p 19.1p 21.5p
Net assets
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment    85,032 92,097 99,741 96,530 97,215
Intangible assets    13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210
Deferred tax assets    5,517 2,106 1,516 4,731 896
     103,759 107,413 114,467 114,471 111,321
Current assets     
Inventories    94,217 101,491 107,597 99,637 105,694
Trade and other receivables    91,284 100,830 105,942 101,149 102,240
Cash and cash equivalents    41,861 16,805 35,193 45,737 44,758
Assets held for sale    – – – 2,275 362
     227,362 219,126 248,732 248,798 253,054
Total assets    331,121 326,539 363,199 363,269 364,375
Current liabilities     
Bank overdraft    (1,010) (103) – (758) –
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings   (267) – (4,506) (900) (225)
Trade and other payables    (149,422) (154,320) (143,369) (143,216) (149,476)
Employee benefits    (1,102) (1,491) (2,428) (2,506) (2,586)
Income tax payable    (10,184) (10,747) (9,546) (8,615) (4,201)
     (161,985) (166,661) (159,849) (155,995) (156,488)
Non-current liabilities     
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings   – – (30,000) (34,392) (34,011)
Employee benefits    (16,124) (9,837) (12,216) (20,253) (10,138)
     (16,124) (9,837) (42,216) (54,645) (44,149)
Total liabilities    (178,109) (176,498) (202,065) (210,640) (200,637)
Net assets    153,012 150,041 161,134 152,629 163,738 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105
Accounts
Notice of AGM 
Notice is hereby given that the sixty third Annual General Meeting of Headlam Group plc will be held at the group’s distribution facility located 
at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW on Friday 17 June 2011 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business
1.   To receive, consider and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Report and the Independent Auditor’s Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2010.
2.  To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 8.57 pence per ordinary share.
3.   To elect as a director Andrew Eastgate who was appointed since the date of the last Notice of AGM (“Notice”) and who is retiring 
in accordance with the company’s articles. 
4.  To re-elect as a director Tony Brewer who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
5.   To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the company from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
6.  To authorise the directors to determine the Independent Auditor’s remuneration.
7.  To approve the director’s Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2010.
As special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions  
9 to 12 will be proposed as special resolutions:
8.  Authority to allot shares
  (a)  that the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”)  
to allot shares in the company, and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the company, up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £1,122,500 for a period expiring (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in 
general meeting) at the end of the 2012 AGM (or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2012), and save that the company 
may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for  
or convert any security into shares to be granted, after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot shares and grant rights  
in	pursuance	of	any	such	of fer	or	agreement	as	if	this	authority	had	not	expired;
  (b)  that, subject to paragraph (c), all existing authorities given to the directors pursuant to section 551 of the Act be revoked by this 
resolution;	and	
  (c)  that paragraph (b) shall be without prejudice to the continuing authority of the directors to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or 
convert any security into shares pursuant to an offer or agreement made by the company before the expiry of the authority pursuant to 
which such offer or agreement was made.
9.  Dis-application of pre-emption rights
   that, subject to the passing of resolution 8 in this Notice and in place of all existing powers to allot securities given to the directors, the 
directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 
of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 in this Notice, as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to the 
allotment. This power: 
  (a)  expires (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting) at the end of the 2012 AGM if passed 
(or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2012), save that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement 
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance 
of	any	such	of fer	or	agreement	as	if	this	power	had	not	expired;	and	
   Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 106
Notice of AGM 
continued
  (b) shall be limited to:
   (i)  the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue to holders of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the company 
in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings and to people who hold other equity securities, if this is 
required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities and  
so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate 
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, 
any	territor y	or	any	other	matter;	and
   (ii)  the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 12(b)(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000.
    This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as if,  
in the first paragraph of this resolution, the words “pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 in this Notice” were omitted.
10. Authority to purchase own shares
   that the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make market purchases 
(within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the company, subject to the following conditions:
	 	 (a)	 the	maximum	number	of	ordinar y	shares	which	may	be	purchased	is	8,536,000;
	 	 (b	)	 the	minimum	price	(exclusive	of	expenses)	which	may	be	paid	for	an	ordinar y	share	is	5	pence;
  (c)  the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount equal to 105%  
of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange  
Daily	Official	List	for	the	five	business	days	immediately	preceding	the	day	on	which	the	share	is	contracted	to	be	purchased;	and	(ii)	
an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid  
for	an	ordinar y	share	as	derived	from	the	London	Stock	Exchange	T rading	System;	and
  (d)  the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business on  
30 June 2012 (except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was made before the expiry of this authority and 
which might be concluded wholly or partly after such expiry).
11. Shareholder rights directive
   that the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings (other than annual general meetings) 
on 14 days’ clear notice from the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM 
of the company to be held in 2012 or 30 June 2012, whichever is the earlier.
12. Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008
   that the Remuneration committee be and it is hereby authorised to adopt the amendments to the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 
(the “Co-Investment Plan”) shown in the version of the Co-Investment Plan rules which have been produced to the meeting and initialled by 
the Chairman (for the purposes of identification) and a summary of the main provisions of which amendments is set out in the explanatory 
notes on page 112 and to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to the same. 
By order of the board
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
11 March 2011
Headlam Group plc
Registered No. 460129, England
Registered office:
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107
Accounts
Notice of AGM 
continued
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM
Notes 1 to 16 below give further explanation as to the proxy, voting and attendance procedures at the AGM.
1. Entitlement to appoint proxies.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.  
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached 
to a different share or shares held by that member. A proxy need not be a member of the company. Appointment of a proxy will not preclude 
a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting. To appoint more than one proxy, a member must complete a photocopy of the 
enclosed proxy card or obtain additional forms from Capita Registrars, telephone 0871 6640300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
charges). Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday. Please also indicate by ticking the relevant box if the proxy appointment is one 
of multiple appointments being made. Multiple proxy appointments should be returned together in the same envelope. Enter in the box provided  
the number of shares in relation to which your proxy is authorised or leave the box blank to authorise your proxy to act in relation to your full  
voting entitlement.
2. Appointing proxies
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed (or a notarially  
certified copy of such power or authority) must reach Capita Registrars, Proxies Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting. A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
3. Electronic proxy appointment through Crest
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members  
who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) who will be able to take  
the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (“Euroclear UK & Ireland”) specifications and 
must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes 
the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted 
so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 2 above. For this 
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by CREST application host) 
from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change 
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland does 
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timing and limitations will, therefore, apply in 
relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a 
CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular,  
to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST systems and timing.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified Securities 
Regulations 2001.
4. Joint holders
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion 
of the votes of the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register 
of members in respect of the joint holding. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 108
Notice of AGM 
continued
5. Entitlement to attend and vote
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of 
members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the AGM is 6.00 p.m. on 15 June 2011 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 p.m.  
on the date two days before the date for the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded 
in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
6. Nominated person
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy nomination rights (a “Nominated Person”) 
you may, under an agreement between you and the member of the company who has nominated you, have a right to be appointed (or have 
someone else appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If you do not have such a proxy appointment right, or you do but do not wish to exercise 
it, you may have a right to give instructions to the member who has appointed you as to the exercise of voting rights. If you are a Nominated 
Person, the statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply. Such rights can only be exercised 
by a registered member of the company.
7. Issued share capital
As at 11 March 2011 the company’s issued share capital, including treasury shares, consisted of 85,363,743 ordinary shares of 5p (“shares”). 
Of these 2,243,572 shares were held in treasury, the voting rights and entitlement to dividend of which were automatically suspended. 
Accordingly the total number of voting rights in the company as at that date was 83,120,171.
8. Right to ask questions
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with 
section 319A of the Act. In certain circumstances prescribed by section 319A of the Act, the company need not answer a question.
9. Shareholder requests under section 527 of the Act
Under section 527 Companies Act 2006, members of the company representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the company or at  
least 100 members who have a right to vote and hold shares in the company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member 
of at least £100, may require the company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the company’s 
accounts or any circumstances connected with KPMG Audit Plc ceasing to hold office since the last AGM that the members propose to raise  
at the meeting. Where the company is required to publish such a statement on its website, it may not require the members making the request  
to pay its expenses in complying with the request. The company must forward the statement to the company’s auditor not later than the time  
when it makes the statement available on its website. The business of the meeting includes any such statement that the company has been 
required to publish on its website.
10. Non-shareholder attendance
Persons who are not shareholders in the company will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior arrangements are made with the company.
11. Access arrangements
Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the meeting, please contact the company so that appropriate arrangements can  
be made.
12. Communicating with the company in relation to the AGM
Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the company in relation to the AGM should do so using the following means:
(a)	 	 	 by	writing	to	the	Company	Secretar y	at	the	company’ s	registered	office	address	at	Gorsey	Lane,	Coleshill,	Bir mingham,	B46	1L W ;
  or
(b)  by writing to : Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA.
No other methods of communication will be accepted. In particular, you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice or  
in any related documents (including, without limitation, the Annual Report and Accounts 2010 and the form(s) of proxy) to communicate with  
the company for any purpose other than those expressly stated in this Notice or in such other related documents. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109
Accounts
Notice of AGM 
continued
13. Inspection of documents
Copies of the directors’ service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors’ transactions in the 
company’s shares during the year and the written terms of reference for each of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination committees will be 
available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday (Saturday, Sundays and public 
holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available  
for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting. There are no service agreements between any director  
and any subsidiary of the company.
14. Voting results
The results of the voting at the AGM will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on our website www.headlam.com.
15. Website
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.headlam.com.
16. Data protection statement
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and  
contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number (attributed to you by the company). The company determines the purposes for 
which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed. The company and any third party to which it discloses the data (including 
the company’s Registrars) may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the company’s records, fulfilling its legal 
obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 110
Explanatory Notes 
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 17 June 2011 at 10.00 a.m.
A description of the resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting is set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 8 (inclusive) are proposed as ordinary resolutions which means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, more than  
half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution. Resolutions 9 to 12 (inclusive) are proposed as special resolutions which means  
that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 1 – Annual Report and Accounts
The company is required by law to present to shareholders at the AGM its audited accounts and the directors and independent auditors’  
reports for the financial year ended 31 December 2010. Shareholders are invited to vote to receive and adopt the Annual Report and  
Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Resolution 2 – Declaration of dividend
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.57p on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, which together with the 
interim dividend of 3.83p, gives a total dividend of 12.40p for the year ended 31 December 2010. Subject to approval of the declaration  
of the final dividend at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2011 to the holders of ordinary shares whose names are recorded  
on the register of members at the close of business on 3 June 2011.
Resolution 3 – Election of Andrew Eastgate as a director
Andrew Eastgate was appointed to the board on 17 May 2010, before the 2010 AGM but after the Notice of the 2010 AGM had  
been sent to shareholders and, in accordance with the company’s articles, offers himself for election at the forthcoming AGM. Andrew was 
formerly a partner in Pinsent Masons and head of the corporate practice in Birmingham. Andrew has a broad experience of advising quoted 
companies, particularly in connection with transactions and compliance issues. In accordance with the recommendations of the combined 
code relating to non-executive directors, the board believes that Andrew Eastgate should be elected and makes such a recommendation to 
shareholders. 
Resolution 4 – Re-election of Tony Brewer as a director
Tony Brewer is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by shareholders. Under the 
articles, directors are required to retire every three years. Tony was appointed an executive director in June 1991 becoming Managing Director 
of the Floorcoverings Division in 1992 and Group Chief Executive in November 2000. The board believes that Tony Brewer should be re-elected 
and makes such a recommendation to shareholders. 
Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditor
The company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company, to hold office until the 
end of the next such meeting. This resolution proposes the appointment of an auditor. KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 6 – Agreement of Auditor remuneration
In addition to the company’s requirement to appoint an auditor, shareholder authority is sought for the directors to determine the remuneration  
to be paid to the auditor for the period of appointment.
Resolution 7 – Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholders are being asked to approve the 2010 director’s Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 36 to 46 of the company’s Annual 
Report and Accounts. Whilst the payment of remuneration to the directors is not dependent on the passing of the resolution, the board will take 
the vote into account when considering the future development and operation of the company’s remuneration policy and practice. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111
Accounts
Explanatory Notes 
continued
Special Business – Resolutions 8 to 12
Resolution 8 – Authority to allot shares
Shareholders are being asked to pass the necessary resolution to grant to the directors a general authority, for the purpose of section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006, to allot relevant securities. On this occasion the proposed general authority is to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares (27% of the company’s ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) in issue at 
11 March 2011 (the latest practical date prior to the publication of this report)). As at 11 March 2011, the company held 2,243,572 treasury 
shares, which represented approximately 2.70% of the company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares), which the company can 
cancel or hold for sale or use to meet the obligations under the company’s employee share schemes.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2012, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2012. Your directors have no current 
intention of exercising this authority except in connection with the company’s employee share schemes.
Resolution 9 – Dis-application of pre-emption rights
Shareholders are being asked to pass a resolution to empower the directors to allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash as if section 
561 of the Companies Act 2006 (which gives shareholders certain pre-emption rights on the issue of shares or rights to subscribe for or convert 
securities into shares) did not apply to any such allotment. The authority allows the issue or sale of shares of up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares in respect of rights issues and other issues pro-rata to existing entitlements, and also 
allows issues or sales for cash (other than in relation to a rights issue) limited to shares having an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000  
(5% of the company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 11 March 2011). The authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held  
in 2012 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2012. 
The directors confirm that they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with The Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles available at www.pre-emptiongroup.org.uk, the directors also confirm their 
intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) will be issued for cash on a non-pre-
emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
Resolution 10 – Purchase of own shares
The directors believe that it is in the interests of the company and its members to continue to have the flexibility to purchase its own shares  
and this resolution seeks authority from members to do so. The directors intend only to exercise this authority where, after considering market 
conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such exercise would be to increase the earnings per share and be in the best 
interests of shareholders generally. The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the number of shares in issue or the directors may  
elect to hold them in treasury pursuant to the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (the “Regulations”), 
which came into force on 1 December 2003. The Regulations enable certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative  
to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by a company in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Shares held in treasury 
may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under a company’s employee share scheme. 
Once held in treasury, a company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the  
shares. Further, no dividend or other distribution of the company’s assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
This resolution renews the authority given at the AGM held on 25 June 2010. The authority is in respect of 10% of the company’s issued  
ordinary share capital as at 11 March 2011 and will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2012 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2012. 
The resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought. If the company buys any of its shares under  
the authority proposed by resolution 10, the board will decide at the time whether to cancel them immediately or hold them in treasury.  
The purchase of shares will be dependent on market conditions and will also take into account the cash generated in the business and  
other investment opportunities that may arise over time. During the year the company made no purchases of its own shares.
Details of share options outstanding and treasury share movements including details of own shares acquired by the company are shown 
respectively in notes 20 and 22 to the Financial Statements. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 112
Explanatory Notes 
continued
Resolution 11 – Shareholder rights directive
This will be proposed as a special resolution to approve the holding of general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 days’ notice. Although 
the company’s articles currently permit this, regulations came into force on 3 August 2009 to implement the Shareholder Rights Directive in the 
UK. These regulations require a shareholder resolution to be passed to authorise general meetings to be held on 14 days’ notice. Without the 
passing of resolution 11, the minimum notice period under the regulations would be 21 days. If resolution 11 is passed by the shareholders, the 
regulations would only allow the company to call a general meeting on 14 days’ notice if it were to make a system of electronic voting available 
to its shareholders in respect of the meeting in question. The directors consider it to be in the best interest of shareholders to pass resolution 11, 
which is a repeat of the same resolution passed at last year’s AGM, in order to prevent being constrained by the regulations implementing the 
directive. It will be necessary for a similar resolution to be put to shareholders at each subsequent AGM. It is intended that this flexibility will  
only be used for non-routine business and where merited in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 12 – Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 
The Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the “Co-Investment Plan”) was approved by the company’s shareholders at the AGM on  
20 June 2008 at which time it was envisaged that at the date of the first award in 2008, existing shareholdings up to a maximum of one times 
base salary, could be used for the purposes of matching. As no awards were made in 2008, certain amendments were sought and approved  
at the 25 June 2010 AGM such that this authority to use existing shareholdings up to a value of one times base salary could be applied in 
respect of the first award made under the Co-Investment Plan. Whilst the first awards were made in 2010, these were for 25% of base salary. 
Approval is sought to amend the Plan rules such that existing shareholdings may be used in subsequent awards for matching purposes subject to 
an aggregate of one times base salary. 
The directors believe that the decision to scale back the first year opportunity and the proposed amendment to the rules of the Co-Investment Plan 
are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders for the following reasons:
•	 	 the	cost	of	the	award	in	2010	is	reduced	to	25%	of	base	salar y .
•	 	 	 the	proposals	do	not	increase	the	overall	level	of	awards	to	executive	directors	and	other	par ticipants	in	the	for m	of	matching	shares.
•	 	 the	Co-Investment	Plan	is	currently	the	company’ s	only	long-ter m	incentive	vehicle.
•	 	 	 the	committee	has	not	yet	implemented	the	2008	Per for mance	Share	Plan	nor	does	it	intend	to	do	so	in	2011	and	it	has	not	granted	any	
option awards under the 2008 Option Schemes. 
• 	 	 e x e c u t i v e 	 d i r e c t o r s 	 a r e 	 r e q u i r e d 	 t o 	 c o m m i t 	 s h a r e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 C o - I n v e s t m e n t 	 P l a n 	 i n 	 o r d e r 	 t o 	 r e c e i v e 	 m a t c h i n g 	 a w a r d s 	 o f 	 s h a r e s . 	 T h i s 	 c o m m i t m e n t	
is greater  than established UK market practice for executive directors to be eligible for long-term incentive awards without the need to commit 
any of their own shares or funds. 
The rules of the Plan marked to show the proposed amendment will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company from the 
date of this Notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available for inspection at the place of 
the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113
Accounts
Shareholder Information
Shareholder helpline
The company’s shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars (“Capita”), who are responsible for making dividend payments and 
updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders’ addresses and purchases or sales of company shares. If you have a question 
about your shareholding in the company you should contact: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, 
HD8 0LA. email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com, telephone 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p plus network extras). Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm 
Monday to Friday.
Frequent shareholder enquiries
If you change your address 
Please notify Capita in writing. If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by all named shareholders.
If you change your name
Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost share certificates
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately. A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign. Capita will charge 
for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts
If you receive more than one copy of the company’s communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two accounts.  
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, call Capita to 
request the accounts are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK
If you wish to trade in the comapny’s shares, you can do so at Capita’s website, www.capitadeal.com or alternatively use a stockbroker or high  
street bank which trades on the London Stock Exchange. There are many telephone and online services available. If you are selling, you will 
need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow, 
is available from Capita’s website www.capitaregistrars.com. Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no 
money being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information
Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers. Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are updated 
regularly throughout the trading day. For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker. Additionally there is a link to the 
London Stock Exchange on the company’s website.
The company’s website
The company’s website at www.headlam.com provides news, details of activities, and information on the share price. The investor information 
section of the website contains up to date information for shareholders including the company’s latest results and key dates such as dividend 
payment dates.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It may be especially 
useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains 
tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information can be 
obtained at www.sharegift.org.
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with financial 
institutions. It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many companies and can 
search for lost assets and entitlements. The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 10% of which goes to charity. 
For further information, visit www.uar.co.uk. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 114 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Registered office
Headlam Group plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
Tel: 01675 433000 
Fax: 01675 433030
Website
www.headlam.com
E-mail
headlamgroup@headlam.com
Registration
Registered in England and Wales
Number 460129
