 Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 01 Highlights
02 Financial Highlights
03 Development Highlights 
04 Market Presence
12 The Year in Review
12 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Review
20 Financial Review
24 Directors, Officers and Advisers
25 Accounts
25 Financial Calendar
26 Directors’ Report
31 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
 in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts  
 and the Financial Statements
32 Corporate Governance
38 Remuneration Report
49 Corporate and Social Responsibility
53 Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
 members of Headlam Group plc
54 Consolidated Income Statement
55 Consolidated Statement of 
 Comprehensive Income
56 Statements of Financial Position
57 Statement of Changes in Equity
59 Cash Flow Statements
60 Notes to the Financial Statements
104 Principal Trading Subsidiaries
105 Financial Record
106 Notice of AGM
109 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting
112 Explanatory Notes to the Proposed Resolutions
115 Summary of the main provisions of the Headlam Group  
 Sharesave Scheme 2012 (the “Sharesave Scheme”)
117 Shareholder Information Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     01
Highlights
The group’s operational strategy is focused on providing  
our customers with an up to date comprehensive range of 
competitively priced floorcovering products with the 
support of a next day delivery. 
As part of this strategy, Headlam offers its suppliers the 
opportunity to achieve wide market penetration backed  
by cost effective distribution.
In implementing this strategy, Headlam has developed  
a diverse and autonomous structure with 50 businesses  
in the UK and a further five in Continental Europe.
A key factor contributing to the group’s success is the 
individuality of experienced management teams who  
are responsible for the market presence, development  
and ultimate profitability of their business.
Headlam markets, supplies and distributes an extensive 
range of floorcovering products to independent flooring 
retailers and contractors throughout the UK, France, 
Switzerland and the Netherlands.
Each business is supported by the commitment to  
continued investment in people, product, facilities and IT.  
This commitment has provided the basis for the group’s 
growth and performance enabling it to develop into  
Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor.
   Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     01  02     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Earnings Per Share (p) Proposed Dividends (p)
Revenue (£m)
2010 2006 2008 2009 2007
533.8 535.7
544.7
557 .3
509.9
2011
2010 2006 2008 2009 2007 2011 2010 2006 2008 2009 2007 2011
Operating Profit (£m)
2010 2006 2008 2009 2007 2011
24.8
26.1
46.0
41.7
43.9
19.1
21.5
37.1
34.5 35.1
24.6
11.00
12.40
23.10
19.70
20.15
Financial Highlights
Highlights
569.8
28.1
14.15 Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     03
Highlights
Development Highlights
iPads
The introduction of iPads, in conjunction with the development of 
bespoke software, to all our sales people has undoubtedly been 
beneficial in further improving their working practices and time 
management and ultimately, provides an enhanced service to our 
customers. 
The iPads provide our sales people with improved visibility of 
real time customer data, the ability to access stock files to place 
orders and give an immediate flow of information on customer 
visits to our sales managers. An additional benefit is that our 
businesses’ extensive marketing literature and display information 
can be contained within the iPad for efficient demonstration to 
our customers.
Investment in infrastructure
We have agreed to acquire, subject to planning permission, 
land adjacent to the existing distribution centre in Coleshill in 
order to increase the size of the centre from 159,500 square 
feet to 283,800 square feet. This will provide the capacity to 
increase our central stock holding in certain product sectors 
to satisfy the demand from our regional distribution centres 
and manage our future working capital investment on  
a more efficient basis. The existing and proposed 
elevations are shown below and it is anticipated that  
the development will be complete by late Summer 2013.
Existing Elevation
Proposed Elevation 04     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Market Presence
The UK operating structure is based on five business sectors each 
aimed at maximising market penetration and supporting different 
aspects of the floorcovering market. 
Our Regional and National multi-product businesses  
provide a comprehensive residential and commercial  
product range and extensive geographical coverage. 
The Regional commercial businesses focus on strong 
relationships with suppliers and a high level of 
localised service for their customers. 
Our Residential specialist businesses supply 
medium to premium residential carpet on a 
national basis and the Commercial 
specialist businesses, which have a 
national presence, provide a range of 
products servicing various aspects of the 
commercial market.
Our business in France operates from two distribution 
centres and 21 service centres and the businesses in 
Switzerland and the Netherlands each operate from  
a single distribution centre. All five businesses on the 
Continent offer an extensive range of products providing  
full national coverage across their respective countries. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     05
Market Presence
garrard waters
Regional Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre 06     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
National Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Hub
Distribution Centre
Trans-shipping Location
Market Presence continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     07
Market Presence
Regional Commercial Distribution
Distribution Centre
Shared Distribution Centre
Service Centre 08     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
National
Carpets
Orientalweavers@bmk
National Residential Specialist Products Distribution Centre
Market Presence continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     09
Market Presence
National Commercial Specialist Products Distribution Centre 10     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
European Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre
Market Presence continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     11
Market Presence
Excellence in Systems
1. Order
Customers in the UK, 
who are principally 
independent flooring 
retailers and 
contractors, placed 
3,877 ,835 orders 
during 201 1
2. Select
Immediate order 
processing, 
comprehensive 
product ranges and 
high stock levels allow 
us to respond quickly 
to customer demand
3. Cut
Investment in material 
processing and 
handling equipment 
enables us to increase 
efficiency and reduce 
waste
4. Deliver
Orders, which  
are received on  
a daily basis, are 
processed immediately 
and subject to customers 
requirements delivered 
the following day
UK ware HOUSe  
Ca PaCity 52
million cubic feet
2009 2010 2011
41,334
41,994 43,347
aCtive C USt OMer  
aCCOUnt S
UK CUt len Gt HS
34,328
per week
UK Deliverie S
1,143,860
during 2011 12     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chairman’s Statement
Earnings and dividend
Profit before tax increased by 10.3% from £25.0 million to 
£27.6 million and earnings per share improved by 14.4% 
from 21.5p to 24.6p. The board is therefore proposing 
to increase the final dividend by 14.9% from 8.57p to 
9.85p resulting in a total dividend for the year of 14.15p, 
up 14.1% on 2010.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 2 July 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 June 
2012.
Strategy
Our strategy remains focused on the development of 
our floorcovering distribution businesses in the UK and 
Continental Europe and the continued improvement of the 
service we provide to independent floorcovering retailers 
and contractors.
The strategy is based upon a well defined operating 
structure that delivers sustained product development, 
marketing and distribution services aimed at supporting 
and enhancing our customers’ position in their markets. 
This structure, built upon over many years, has allowed us 
to continually outperform the floorcovering market through 
various economic cycles. This has been particularly 
evident in recent years when conditions have proved to be 
particularly challenging and during which time the group 
has maintained the ability to increase its market share.
One of the key components of the group’s structure is 
the deliberate proliferation of autonomous businesses 
controlled by dedicated management teams empowered 
to independently develop and enlarge their individual 
business. This decentralised approach, set within a 
well developed and consistently applied framework of 
operational and financial controls, provides the group with 
a wide and penetrating access to the floorcovering market 
enabling our businesses to minimise risk in challenging 
trading environments and respond swiftly to opportunities. 
In the UK, it was particularly encouraging to see this 
strategy deliver success in 2011 when each of the five 
business sectors and all our product categories showed 
increases in revenue against the previous year.
I am pleased to report that the group’s revenue increased by 6.4% in 2011 
from £535.7 million to £569.8 million. Like for like revenue increased in 
the UK by 7.7% and, declined in Continental Europe by 5.0%. The increase 
in the UK, achieved in challenging conditions, represents a continued 
outperformance compared with the floorcovering market.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     13
t he y ear in r eview
We have a number of investment plans at various stages 
of development, aimed at enlarging and improving the 
infrastructure of the group. The plans relate to replacing 
one and extending two existing distribution centres and 
establishing additional service centres, which will enhance 
our logistics capability and contribute to the group’s long-
term future growth objectives.
Employees
2011 represents another year of progress for the group and 
has been achieved through the collective endeavour of all our 
employees. The board would like to thank our management 
and employees for their efforts and contribution in producing 
another positive result over the course of the year. 
Outlook
With the benefit of the clearly defined strategy and 
autonomous structure, the group has made a solid start 
to 2012. Each of the management teams in the UK and 
Continental Europe are clearly focused on their specific 
objectives with regard to revenue and profit contribution.
Whilst we are operating in challenging markets and a 
particularly competitive environment persists, the autonomous 
structure combined with the experience and tenacity of our 
individual management teams, sales representatives and 
employees should enable the group to achieve its internal 
objectives assuming normal seasonal trends prevail.
Graham Waldron Chairman
“
With the benefit of the clearly 
defined strategy and autonomous 
structure, the group has made a 
solid start to 2012.
” 14     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chief Executive’s Review
Market sectors
The 50 businesses in the UK, operating from 18 distribution 
centres and 16 service centres, are structured within five market 
sectors based on their geographical position or product offering.
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses, operating in both 
the residential and commercial markets, collectively provide a 
comprehensive national coverage. During the year the revenue from 
these businesses increased by 5.3% and given that they represent 
51% of UK revenue, their positive performance is important since it 
provides the group with a solid base from which to expand its market 
presence.
National multi-product: The Mercado businesses have been 
able to increase revenue by 6.8% across their residential and 
commercial activities throughout England, Wales and Northern 
Ireland. We have implemented further initiatives to enhance 
Mercado’s geographical presence and these are covered more 
fully below.
Regional commercial: This sector, which increased revenue by 
10.2%, currently includes 18 operations based in 5 distribution 
and 13 service centres. During the year, we opened a new 
service centre in Carlisle and with modest investment, intend 
to increase the number of service centres to expand our UK 
locations.
Residential specialist: The 14 businesses, operating principally 
in the middle to premium quality carpet market, achieved a 
successful year increasing their revenue by 16.1%. Further 
targeted investment in sales and marketing activities should result 
in these businesses gaining additional market share within their 
sector.
Commercial specialist: These businesses, which increased revenue 
by 1.7% during the year operate throughout the commercial 
markets but have a primary focus in the healthcare and education 
sectors. With additional product development, these businesses 
can secure opportunities in other commercial segments.
Suppliers
Our suppliers are integral to the business development of 
the group and liaise closely with our senior and operating 
management teams. This relationship with the leading 
floorcovering manufacturers, principally in the UK and Continental 
Europe, ensures that our 50 businesses in the UK and five 
businesses in Continental Europe are continuously able to provide 
independent floorcovering retailers and contractors with new 
products. This is supported by appropriate point of sale displays  
to present new floorcovering products and innovations to the 
ultimate end user.
One particular innovation, developed during 2011, is the 
revolutionary carpet fibre WOLLTEC™. This fibre, which is 
exclusive to the group, combines the appearance and luxury 
characteristics of wool with the durability and stain resistant 
properties of polypropylene. The products manufactured with this 
fibre, which have received a particularly positive reaction from 
independent floorcovering retailers, are an example of how the 
group maintains its position at the forefront of new floorcovering 
technology and passes the benefits to its customers.
Market Presence
Our external sales representatives are positioning new product 
into customers on a daily basis, using various types of display 
stands and sample books. In conjunction with the ongoing 
product launches, we further improve our supplier and customer 
relationships with an extensive programme of promotional events 
and customer initiatives. 
During 2011, our businesses launched 3,501 (2010: 3,109) 
new products and we supplied our customers with 658,188 
(2010: 626,637) sample books and display stands. This level 
of activity has contributed to the particularly encouraging trend 
The 7.7% like for like increase in UK revenue reflects a 
particularly positive performance, in a floorcovering market, 
where various indicators would suggest that challenging 
trading conditions remain. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     15
t he y ear in r eview
for 2011 where our businesses increased revenue in each of the 
product categories of carpet, residential vinyl, wood, laminate, 
commercial flooring and accessories. Whilst revenue attributable 
to commercial flooring increased at a slightly faster rate than 
residential, the overall mix remains unchanged compared with last 
year at 69% residential and 31% commercial.
Lifestyle Floors is now firmly established as a trade brand in the 
UK floorcovering market. The steps taken to significantly enlarge 
our market presence, principally through the installation of display 
modules and lecterns, have been extremely well received by 
independent floorcovering retailers.
We have invested in a management team who are responsible 
for enhancing the performance of Lifestyle Floors, by identifying 
opportunities to maximise the brand and supervise product 
development. They also manage a team of ten merchandisers  
who are being utilised to ensure that the modules and lecterns 
used to display the product are up to date, complete and in 
pristine condition allowing the independent floorcovering retailer 
to maximise the potential of the brand.
Customers
We continue to maximise our presence with independent 
floorcovering retailers and contractors, through our 383 external 
sales people, collectively visiting our customers 488,660 (2010: 
475,901) times during the year.
In the UK, the group is focused on encouraging the individual 
sales and marketing autonomy of the 50 businesses. We are able 
to provide an efficient logistics service to our customers because 
of our comprehensive stockholding and availability of next day 
delivery. During 2011, our fleet of 371 vehicles completed 
1,143,860 (2010: 1,126,676) deliveries to our customers’ 
premises.
“
Our external sales 
representatives are positioning 
new product into customers on  
a daily basis.
” 16     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Active accounts in the UK increased from 41,994 to 43,347 
during the year. As reflected in our revenue increase, the 
independent sector is in good health and continues to take 
market share. It is inevitable that there are business failures and 
the occurrence of bad debts has increased compared with the 
previous year, however, the average period of credit taken by our 
independent customer base, decreased from 42.0 to 40.9 days.
iPads
The introduction of iPads, in conjunction with the development 
of bespoke software, to all of our sales people has undoubtedly 
been beneficial in further improving their working practices and 
time management and ultimately, provides an enhanced service  
to our customers. 
The iPads provide our sales people with improved visibility of real 
time customer data, the ability to access stock files to place orders 
and give an immediate flow of information on customer visits to 
our sales managers. An additional benefit is that our businesses’ 
extensive marketing literature and display information can be 
contained within the iPad for efficient demonstration to our customers.
We have launched the iPad initiative in the Netherlands and intend  
to extend it to France and Switzerland during 2012.
Continental Europe
In Continental Europe, each of our five businesses has contributed 
to an increased level of profitability in mixed market conditions.
Belcolor, our business based in Switzerland, purchases 44.0% 
of its total product requirements in Euros. The appreciation of 
the Swiss Franc against the Euro has therefore had a beneficial 
impact on the business, improving gross margins during the year, 
compensating for reductions in revenue and enabling Belcolor to 
produce a satisfactory result compared with last year.
Market conditions were relatively stable in France, allowing LMS to 
increase its profitability. Similarly in the Netherlands, Lethem Vergeer, 
Interplan and Sylvester were able to produce a solid result.
Management and employees
In addition to the group’s strategy and operating structure, the 
other key element underpinning our ongoing success is the strength 
and experience of our management teams and employees.
The group has a clear policy of promoting employees from 
within wherever possible affording all employees the opportunity 
to develop and fulfil their career aspirations. This has enabled 
employees to progress from relatively junior positions into middle 
and senior management roles and has allowed us to develop an 
entrepreneurial culture throughout the business.
The benefit of this approach is that the group has operating 
management teams, with in-depth knowledge of their business 
objectives and processes, leading the development of our 
businesses.
The strength of our management at the individual business level 
is supported by the small team of senior executive managers 
who through guidance and direction, ensure that our teams are 
pursuing the group’s strategy and contributing to the achievement 
of our operating objectives.
Investments
We currently have a number of plans to further improve and 
enlarge the infrastructure of the group. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     17
t he y ear in r eview
We have obtained planning permission to extend our distribution 
centre in Tamworth, increasing its footprint from 147,400 square 
feet to 160,200 square feet. This will allow our Residential and 
Commercial specialist businesses to further develop their activities 
in the middle to higher market sectors that they serve.
In Coleshill, we have agreed to acquire, subject to planning 
permission, land adjacent to the existing distribution centre in 
order to increase the size of the centre from 159,500 square feet 
to 283,800 square feet. This will provide the capacity to increase 
our central stock holding in certain product sectors to satisfy the 
demand from our regional distribution centres and manage our 
future working capital investment on a more efficient basis.
We have been involved in a very protracted process to relocate 
Faithfulls, our Regional multi-product business in Hadleigh, near 
Ipswich. Unfortunately, the planning permission issues proved to be 
insurmountable and therefore, we are currently in dialogue with other 
parties to acquire an alternative site, to accommodate a 127,000 
square feet distribution centre, in close proximity to our existing 
operation. 
Mercado, our National multi-product business, is currently in the 
process of opening a 6,800 square feet service centre in Liverpool. 
The service centre will enable Mercado to expand its position in the 
area and provides an opportunity to develop its market share in the 
commercial sector. 
Furthermore, we plan to relocate the trans-shipping depot based 
in Chelmsford, which Mercado utilises to service the southeast of 
England. The new facility, which is located in the near vicinity, 
will also operate as a service centre for Mercado to enlarge its 
commercial activities in this region. 
We are evaluating other modest investments to increase the number 
of service centres in specific geographical locations, which will 
expand our regional commercial activities.
Outlook
The first ten weeks of 2012 have continued a positive trend 
with all five business sectors and each product category in 
the UK continuing to produce increases in revenue against the 
corresponding period last year.
Markets remain challenging and somewhat unpredictable due  
to the general economic outlook combined with uncertainty over 
both raw material prices and currency exchange. However 
through the group’s strategy and structure combined with extensive 
product and marketing initiatives, we are confident that our 
individual businesses can collectively outperform the market.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
UK r even Ue Per Centa GeS 
by Prin CiPal P r ODUCt
2011
2010
31% 
Commercial
69% 
Residential
31% 
Commercial
69% 
Residential
UK r even Ue Per Centa GeS 
by M ar Ket S eCt Or
5% 
Commercial  
specialist
20% 
Residential  
specialist
51% 
Regional  
multi-product
2011
12% 
Regional  
Commercial
12% 
National  
multi-product
5% 
Commercial  
specialist
19% 
Residential  
specialist
52% 
Regional  
multi-product
2010
12% 
Regional  
Commercial
12% 
National  
multi-product 18     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      18     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011       Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     19
t he y ear in r eview
   Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     19  20     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Financial Review
However, whilst we continue to make steady progress in the 
UK, in markets that anecdotal evidence suggests remain flat, the 
significant impact of currency translation on the evolution of group 
revenue should not be overlooked.
By way of illustration, the table below documents the principal 
factors giving rise to the changes in group revenue between 2007 
and 2011.
£000 £000
Revenue 2007 544,718
UK growth 3,297
Continental European decline (6,808)
Benefits of currency translation 28,588
21,780
Revenue 2011 569,795
The analysis highlights the benefits of currency gains, which arise 
from the depreciation of Sterling against the Euro and Swiss Franc. 
Based on the average currency rates used to translate the results 
of the Continental businesses in 2007 and 2011, Sterling has 
depreciated by 21.1% against the Euro and 40.9% against the 
Swiss Franc.
Growth in the UK during the four years since 2007 is the net 
result of expansion in the Residential and Commercial specialist 
businesses amounting to £33.2 million and a net decline of 
£29.9 million in the traditional distribution businesses.
The Residential specialist businesses represent a sector the group 
has invested in during the last ten years, firstly by acquisition and 
secondly, through ongoing investment in sales and marketing, 
the combination of which has seen this sector continue to grow 
notwithstanding market contraction.
The decline in the multi-product businesses has occurred as a 
direct consequence of the decrease in UK floorcovering markets. 
These businesses collectively represent 63% of UK revenue and 
as highlighted in the Chief Executive’s Review, the resumption of 
growth in these two sectors during 2011 was an important step 
forward, since they provide the UK operation with the base of its 
market presence.
The impact of the reduction in the floorcovering markets in 
Continental Europe has been at its most acute in Switzerland, 
where revenues, at constant currency compared with those 
achieved in 2007, have reduced by 14.7%. Revenue is down in 
the Netherlands over the four year period by 9.1% and in France 
by 4.5%.
Gross margin and expenses
Group gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained 
unchanged compared with 2010. In the UK, the ongoing 
improvement in gross margin performance was unable to progress 
because of changes in product mix and increased price competition, 
particularly during the second half of the year. Further price 
competition is expected to be a feature of UK trading during 2012.
Revenue
The revenue result for 2011 is the highest ever recorded by the group 
and represents a very satisfactory achievement given the current 
trading environment. At £569.8 million, it exceeds the results achieved 
in 2007 and 2008 respectively amounting to £544.7 million and £557.3 
million, which were previously the two best years and were, attained 
prior to markets being affected by the current economic issues. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     21
t he y ear in r eview
Total distribution and administration expenses as a percentage of 
revenue remained unchanged compared with the last two years at 
25.9%. The increase in expenditure during the year, amounting to 
£8.8 million, was principally due to 
•	 	 employment	costs,	in	constant	currency	ter ms,	 
up 5.9% to £4.4 million,
•	 fuel	costs,	up	14.0%	to	£1.4	million,
•	 cost	of	the	deliver y	fleet	up	12.5%,	£1.0	million	and
•	 sampling	and	bad	debts	up	7.2%	to	£1.1	million
Net finance costs
Net finance costs reduced during the year by £0.6 million 
compared with 2010. The change during the year was almost 
entirely attributable to the net reduction in finance cost associated 
with the group’s pension plans.
Following renewal of the group’s term facility, net finance costs are 
likely to increase during 2012 due to pricing changes on the new 
facilities.
Taxation
The effective rate of taxation reduced to 26% during the year, 
reflecting the decrease in the UK headline corporation tax rate 
and also the further future reduction already enacted, which 
impacts upon deferred taxation. The anticipated effective rate for 
2012 is expected to reduce to 25% due to announced UK rate 
reductions.
Dividends
Total dividends paid and proposed for 2011 have increased by 
14.1% from 12.40 pence to 14.15 pence. Dividend cover of 
1.74 times is in line with last year and represents a cover ratio  
the board anticipate maintaining for the foreseeable future.
Refinancing
The group has entered into two separate agreements with  
Barclays Bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland and completed  
the re-financing of its existing term facility.
The new facilities, provided equally by the two banks and 
totalling £40.0 million, are for a term of four years, which can 
be extended to five on the exercise of a separate option by each 
bank.
The former facility, amounting to £30.0 million has been repaid  
in full and cancelled.
In addition to the above, the group has extended its uncommitted 
UK facilities, amounting to £35.0 million, for another 12 months. 22     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Financial Review continued
Cash flows
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 
increased during the year by £2.3 million from £31.5 million  
to £33.8 million.
Net working capital investment during the year amounted to 
£12.9 million compared with £0.2 million during the previous 
year. The group continues to provide its customers with a wide 
range of product. This commitment, coupled with price increases 
introduced by suppliers during the first quarter of 2011, which 
averaged 3.6%, has resulted in an additional £8.7 million 
investment in inventory.
The additional funding required in connection with trade 
receivables has arisen due to the increase in revenue during the 
year. However, as already noted in the Chief Executive’s Review, 
the average period of credit taken by our independent customer 
base, as measured at the end of the year, has reduced compared 
with the previous year.
The additional net working capital investment is the reason for 
cash generated from operations reducing by £10.5 million  
during the year. However, the decrease in cash payments relating 
to tax, £4.1 million, and the enhanced transfer value exercise, 
£4.2 million, was the principal reason for the reduction in net 
cash from operating activities to £2.2 million.
Cash flows from investing and financing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year were 
modest compared with previous years. However, as highlighted 
Changes in net funds 
At 1 January  
2011
£000
Cash  
flows
£000
Translation  
differences
£000
At 31 December  
2011
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 44,758 (3,211) (53) 41,494
Debt due within one year (225) (30,000) 6 (30,219)
Debt due after one year (34,011) 30,228 92 (3,691)
10,522 (2,983) 45 7,584
in the Chief Executive’s Review, the group intends to embark on 
further investment over the next few years with approximately 
£24.0 million being committed to the development of the Coleshill 
extension and the new distribution centre for Faithfulls. It is too 
early in the process to comment on the detailed timing of the cash 
flows.
Cash out flows relating to financing activities amounted to  
£12.1 million compared with £10.0 million in the previous year. 
The main component of the cash flow relates to dividends but 
during the year, £1.6 million was utilised to acquire shares in the 
company to crystallise the cost of satisfying potential awards under 
the employee share plan arrangements.
Net debt
Group net funds at the end of the year decreased compared  
with the previous year by £2.9 million from £10.5 million to  
£7.6 million. The details are shown in the table below. 
Employee benefits
As disclosed in the Cash Flow Statement, the group made further 
payments totalling £3.3 million in connection with the enhanced 
transfer value exercise during the first quarter of 2011, enabling 
deferred members of the UK defined benefit pension plan the 
opportunity to transfer out.
The group does not anticipate repeating this exercise in the 
foreseeable future.
The results of the triennial review of the UK defined benefit  
pension plan revealed a net deficit reduction from £22.4 million  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     23
t he y ear in r eview
to £11.5 million. The reduction has been appreciably facilitated 
by both the additional contributions to the plan and the transfer of 
deferred members.
The company has agreed with the plan trustee to maintain 
additional contributions in line with the arrangement agreed in 
2008, which means that each year’s contribution will continue to 
increase on the previous year at a rate of 3.2%. This commitment 
gave rise to a cash payment of £2.8 million during the year 
and should result, all else being equal, in the plan deficit being 
completely eliminated by December 2015.
Going concern
Having reviewed the group’s resources and a range of likely 
out-turns, the directors believe they have reasonable grounds 
for stating that the group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
group’s financial accounts.
Steve Wilson Group Finance Director 24     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Directors, Officers and Advisers
DIRECTORS
G Waldron ❉
Chairman
Graham was appointed an executive director in 
June 1991 becoming Chairman later that year until 
31 December 1999. On the resignation of Trevor 
Larman on 1 June 2006 he was re-appointed 
Chairman. He has 59 years experience in the 
floorcovering industry. He was the non-executive 
Chairman of Tandem Group plc until his retirement 
from their board on 28 April 2010. 
A J Brewer ■
Group Chief Executive
Tony was appointed an executive director in 
June 1991, becoming Managing Director of the 
Floorcoverings Division in January 1992, and was 
appointed Group Chief Executive in November 
2000. He has 34 years experience in the 
floorcovering industry. 
S G Wilson
Group Finance Director
Steve was appointed Group Finance Director 
in December 1991. He was the non-executive 
Chairman of Synergy Health plc until his retirement 
from their board on 22 September 2010 and is a 
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
R W Peters ◆ ● ■
Non-executive Director 
Dick was appointed a non-executive director in 
December 2005. He was formerly Senior Partner 
for the East Midlands practice of Deloitte & Touche 
in Nottingham. He is a BSc in Mathematics and 
Statistics and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants. He has considerable experience of 
auditing large companies, both UK and overseas, 
transactional support and project management 
activities. He is a director and Chairman of 
Headlam Pension Trustees Limited. 
M K O’Leary ◆ ● ■
Senior Independent Director 
Mike was appointed a non-executive director in 
March 2006. He previously served on the Board 
of Misys plc in an executive capacity for 15 years 
and was CEO of Marlborough Stirling. He is 
currently non-executive Chairman of EMIS Group 
plc and also of Digital Healthcare Limited and is a 
non-executive director at Psion plc.
A K Eastgate ◆ ● ■
Non-executive Director 
Andrew was appointed a non-executive director 
in May 2010. He was formerly a Partner 
in Pinsents including being head of Pinsents’ 
corporate practice in Birmingham. Andrew has a 
broad experience of advising quoted companies, 
particularly in connection with transactions and 
compliance issues. He is a non-executive director 
of Epwin Investment Holdings Limited.
COMPANY SECRETARY
G M Duggan
Geoff was appointed Company Secretary in April 
1998. He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators and a fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
SENIOR EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
G B Phillips
Finance Director Operations
Gary joined the company in June 1992 and 
is the Finance Director of operations. He is an 
associate of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants. 
A R Judge
Commercial Director, Coleshill  
and Tamworth businesses
Tony joined the company in May 1992, is the 
Managing Director of all businesses operating from 
the Coleshill and Tamworth distribution centres and 
has operational responsibility for the Thatcham 
and Stockport businesses. Tony has 31 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
K R Yates
Managing Director, Mercado
Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and was 
subsequently appointed its Managing Director in 
1996. In addition he has operational responsibility 
for the businesses in Scotland. Keith has 29 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
M W McMaster
Commercial Director selected UK Operations 
Mike joined the company in July 1984 and was 
appointed to the Senior Executive Management  
in January 2009 with operational responsibility  
for fifteen of the UK businesses. Mike has 41 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
◆   Audit committee
●   Remuneration committee
■   Nomination committee
❉   Charities committee
ADVISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B4 6GH
Taxation Advisers
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindley Place
Birmingham B1 2HZ
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 3333
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B3 2WN
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Corporate and Institutional Banking
5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place
Birmingham B3 2RB
Solicitors
Pinsent Masons LLP
3 Colmore Circus
Birmingham
B4 6BH
Stockbrokers
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham B15 3DU
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     25
a ccounts
Financial Calendar
Announcements
Interim Management Statement  18 May 2012
Annual General Meeting  15 June 2012
Interim results announced  24 August 2012 
Interim Management Statement  16 November 2012
Full year results announced  March 2013
Dividend Dates
Final dividend for 2011, if approved, payable to qualifying 
  shareholders on the register as at 1 June 2012 2 July 2012
Interim dividend for 2012 announced  24 August 2012
Interim dividend for 2012 payable  2 January 2013 26     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Introduction
The directors present their annual report and audited financial 
statements as at, and for the year ended, 31 December 201 1.
This Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial 
Review, the Corporate Governance statement and the directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which provide a detailed review of the group’s 
activities and progress during the year. Each of these is incorporated 
by reference in, and shall be deemed to form part of this Directors’ 
Report, to the extent required by applicable law or regulation. 
Principal activities
The principal activities of the group are wholly aligned to the sales, 
marketing, supply and distribution of floorcovering and certain other 
ancillary products. The principal activity of the company is that of a 
holding company and its principal trading subsidiaries are listed on 
page 104.
Financial results and dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of 
the company was £20.4 million, as shown in the Consolidated 
Income Statement set out on page 54.
An interim dividend of 4.30p per share (2010: 3.83p) was paid on 
3 January 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 2 December 201 1. The directors propose a final dividend of 
9.85p per ordinary share (2010: 8.57p), to be paid on 2 July 2012 
to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 
1 June 2012, the associated ex-dividend date being 30 May 2012. 
This would bring the total dividend for the year to 14.15p per ordinary 
share (2010: 12.40p). The payment of the final dividend is subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
Directors and their interests
The directors of the company during the year were Graham Waldron, 
Tony Brewer, Steve Wilson, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and Andrew 
Eastgate. Biographical details of the directors currently serving on the 
board are set out on page 24. 
There were no changes to the board in the year and no other person 
has acted as a director of the company during the year. The 
company’s Articles of Association (“articles”) give directors power to 
appoint and replace directors. They also provide that each director 
shall retire from office and shall be eligible for re-appointment at the 
third AGM after the general meeting at which they were appointed  
or last re-appointed. Accordingly, Steve Wilson and Mike O’Leary, 
who both retire by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming AGM. In proposing their re-election,  
the board confirms to shareholders that following evaluation, each  
of these individuals’ performance continues to be effective and they 
have expressed a willingness to continue in their roles.
Details of directors’ interests, including interests in the company’s 
shares, are disclosed in the directors’ Remuneration Report.
Qualifying third party indemnities
The articles entitle the directors of the company, to the extent permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation 
(together, the Companies Acts), to be indemnified out of the assets of 
the company in the event that they suffer any expenses in connection 
with certain proceedings relating to the execution of their duties as 
directors of the company. In addition, and in common with many other 
companies, the company has insurance in favour of its directors and 
officers in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be 
exposed due to their office. 
Directors’ conflict of interests
No director had, at any time during the period under review, any 
interests in any contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries,  
a position which was unchanged at 9 March 2012.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
A statement on the group’s corporate governance is set out on pages 
32 to 37 .
Principal risks and uncertainties
The group’s business, results and financial condition are influenced by 
a range of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the 
control of the board. Whilst the following highlights some of these risks 
it is not intended to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks affecting 
the business. For instance, there are some risks which are as yet not 
known and others which whilst not presently material could become  
a significant factor in the future.
Market demand
A significant proportion of the group’s sales are to independent 
retailers and flooring contractors. The activity levels within this customer 
base are determined by consumer demand created through residential 
property refurbishment or moves, new residential housing 
developments and a wide range of commercial refurbishment and 
new building projects. Periods of recession, low consumer confidence 
or changes in trends and preferences have the potential to affect 
market activity and therefore demand for products supplied by the 
group. However, market activity is monitored in each individual 
business and at group level on a daily basis which enables a rapid 
response to any factors adversely affecting trading. Furthermore, since 
the group’s principal activities are supply and distribution, it has the 
ability to quickly respond to market changes. This, coupled with the 
development of broad market penetration through the establishment  
of a range of diverse regional, national and specialist businesses 
provides the group with a degree of resilience and protection.
Competitor risk
The group operates in four different geographical markets which 
generally share similar trading characteristics. Within each market,  
the group competes with a variety of regional and national 
distributors, with manufacturers selling directly to our customer base 
and indirectly with multiple retail chains. The group seeks to sustain its 
competitive position by maintaining close relationships with its supplier 
and customer base. Substantial and continued investment in 
Directors’ Report Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     27
a ccounts
management, an extensive product offering, a knowledgeable sales 
resource, stock availability, IT, efficient material handling, and logistics 
removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the group to 
enhance its overall market position through its commitment to service. 
The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse and very 
fragmented. The group has deliberately adopted a cautious 
acquisition policy in these markets, searching for opportunities that 
provide good growth opportunities but at sensible valuations. Given 
the number of opportunities it is possible that a competitor, following a 
more aggressive acquisition strategy in Continental Europe, could 
challenge the group’s position as Europe’s leading floorcovering 
distributor.
 
Credit risk
The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit terms  
and therefore there is always the risk that customers are unable to pay 
outstanding balances. The group has standardised credit checking 
and debt collection procedures at each individual business. Businesses 
are encouraged to share credit information with other group 
businesses on a regular basis in order to prevent the escalation of 
small credit risks. All open accounts are subject to credit limits and 
businesses must obtain central approval for credit limits in excess of 
£10,000. These procedures, combined with the local knowledge of 
the credit control teams, not only reduce the risk of default, but also,  
in a number of instances, provide opportunities to assist the customer 
to trade out of their default position. The group does not use credit 
insurance since the level of default is generally low. Appropriate 
impairment provisions are made whenever the likelihood of default  
is high.
Infrastructure
An important element of the group’s ability to service its customer base 
is its network of distribution and service centres. The group’s policy of 
improvement through continued investment in new or extended 
facilities has been one of the principal drivers behind the group’s 
historic growth rates. In order to support growth rates in the future,  
the group will continue to invest in new centres. There is a risk that 
future growth will be constrained if these development projects are 
unduly delayed through land availability, planning consent or 
prohibitive building cost.
Systems
The group is reliant on its IT systems to deliver its operational 
objectives and maintain financial control. As a consequence, any 
prolonged IT failure has the potential to adversely affect business 
activity. However, each business has its own dedicated computer 
system and failure in one will not interrupt another. Furthermore, the 
group operates well defined back up procedures and has contingency 
plans in place to enable swift recovery from a failure of this nature.
Transport
The majority of customer orders result in deliveries within twenty four 
hours on vehicles operated by the group. Any interruption to this 
service, for example, major disruption to road networks or the 
prolonged reduced availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse 
affect on activity.
People
The group’s ability to deliver continued success is very dependent 
upon its people. The group is committed to providing a workplace 
that is safe and environmentally sound and creating opportunities for 
individuals to progress their careers. Recruitment, training and 
development are aimed at ensuring that the group has suitably skilled 
and qualified people to meet the operational needs of the business.
Pension
The cost of funding the group’s defined benefit plans may increase 
due to a decline in investment returns, movement in interest rates and 
longer life expectancy. As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation  
of the UK plan undertaken at 31 March 2008 and that undertaken  
at 31 March 201 1, the group agreed to make additional payments 
every year until 2015 when it was planned that the scheme funding 
deficit would be removed, details of which are provided in note 20. 
The results of future scheme valuations, the next being  
31 March 2014, could result in this commitment increasing  
or decreasing.
Government legislation
The group’s operations are regulated by a variety of laws, which 
relate, amongst others, to health and safety, the environment, 
employment, commercial, corporate, financial and tax. The group is 
committed to complying with these requirements in each of the markets 
in which it operates and achieves this by managing its obligations at 
the group level and within individual businesses. Where appropriate, 
the group engages the services of competent third party advisers. 
Changes in regulations are incorporated into the group’s policies  
and procedures on a timely basis.
Contributions for political and charitable purposes
The group’s Charities Committee considers requests for charitable 
donations within set criteria. During 201 1, in addition to donations 
made to overseas charities, the group contributed charitable donations 
to UK charitable organisations, principally to local organisations 
serving the communities in which it operates, of £39,523 (2010: 
£26,253).
The group’s policy is not to make any donations for political purposes 
in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political 
expenditure. Accordingly neither the company nor its subsidiaries 
made any political donations or incurred political expenditure in the 
financial period under review (2010: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the company and its subsidiaries of financial 
instruments can be found in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Employees
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown 
in note 4 to the Financial Statements. At the year end the group had 
2,062 employees (2010: 2,020) throughout the United Kingdom and 
Continental Europe. Reward is linked to business plans and targets 
thereby giving employees the opportunity to share in the financial  28     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
success of the group. In keeping with the structure of the business,  
this policy is applied locally, and as a result, staff of all levels regularly 
benefit from achieving local targets. The group recognises the value of 
its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and 
responsive environment in which to work. The company maintains a 
policy of employing the best candidates available in every position, 
regardless of gender, ethnic group or background. It places 
considerable importance on communications with employees which 
take place at many levels through the organisation and by a variety  
of means on both a formal and informal level.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the group’s policy 
wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal 
terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and 
promotion wherever appropriate and gives full and fair consideration 
to applications for employment from disabled persons. Further details 
of arrangements relating to employees are described in the Corporate 
and Social Responsibility report on pages 49 to 52.
The company has communicated an internally operated whistle 
blowing policy and procedure to employees. The policy enables them 
to report any concerns on matters affecting the group or their 
employment, without fear of recrimination, and reduces the risk of 
malpractice taking place and remaining unreported. In addition, the 
group does not tolerate matters of discrimination or harassment and 
bullying and policies and procedures are in place for reporting and 
dealing with these matters.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the company and the 
group operates an HMRC Approved Savings Related Share Option 
Scheme (SAYE). Those employees who choose to take up the option 
to purchase shares in the company may enter into a savings 
arrangement for either a three or five year period, with the option 
price determined by reference to the share price at the date of grant. 
On exercise the shares are purchased by the employee free of income 
tax and national insurance although capital gains tax rules apply. 
Shareholder approval is sought at the AGM to be held on  
15 June 2012 for the adoption of a new SAYE scheme on expiry  
of that approved in 2002.
The environment
The group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and 
the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business 
operation. It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any 
adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will 
promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available 
techniques.
Supplier payment policy
It is the group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the 
company and its suppliers. The group seeks to strictly comply with 
these payment terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has 
provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed  
terms and conditions. The payment policy has been and will continue 
to be developed to meet the group’s specific requirements and is 
generally not based on any particular code or standard relating to 
payment practice. The number of creditor days of the company at  
31 December 201 1 was 46.7 days (2010: 45 days).
Fixed assets
A consideration of the market value of the group’s tangible fixed assets 
is detailed in note 1 of the Financial Statements.
Share capital
As at 31 December 201 1, the issued share capital of the company 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 5 pence each, with 
85,363,743 shares in issue at that date. Of these, 2,241,197 were 
held in treasury. No shares were issued during the year, although 
4,406 were transferred out of treasury in connection with the SAYE 
scheme. Details of the company’s share capital are set out in note 22 
of the Financial Statements which should be treated as forming part of 
this report.
Subject to the provisions of the articles and the Companies Acts, 
shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the company 
may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the company has not so 
determined, as the directors may decide. There are however no 
restrictions on the transfer of securities in the company, except that 
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law or 
regulation, for example, insider trading laws, and pursuant to the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the Listing Rules), 
whereby certain employees require the approval of the company  
to deal in the company’s shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in  
the company.
Directors’ Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     29
a ccounts
Substantial shareholdings
As at 9 March 2012, in accordance with rule 5.1 of the disclosure 
and transparency rules, the company had been notified of the 
following interests in the ordinary share capital of the company.
Ordinary shares of 5p each
Shareholder Nature of holding Number Per cent
Franklin Templeton 
 Institutional, LLC Indirect 10,777 ,818 12.97
Tweedy, Browne 
 Company LLC Direct 4,523,274 5.44
Aberforth Partners LLP Indirect 4,283,326 5.15
Threadneedle Investments Direct and  4,154,941 4.99
 indirect 
Schroders plc Indirect 3,565,486 4.18
Legal & General Investment 
 Management Limited Indirect 3,317 ,829 3.99
Blackrock, Inc Indirect 2,775,989 3.25
Securities carrying special rights
There are no requirements for prior approval of any transfers and no 
person holds securities in the company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the company.
Rights under employees’ share schemes
As at 31 December 201 1, Kleinwort Benson (Channel Islands) Limited 
(“Kleinwort Benson”), as trustee of the Headlam Group Employee Trust 
Company Limited (“Trust”) which acts as the trustee of the Headlam 
Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (“CIP”) and the Headlam Group 
Performance Share Plan 2008 (“PSP”), which were approved by 
shareholders on 20 June 2008, held 600,000 shares, approximately 
0.7% of the issued share capital of the company, on trust for the 
benefit of the directors and certain senior managers of the group. 
Kleinwort Benson waives the dividends payable in respect of these 
shares.
As at the same date, the Trust held 100,088 shares, approximately 
0.1% of the issued share capital of the company, which may be used 
to fulfil the exercise of SAYE options, the dividend payable in respect 
of these shares similarly being waived.
Voting
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share 
held. The notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and 
the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are 
announced at the AGM and published on the company’s website 
after the meeting. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
the company’s Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise 
voting rights. The company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors 
The directors shall be not less than three and not more than eight in 
number, although the company may by ordinary resolution vary these 
numbers. Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary 
resolution or by the board, a director appointed by the board holding 
office only until the next AGM of the company after their appointment 
at which they are then eligible to stand for election. The articles 
provide that at every AGM of the company, one-third of the directors, 
those longest in office since last election, shall retire from office and 
may offer themselves for re-election, such number to exclude any 
director who was appointed by the board and is standing for election. 
The company does not seek to comply with the provision in The UK 
Corporate Governance Code which requires the annual re-election  
of directors.
The company may by ordinary resolution, but subject to special 
notice, remove any director before the expiry of the director’s period 
of office. The office of a director shall be vacated if certain 
circumstances arise, as set out in the articles. 
Amendment of articles
The company’s articles may only be amended by a special resolution 
at a general meeting of shareholders.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given 
by the company by special resolution, the business of the company 
will be managed by the board, which may exercise all the powers  
of the company. 
Powers in relation to the company issuing its shares 
The directors were granted general authority at the AGM on  
20 June 201 1 to allot shares in the company up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,122,500, representing 22,450,000 ordinary 
shares. Additionally the directors were granted authority to allot shares 
in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,122,500  
in connection with a rights issue and £213,000 in respect of cash, 
without first offering them to existing shareholders. No shares have 
been allotted by the company during the year and these authorities 
will expire on 15 June 2012. Special resolutions will be proposed at 
the forthcoming AGM to renew each of these authorities. 30     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Powers in relation to the company buying back its shares 
The company may only buy back shares if the articles do not prohibit 
it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from 
shareholders in general meeting. The articles do not contain any such 
prohibition and the directors were granted authority at the AGM on 
20 June 201 1 to purchase shares in the company up to 10% of the 
issued share capital, this authority expiring on 15 June 2012. Whilst 
no shares have been purchased under the buyback authority by the 
company during the year, a special resolution will be proposed at the 
AGM to be held on 15 June 2012 to renew the directors’ power to 
make market purchases. 
Change of control
The company has entered into certain agreements that may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company 
following a takeover bid. The significant agreements in this respect are 
the group’s term loan and certain of its employee share schemes. 
The group’s term loan facilities include a provision such that, in the 
event of a change of control, the relevant lender may cancel all or any 
part of the relevant facility and/or declare that all amounts outstanding 
under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable by the 
company.
Outstanding options granted under the SAYE scheme may be 
exercised within a period of six months from a change of control of 
the company following a takeover bid taking place, or will lapse upon 
the expiry of such a period.
Matching share awards granted under the 2008 CIP and awards 
granted under the 2008 PSP may, proportionate to the performance 
period, vest within a period of six months from a change of control of 
the company. At the end of such period, awards will lapse and cease 
to be exercisable to the extent not exercised.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors 
providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of 
a change of control.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 31.
Going concern
The director’s opinion in respect of going concern together with further 
information relating to the financial position of the group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities is given in the 
Financial Review on pages 20 to 23 and in note 1 to the Financial 
Statements.
Auditors
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a 
resolution for the re-appointment of the group’s auditors, KPMG Audit 
Plc, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. Each director who 
holds office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirms 
that, so far as each such director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditors are unaware; and the directors have 
taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the auditors are aware of that information.
AGM
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in 
Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 15 June 2012 at 10.00am. The 
notice convening this meeting is set out within this Annual Report and 
Accounts on page 106, along with explanatory notes regarding the 
resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting on pages 1 12 to 1 14.
Recommendation
The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed at 
the AGM is in the best interests of the company and the shareholders 
as a whole. Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that all 
shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions, as the directors intend to 
do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
This report was approved by the board on 9 March 2012 and signed 
on its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
 
Directors’ Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     31
a ccounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on 
the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the group and 
parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	 s e l e c t	s u i t a b l e	a cco u n t i n g	p o l i c i e s	a n d	t h e n	a p p l y	t h e m	
consistently;
•	 m a k e	j u d g e m e n t s	a n d	e s t i m a t e s	t h a t	a r e	r e a s o n a b l e	a n d	p r u d e n t ;
•	 s t a t e	w h et h e r	t h ey	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	i n	a cco r d a n c e	w i t h	I F R S s	
as adopted by the EU; and
•	 p r e p a r e	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	o n	t h e	g o i n g	co n c e r n	b a s i s	u n l e s s	
it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that 
law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual 
financial report
We can confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	p r e p a r e d	i n	a cco r d a n c e	w i t h	t h e	
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
company and the subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
•	 t h e	D i r e c t o r s ’	R e p o r t	i n cl u d e s	a	f a i r	p r e s e n t a t i o n	o f	t h e	
development and performance of the business and the position  
of the company and group taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the board
Steve Wilson
Group Finance Director
9 March 2012
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements 32     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
This report sets out how the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) are applied, reports on the 
company’s compliance with the Code’s provisions and provides  
an explanation where the provisions have not been complied with. 
This will be the first reporting period in respect of the new Code.  
The Code sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions 
on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good 
governance practice.
Whilst the company is a constituent member of the FTSE Small Cap 
Index, and thereby not subject to the Code, which applies to 
companies listed in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices, it continues 
voluntarily to seek to comply with the provisions of the Code. In 
seeking to achieve a high standard of corporate governance, the 
company considers the group’s reputation and performance will be 
enhanced, to the benefit of all interested parties.
The board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the 
Code throughout the year ended 31 December 201 1 and up to the 
date of this report, with the exception of the following:
•		 C o d e	B . 6 . 2	s t a t e s	t h a t	t h e	e v a l u a t i o n	o f	t h e	b o a r d	o f	F T S E	3 5 0	
companies should be externally facilitated at least every three 
years. The board considered the requirements of the Code but, 
mindful of the costs associated and perceived benefit of doing so, 
determined that board evaluation, similar to prior years, was to be 
undertaken in house.
•		 C o d e	B . 7 . 1	s t a t e s	t h a t	a l l	d i r e c t o r s	o f	F T S E	3 5 0	co m p a n i e s	s h o u l d	
be subject to annual election by shareholders. The board does not 
consider the annual election of directors to be appropriate, 
considering that existing provisions for the re-election of directors 
are sufficient and better serve the interests of the company. 
In addition to compliance with the Code described above, the board 
considers that it has complied fully with the provisions of the Quoted 
Companies Alliance report on Corporate Governance Guidelines for 
Smaller Quoted Companies issued in September 2010.
Board of directors
During the year and as at 31 December 201 1 the board consisted of 
six members, three executive directors comprising Graham Waldron, 
Chairman, Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive and Steve Wilson, 
Group Finance Director and three independent non-executive 
directors, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and Andrew Eastgate.
The board considers that the balance achieved between executive 
and non-executive directors during the year was appropriate and 
effective for the control and direction of the business. The company 
considers that diversity in the boardroom is essential to good business, 
appointment processes continuing to ensure that all appointments are 
made on merit. 
The board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the proper 
management and success of the group. Its role is to provide 
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed; to set 
strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human 
resources are in place to meet its objectives and review management 
performance; to set the group’s values and standards and to ensure 
that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and 
met.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are clearly divided and periodically reviewed by the board. 
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the group, 
the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for leading the board and 
ensuring its effectiveness and the Group Chief Executive is responsible 
for implementing strategy, running the businesses in accordance with 
the objectives and policies agreed by the board and for the executive 
management of the group. The Chairman communicates frequently 
with the non-executive and executive directors and the non-executive 
directors have the opportunity to meet with and discuss any issues or 
concerns with the Chairman at any time throughout the year. Matters 
that are not specifically reserved for the board and its committees 
under their terms of reference or for shareholders in general meeting 
are delegated to the Group Chief Executive. 
The board maintains overall control of the group’s affairs through a 
schedule of matters reserved for its decision. These include, but are 
not limited to, setting group strategy, approval of the business 
objectives and annual plan, acquisitions and disposals, authority limits 
for capital and other expenditure, material treasury matters, changes 
to capital structure and dividend policy, committee terms of reference, 
board composition, succession planning, health and safety, risk 
management, financial reporting and controls and corporate 
governance. The board is assisted by committees that it has 
established with written terms of reference, details of which are set  
out below.
During the year the board conducted an in house evaluation of its 
performance with no remedial actions arising. The board intends to 
review the way in which it conducts its in house evaluation procedures 
during 2012. 
The directors bring strong judgement to the board’s deliberations and 
the size, diversity and balance of skills and experience of the board is 
considered appropriate for the requirements of the business. The 
board believes that all three non-executive directors are independent 
of management and free from any business or other relationship, 
including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision 
A.3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of 
independent and objective judgement. In making this determination 
the board has considered whether each director is independent in 
character and judgement and whether there are relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to or could affect the director’s 
judgement. Mike O’Leary, who served as the Senior Independent 
Director throughout the year, is available to shareholders if they have 
Corporate Governance Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     33
a ccounts
concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of the 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or for 
which such contact is inappropriate. The non-executive directors do 
not participate in any bonus, share option or pension scheme of the 
company. They are initially appointed for a three-year term and, 
subject to review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three 
such terms.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
following their appointment by the board. Under the articles of the 
company, each of the directors is required to retire by rotation at least 
once every three years. Details of the directors retiring and seeking 
re-election at an AGM are given to shareholders in the Directors’ 
Report and also in the Notice of AGM and the biographical details  
of the directors are shown on page 24.
Board information, induction, training and professional development 
The board has a rolling agenda which is regularly updated in respect 
of specific topics that directors have requested for review at future 
meetings, including health, safety and environmental matters, finance 
and operational performance, risk management, business 
development initiatives, legal and regulatory developments and 
governance and best practice guidelines that affect the group. The 
board reviews the key activities of the business, receiving papers and 
presentations from senior executive management generally a week in 
advance of the meeting. The Company Secretary is responsible to the 
board in respect of board procedures and is available to individual 
directors. In conjunction with the Chairman, the Company Secretary 
ensures that information distributed to the board is sufficient, clear and 
accurate, that it is circulated in a timely manner and is appropriate to 
enable the board to discharge its duties. All directors are equally 
accountable for the proper stewardship of the group’s affairs, however 
the non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure 
that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully 
discussed and critically examined. 
The induction of newly appointed directors includes background 
information about the group, directors’ responsibilities, board meeting 
procedures, a number of other governance-related issues and 
procedures for dealing in company shares. A briefing on the general 
group strategy, including visits to group businesses, is provided by the 
Group Chief Executive. External training is arranged with suitable 
providers as appropriate and ongoing training is provided as and 
when necessary. Training and development in the year took various 
forms, including visits to group businesses and attendance at courses 
run by professional bodies on various commercial and regulatory 
matters. Directors receive regular updates appropriate to the business 
throughout the year aimed at developing and refreshing their 
knowledge and capabilities. All directors are considered to be 
suitably qualified, trained and experienced so as to be able to 
participate fully in the work of the board. To assist with the 
independent conduct of their function and if required in connection 
with their duties, a process is in place for the non-executive directors  
to obtain professional advice at the company’s expense. 
Board meetings and attendance
The board usually meets nine times a year. During the year there are 
sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present should this be 
deemed appropriate. In addition, directors have contact between 
meetings and on occasions visit trading locations in order to maintain 
contact with the group’s business. A record of meetings held during the 
year is set out below.
Board and committee meeting attendance
Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Graham Waldron 9/9 3/3 2/3 *
Tony Brewer 9/9 1/3 3/3 1/1
Stephen Wilson 9/9 1/3 3/3 *
Dick Peters 9/9 3/3 3/3 1/1
Mike O’Leary 9/9 3/3 3/3 1/1
Andrew Eastgate 9/9 3/3 2/3 1/1
* Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the 
respective committee Chairman.
In addition to the board meetings above there were two meetings 
which approved the 201 1 Interim and 2010 Annual Report and 
Accounts. These meetings are constituted by a committee of the board 
formed for that sole purpose comprising the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director having considered the views of the whole 
board beforehand.
Directors’ interests and indemnity arrangements
At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in 
any contract of significance with the company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings other than a third-party indemnity provision between 
each director and the company and service contracts between each 
executive director and the company. The company has purchased and 
maintained throughout the year directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and its directors. The directors also have 
the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the company’s 
articles. These provisions, which are qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions as defined by Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, 
were in force throughout the year and are currently in force. Details of 
directors’ remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shares of 
the company are set out in the directors’ Remuneration Report.
The company also provides an indemnity for the benefit of each 
person who was a director of Headlam Group Pension Trustees 
Limited, which is a corporate trustee of the company’s occupational 
pension schemes, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in 
their capacity as directors of that corporate trustee. These provisions, 
which are qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined 
in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout 
the year and are currently in force. 34     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Procedures are maintained by the board whereby potential conflicts  
of interests are reviewed regularly. These procedures have been 
designed so that the board may be reasonably assured that any 
potential situation where a director may have a direct or indirect 
interest which may conflict or may possibly conflict with the interests  
of the company are identified and where appropriate dealt with in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the company’s 
articles. The board has not had to deal with any conflict during the 
period.
Board committees
The board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
committees to oversee and debate important issues of policy and 
assist in attending to its responsibilities, each with terms of reference 
that each comply with the provisions of the Code and are available 
on written request from the Company Secretary at the registered office 
and are available on the company’s website. The roles of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination committees, whose membership is 
comprised of the three independent non-executive directors, with the 
Group Chief Executive additionally serving on the Nomination 
committee, are set out below.
 
Audit committee
The Audit committee is comprised of the three non-executive directors 
and was chaired during the year by Dick Peters. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the committee. Dick Peters is a chartered 
accountant with considerable financial and audit experience and is 
considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial 
experience.
The Audit committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing:
•		 t h e	g r o u p ’ s	s ys t e m s	o f	i n t e r n a l	co n t r o l	a n d	t h e	p r o c e s s e s	f o r	
 monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group on an 
ongoing basis
•		 u p d a t e s	f r o m	e x e c u t i v e	d i r e c t o r s	a n d	s e n i o r	e x e c u t i v e	
management on key financial control matters
•		 t h e	co n s i s t e n c y	o f	a n d	a n y	c h a n g e s	t o	t h e	g r o u p ’ s	a cco u n t i n g	
policies, the application of appropriate accounting standards and 
methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions
•		 t h e	i n t e g r i t y	o f	t h e	i n t e r i m	a n d	a n n u a l	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s ,	
including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements 
contained in them
•		 t h e	p o t e n t i a l	i m p a c t	o n	t h e	fi n a n c i a l	s t a t e m e n t s	o f	c e r t a i n	m a t t e r s	
such as impairment of asset values and employee benefits
•		 t h e	e f f e c t i v e n e s s	o f	t h e	e x t e r n a l	a u d i t	p r o c e s s	
•		 t h e	a p p l i c a t i o n	o f	t h e	b o a r d’ s	p o l i c y	o n	n o n - a u d i t	w o r k	p e r f o r m e d	
by the group’s external auditor together with the non-audit fees 
 payable to the external auditor
•		 t h e	e x t e r n a l	a u d i t o r s ’	p l a n	f o r	t h e	a u d i t	o f	t h e	g r o u p ’ s	a cco u n t s ,	
confirmation of auditor independence and of the individuals 
carrying out the audit, confirmation of the proposed audit fee, 
approving the audit terms of engagement and management’s 
response to any major external audit recommendations
•		 r e p o r t s	f r o m	t h e	e x t e r n a l	a u d i t o r	o n	t h e	g r o u p ’ s	s ys t e m s	o f	i n t e r n a l	
control, including a summary of and commentary on the business 
risks and internal control processes, and reporting to the board on 
the results of this review
•		 n o n - a u d i t	s e r v i c e s	a n d	f e e s
•		 t h e	a p p o i n t m e n t ,	r e - a p p o i n t m e n t	o r	d i s m i s s a l	o f	t h e	e x t e r n a l	
auditor
•		 t h e	a p p r o p r i a t e n e s s	o f	a n	i n t e r n a l	a u d i t	f u n c t i o n
•		 t h e	g r o u p ’ s	co m p l i a n c e	w i t h	co r p o r a t e	g o v e r n a n c e	p r i n c i p l e s
•		 a r r a n g e m e n t s	by	w h i c h	s t a f f	m a y	i n	co n fi d e n c e	r a i s e	co n c e r n s	
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and 
other matters
In addition, the fees and objectivity of the group’s auditor are 
considered by the committee. The committee recommends that 
shareholders re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the group’s auditor, in 
accordance with resolution 5 set out in the Notice of AGM, and 
authorises the directors to determine their remuneration, as set out  
in resolution 6. 
The committee periodically reviews its terms of reference and its 
effectiveness and recommends to the board any changes required  
as a result of such review.
Whilst only members of the committee are entitled to be present at 
meetings, the auditor, Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director may attend meetings by invitation. In accordance 
with the Code the board has undertaken an assessment of the need 
for a group internal audit function. The board considers that the control 
systems and procedures undertaken by the group are adequately 
performed by management and therefore does not currently propose 
to introduce a group internal audit function but will keep the matter 
under review. However detailed monthly reviews are carried out by 
the Finance Director for Operations and Financial Controller. This 
process has over the years identified a number of risks where action 
plans have been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate these 
risks, (including the use of insurance where appropriate. The Finance 
Director for Operations reports to the Group Finance Director and has 
access to the Chairman of the committee. The committee members, all 
other directors and senior executive management have direct access 
to the external auditor throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any 
issues or concerns. 
The committee has an agenda linked to events in the group’s financial 
calendar, normally meeting at least twice a year, including meetings 
before the annual and interim results announcements. The committee 
met three times in the year, members’ attendance record being given 
on page 33, during which it discharged its responsibilities as set out in 
its terms of reference and schedule of business for the year. The 
committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of 
reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain 
external professional advice at the cost of the company.
The committee has independent access to the external auditor who 
has direct access to the Chairman of the committee outside formal 
Corporate Governance
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     35
a ccounts
committee meetings and at each meeting there is an opportunity for 
the external auditor to discuss matters with the committee without any 
executive management being present. The Audit committee has the 
specific task of keeping under review the nature and extent of 
non-audit services provided by the external auditor in order to ensure 
that objectivity and independence are maintained. The committee 
seeks to balance the benefits of continuity of audit personnel and the 
need to ensure independence through a change of audit personnel by 
agreeing with the auditor staff rotation policies. Whilst KPMG have 
been an external auditor to the group since 1992, there is a 
procedure in place for the audit partner to change not more than 
every five years, so maintaining objectivity and independence without 
the need to change firm, the last such change taking place during 
201 1. The external auditor has in place processes to ensure its 
independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that, 
where it does provide non-audit services, its independence is not 
compromised. It has written to the Audit committee confirming that,  
in its opinion, it is independent. 
When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the group considers  
the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this 
respect it has used Deloitte to conduct non-audit tax work. The 
committee recognises that there are occasions when it is 
advantageous to use the external auditor to undertake non-audit 
services, when they are best placed to do so. The policy states that 
non-audit fees paid to the principal external auditor should not exceed 
250% of the audit fee, except in the case of significant events. The 
Chairman of the committee is required to authorise non-audit work 
above a pre-agreed threshold. A breakdown of 2010 and 201 1 audit 
and non-audit fees is provided in note 3 to the Financial Statements. 
The non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 201 1, 
predominantly in respect of iXBRL mapping, P1 1D software, advice in 
respect of VAT and corporate tax services to the group’s Continental 
European businesses amounting to £45,000 was below the pre-
agreed threshold.
The committee has concluded, as a result of its work during the year, 
that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has 
ensured, as far as possible by enquiry of them, the independence of 
the external auditors. The Chairman of the committee will be available 
at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of the committee. 
The terms of reference of the committee are available on request from 
the Company Secretary at the registered office and are available on 
the company’s website. 
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee is comprised of the three non-executive 
directors and was chaired during the year by Mike O’Leary. It 
establishes, on behalf of the board, the remuneration policy generally, 
approves specific arrangements for the Chairman and the executive 
directors and reviews and comments upon the proposed arrangements 
for senior executive management so as to ensure consistency within 
the overall remuneration policy and group strategy. Further information 
on the activities of the committee is given in the directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 38 to 48 which should be read in conjunction with 
this report. The directors’ Remuneration Report also describes how the 
principles of the Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters 
and includes a statement on the company’s policy on directors’ and 
senior executive managers’ remuneration, benefits, share scheme 
entitlements and pension arrangements. During the period no director 
was, and procedures are in place to ensure that no director is, 
involved in deciding or determining their own remuneration.  
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed  
at the AGM.
Nominations committee
The Nominations committee is comprised of the three non-executive 
directors and the Group Chief Executive and was chaired during the 
year by Mike O’Leary. The terms of reference of the committee are 
available on request to the Company Secretary at the registered office 
and are available on the company’s website.
The committee leads the process for identifying, and makes 
recommendations to the board on, candidates for appointment as 
directors of the company and as Company Secretary, giving full 
consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the 
group. It also makes recommendations to the board on the 
composition and Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration 
committees. It keeps under review the structure, size and composition 
of the board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, and 
makes recommendations to the board with regard to any changes. 
The committee meets when required and met once in the year, as 
reflected in the attendance record during 201 1 given on page 33. 
Only members of the committee are entitled to be present at meetings 
but others may be invited by the committee to attend. The board has 
agreed the procedures to be followed by the Nominations committee 
in making appointments to the various positions on the board and as 
Company Secretary. The committee has access to such information 
and advice both from within the group and externally, at the cost of 
the company, as it deems necessary. This may include the 
appointment of external executive search consultants, where 
appropriate. No director is involved in any decisions regarding their 
appointment.
The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive a full 
induction and when considering the re-appointment of directors 
ensures that the board has an appropriate balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience. Items discussed by the committee during 
the year to enable it to discharge its duties in accordance with its 
terms of reference included the proposals to re-elect Steve Wilson and 
Mike O’Leary under the retirement by rotation provisions. 
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates from 
the Group Chief Executive on succession and development planning 
for senior positions within the group. Changes to directors’ 
commitments are reported to the committee as they arise and are 
considered on their individual merits. There were no significant 
changes to any of the directors’ external commitments during the year. 
Appointments to the committee are made by the board.  36     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Communication with shareholders
The company places considerable importance on communication  
with shareholders. When reporting to shareholders, the board aims  
to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the group’s 
financial position and prospects, reporting four times a year when its 
half year and full year results are announced, and an interim and an 
annual report is issued to shareholders, and through interim 
management statements typically released in May and November. 
Further information regarding business developments is available to 
investors on the group’s website www.headlam.com. 
The company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings 
between the executive directors and institutional investors and analysts 
which cover strategy, trading and market conditions. Contact with the 
major shareholders is principally maintained by the Group Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director. During the year a number of 
meetings were held at certain of our businesses with the aim of 
providing shareholders with increased exposure to our operations and 
management. The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders 
are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have met with 
the company’s brokers during the year to ensure they are aware of the 
current views of major shareholders and of any material issues they 
may have. These reports include summaries on the market’s reaction  
to results announcements and the subsequent meetings between 
management and investors. External brokers’ reports on the company 
are circulated to all directors. Whilst the Senior Independent Director 
and the other non-executive directors are invited to attend 
presentations to analysts and institutional shareholders, in particular  
the annual and interim results presentations, they did not attend any 
meetings with shareholders in the year.
Risk management and internal controls
The Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness of the 
group’s system of internal control. The board recognises that the 
management of risk through the application of a consistent process is 
key to ensuring a robust system of internal control, the principle risks 
and uncertainties facing the company including some of those 
identified in the Director’s Report. This however is not an exhaustive list 
and there may be other risks that have not been considered or that the 
board consider now are insignificant or immaterial in nature, but that 
may arise and have a larger effect than originally expected.
Directors are required by the Code to review and report annually to 
shareholders on the effectiveness of the company’s systems of internal 
control, which includes financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management. The board has responsibility for establishing 
and maintaining the group’s systems of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness whilst management is responsible for the 
implementation of internal control systems. The internal control 
provisions of the Code continue to be applied by the board through  
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks the group faces. 
The group’s risk management processes seek to ensure sustainable 
development throughout the conduct of its business in a way which 
satisfies its customers, maintains proper relationships with suppliers and 
contractors, mitigate losses from unforeseen causes, provides a safe 
and healthy workplace, develops environmentally aware processes, 
minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources, 
reduces waste and maintains a positive relationship with the 
communities in which it operates. The systems are designed to meet 
the group’s particular needs and to manage rather than eliminate risks, 
by their nature, providing reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The measures taken, including 
physical controls, segregation of duties and reviews by management, 
are considered by the board to provide sufficient and objective 
assurance.
The board maintained its process of hierarchical reporting and review 
during the year in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the group’s 
systems of financial and non-financial controls. A comprehensive series 
of operating and financial control procedures applying to all 
businesses has been developed and the group finance team performs 
monthly reviews to verify that the businesses are complying with the 
prescribed operating and financial control procedures. Additionally, 
the board reviews risk management arrangements and the Audit 
committee receives reports from the external auditor on matters 
identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of 
accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed for 
completeness and accuracy. These procedures allow for successive 
assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management 
through to the board. Planned corrective actions are monitored for 
timely completion. The board has not identified any failings or 
weaknesses, or been advised of any, which it has determined to be 
significant during the course of its review of the system of internal 
control. There were in addition no changes in the group’s internal 
controls or financial reporting that have materially affected, or are 
reasonably likely to affect, the group’s systems of internal control.
A comprehensive planning system includes detailed reviews at all 
subsidiaries and formal reviews and approval of annual plans by the 
board. Actual performance is measured on a monthly basis against 
plan and prior year, including a detailed explanation of significant 
variances. Revenue, gross margin and cash flow, are reported on a 
daily basis against plan and prior year. The control procedures 
operated by the group are designed to ensure complete and accurate 
accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure 
to fraud. Guidelines for capital expenditure and investment appraisal 
include annual plans, detailed appraisal and review procedures, 
authority levels and due diligence requirements when businesses are 
acquired, the acquisition or disposal of a business requiring formal 
board approval. 
These detailed reviews are an important aspect of management 
reporting in the identification of new and emerging risks. An ongoing 
process of risk management and internal control in accordance with 
Corporate Governance
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     37
a ccounts
the Code has been in place for the financial year under review and 
up to the date of this report, the careful management of risk 
considered to be a key activity in delivering business opportunities. 
The ethos of the group, delegation of responsibility and other control 
procedures together with accounting policies and procedures are 
communicated through the group and employment handbook, 
supported by the group’s anti bribery policy communicated during the 
year. The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during 
the recruitment process and monitored throughout employment.
The group promotes a high standard of health and safety 
management at all levels supported by training programmes at 
operating businesses. Group health and safety rules are monitored 
and audited to promote a high level of awareness and commitment, 
with individual businesses assessed on a periodic basis. Remedial 
solutions are implemented where necessary, action plans and 
progress being monitored and reported. 
The Corporate Governance report and the Audit committee report 
contained within have been approved by the board and are signed 
on its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
9 March 2012 38     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of the company’s policies on directors’ and senior executive managements’ remuneration for 
the year ended 31 December 201 1 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years as well, and to provide details of the remuneration of 
individual directors as determined by the Remuneration committee (“the committee”).
It has been prepared by the committee on behalf of the board and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the UK Corporate Governance Code. It also meets the relevant 
requirements of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules. 
This report has been approved both by the committee and the board and, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be 
asked to approve the report by way of a resolution that will be proposed at the AGM of the company on Friday 15 June 2012, at which the 
Chairman of the committee will be available to answer any questions.
The first part of the report, commencing with the role of the committee, commentary on remuneration policy including share options, 
Co-Investment Plan awards and share scheme explanatory notes does not require to be audited. The second part commencing with directors 
remuneration and including a review of directors’ remuneration, detail of directors’ emoluments, share awards and options and pension 
arrangements does require to be, and has been, audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
Unaudited information
Composition of the Remuneration committee 
The committee is comprised of the Chairman, Mike O’Leary and two other non-executive directors. Mike O’Leary and Dick Peters served 
throughout both the period under review and the prior period, with Andrew Eastgate joining the committee on 17 May 2010 following his 
appointment as a non-executive director. The experience and responsibilities of committee members are set out in their biographies on page 24. 
The members have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest and, as 
independent non-executive directors, no day to day involvement in running the business. In accordance with the committee’s terms of reference, 
no one attending a committee meeting may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration. 
A table, identifying the committee members, other attendees and members’ record of attendance at the three meetings held during the year, is set 
out below.
   Number of meetings
Committee member Position Comments attended during the year Meetings eligible to attend
Mike O’Leary Chairman of the committee Senior Independent Director 3 3
Dick Peters Member Independent non-executive director 3 3
Andrew Eastgate Member Independent non-executive director 2 3
Committee attendee Position Comments  
Graham Waldron Chairman Attends by invitation 2 
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive Attends by invitation 3 
Steve Wilson Group Finance Director Attends by invitation 3 
Geoff Duggan Company Secretary Secretary to the committee 3 
The role of the Remuneration committee 
The committee is responsible for setting the framework and policy for the remuneration of executive directors which it reviews annually for 
appropriateness and relevance. It is committed to principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements 
demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance. In its work, the committee fully considers relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
including the provisions and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The committee has received delegated authority from the board to determine and agree the remuneration strategy for executive directors and 
senior executive management. When determining strategy, the committee recognises the importance of retaining capable individuals and the 
need to reward performance which contributes to the success of the company. 
Remuneration Report Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     39
a ccounts
It is also responsible for determining the specific elements of the executive directors’ and senior executive managements’ remuneration, 
performance targets, contractual terms and compensation arrangements. Furthermore, it ensures that in the event of termination, contractual terms 
and payments are fair both to the company and to the individual in that failure is not rewarded and the duty to mitigate loss is recognised. In 
addition, the committee oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the group and approves the design of all share 
incentive plans and, oversees any subsequent amendment. It reviews and recommends appropriate performance conditions and targets for the 
variable element of remuneration and determines the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved. 
In addition to receiving advice from its external consultants, members attend seminars on the subject and review data and surveys from a variety 
of published sources with particular reference to the scale and composition of the total remuneration packages to executives.
In setting remuneration policy and levels for the executive directors and senior executive management, the committee takes into account the 
economic environment and financial performance of the group, along with pay and employment conditions of other group employees, especially 
when determining base salary increases. 
The committee’s terms of reference are available from the company on request and are available on the company’s website, www.headlam.com. 
They are reviewed periodically to take account of best practice and corporate governance requirements and were last reviewed in 2010.
Remuneration policy
Following a review in October 201 1, the committee concluded that the current remuneration policy remains appropriate and the objectives 
continue to be:
•		 e n s u r e	t h a t	t h e	r e m u n e r a t i o n	s t r u c t u r e	s u p p o r t s	t h e	s t r a t e g y	o f	t h e	b u s i n e s s ;
•		 e n s u r e	t h a t	t h e	r e m u n e r a t i o n	s t r u c t u r e	m o t i v a t e s	t h e	e x e c u t i v e	d i r e c t o r s	a n d	s e n i o r	e x e c u t i v e	m a n a g e m e n t	t o	s u cc e e d	a n d	a p p r o p r i a t e l y	
rewards them for their contribution to the attainment of the group’s challenging short and long-term targets;
•		 m a i n t a i n ,	p a r t i c u l a r l y	t h r o u g h	r e w a r d	s c h e m e s	b a s e d	o n	p e r f o r m a n c e ,	a	co m p et i t i v e	p a c k a g e	o f	p a y	a n d	b e n e fi t s	w h i c h	p r o v i d e s	t h e	
motivation for future achievement;
•		 f a c i l i t a t e	t h e	b u i l d i n g	a n d	r et e n t i o n	o f	a	h i g h	c a l i b r e	a n d	f o c u s s e d	t e a m ,	w h i c h	w i l l	w o r k	e f f e c t i v e l y	t o	a c h i e v e	t h e	g r o u p ’ s	l o n g e r	t e r m	
strategic objectives;
•		 a l i g n	t h e	e x e c u t i v e	d i r e c t o r s ’	a n d	s e n i o r	e x e c u t i v e	m a n a g e m e n t	i n t e r e s t s	w i t h	t h o s e	o f	s h a r e h o l d e r s	by	o f f e r i n g	p a r t i c i p a t i o n	i n	s c h e m e s	w h i c h	
provide opportunities to build shareholdings in the company; and further encourage executive directors’ to build up meaningful shareholdings, 
and
•		 f a c i l i t a t e	e f f e c t i v e	s u cc e s s i o n	p l a n n i n g .
In order to encourage and reward enhanced business performance and shareholder returns, the committee considers that a substantial proportion 
of the executive director’s and senior executive management’s remuneration should be variable and performance related. The committee is 
satisfied that the incentive structure does not raise governance issues by inadvertently motivating or encouraging irresponsible or reckless 
behaviour.
In deciding that the current remuneration strategy remains appropriate for 2012, the committee has taken into account the group’s performance 
over the last year and the current economic environment. The remuneration policy will continue to be monitored and reviewed by the committee 
to ensure that the remuneration structure and associated performance measures remain appropriately aligned with the group’s strategic objectives. 
The individual salary, bonus and benefit levels of the executive directors and senior executive management are and will continue to be reviewed 
annually by the committee.
The committee considers that in making smaller but more frequent awards under the long-term incentive schemes, each subject to the attainment 
of specific performance targets over a three year period, it further aligns the interests of directors and senior executive management. 40     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Remuneration components
The current components of executive remuneration and how they are aligned with the overall business strategy are summarised in the table 
below: 
 Policy for executive directors and
Component senior executive management Purpose and link to business strategy
Base salaries - Reviewed annually - Market competitive salaries help the group to 
 - Influenced by role and experience  recruit, retain and motivate the best talent
 - Benchmarked using data from a variety of published sources 
Annual performance bonus - Based on achieving stretching group profit before tax targets - Alignment with the group’s strategic priorities of
 - Maximum of 150% of base salary   increasing market share and improving profitability
   - Maximum bonuses are only available for the   
    delivery of above target growth in earnings
2008 Co-Investment Plan  - Deferral of between 15% and 100% of annual bonus - Involves personal financial commitment
 - Other funds can be invested under certain circumstances - Encourages executives to increase their company  
 - Up to 2 for 1 matching subject to stretching EPS  shareholding
   and TSR targets - Aligns executives interests with long-term corporate  
    performance and shareholder returns 
Other benefits - The group provides a company car, medical insurance  - Provision of market typical employee benefits assist 
  and life assurance cover to its executive directors and   the group to recruit, retain and motivate
  senior executive management  
Base salaries
Generally, the appropriate market rate for comparable positions and levels of responsibility and the individual executive’s experience, 
performance and value to the business are reflected in the committee’s assessment of base salaries. 
 
The committee reviews base salary annually with any change taking effect from 1 January. When reviewing base salaries, the committee takes 
account of the current economic climate, challenges facing the business and pay environment for employees in general. In respect of 2012 it also 
considered that for three years from 2009 to 201 1, the executives’ base salaries had remained unchanged. The committee has approved an 
average inflationary increase of 2.5% to base salaries for the group’s workforce, including the executive directors and senior executive 
management. The exception to this increase will be where pay increases need to be granted to any employees whose base salary is 
considerably behind the market or to individuals who are promoted to a more senior role.
Annual performance bonus
The scheme focuses on annual objectives and links individual performance with a business financial target. The financial target is calculated by 
reference to the extent to which the group’s profit before tax meets the planned target. The annual performance related bonus scheme is reviewed 
by the committee to ensure that it remains competitive and, whilst subject to a stretching target, continues to offer an incentive to the executive 
directors and senior executive management. The committee establishes the financial target that must be attained if a bonus is to be paid, the 
target being designed to drive performance and to strengthen the alignment between the interests of shareholders and its senior management, 
whilst also encouraging management retention.
In 2010 the annual performance bonus comprised a cash bonus based on the achievement of the group’s financial target, with an award of 97% 
of base salary being paid. The bonus was based on 75% of base salary on attainment of target plus a further 22% for attainment of above 
target performance, such outperformance being calculated by reference to a predetermined matrix, subject to a maximum of 150% of base 
salary.
The basis of the performance related scheme for 201 1 was unchanged from that in respect of 2010, also being based on the achievement of  
a profit before tax target. Growth in market share and increasing profitability continued to be an area of major focus for the group in 201 1.  
A bonus of 75% of base salary was attainable on achievement of the performance target, with a maximum bonus, under the scheme, of 150% 
Remuneration Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     41
a ccounts
for over-achievement against the target. In the event that 90% of the financial target was achieved, a bonus of 10% of base salary was to be 
awarded below which, no bonus was to be awarded. In adopting the performance parameters described above, the committee decided that 
there would be no discretion to make bonus awards for further over or under performance.
The committee is satisfied that the profit before tax target for 201 1 was exceeded and accordingly performance-related bonuses, including 
24.7% of base salary in respect of over-achievement, were awarded to the executive directors as shown in the table below.
The performance related components of remuneration for executive directors and senior executive management are paid in March following the 
completion of the annual audit.
For 2012, the basis for calculating the annual performance bonus remains the same as that used for 2010 and 201 1. On achievement of the 
profit before tax target, a bonus of 75% of base salary will be applicable, whilst a performance of 90% profit before tax target gives rise to a 
10% bonus with incremental adjustments between these two measures. The maximum bonus payment of 150% of base salary will only be paid 
for achievement of a performance that is 28% or more above the profit before tax target.
Bonus ranges for 2011 and 2012 and actual bonus outcome for 2011 as a percentage of salary
  Maximum bonus 
Executive Director Actual bonus level opportunity Target bonus level
Group Chief Executive 99.7% 150% 75%
Group Finance Director 99.7% 150% 75%
Chairman – – –
Share incentive arrangements
In order to align their interests with the company’s shareholders, the committee is keen to encourage executive directors and senior executive 
management to increase their shareholdings in the company, although it notes that the current executive directors have significant personal 
shareholdings. The committee recognises the importance of share incentives in recruiting and retaining directors and employees on whose 
performance the success of the company depends. The share incentive arrangements also provide a key link between rewards to executive 
directors and senior executive management and the achievement of a sustained improvement in long-term financial performance.
Shareholders have approved one employee sharesave scheme, two share option schemes and two executive share schemes. 
The Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme (“SAYE”), adopted in June 2002 is open to all eligible employees on the same basis, including 
executive directors, providing a long-term savings and investment opportunity. A resolution to approve the adoption of a new SAYE scheme on 
expiry of the current one is included in the 15 June 2012 AGM Notice of Meeting. 
The two share option schemes, Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 and the Headlam Group Unapproved 
Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 (“ESOS”) and two executive share schemes, Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (“CIP”), Headlam 
Group Performance Share Plan 2008 (“PSP”), were approved in June 2008.
The committee intend to use the CIP and PSP as the principal incentive vehicles for executive directors and senior executive management, with 
awards being made on an annual basis. Whilst awards have been made under the CIP, as detailed below, the committee has not yet 
implemented the PSP and does not intend to do so during 2012. The committee anticipates using the ESOS to reward employees below the 
board and it is not the current intention to grant awards under the ESOS to executive directors or senior executive management. The committee 
determines if performance conditions, to enable an award under the CIP, have been met once the EPS and TSR figures are known for the relevant 
financial years.
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the “CIP”)
Participants may be invited, at the discretion of the committee, to take not less than 15% and up to 100% of their annual bonus in the form of 
shares, the number of shares allocated being calculated by reference to the net value of the bonus after deduction of income tax and employees 
national insurance. If an annual bonus award is not achieved in any year and therefore not available for investment in the CIP, the committee 
may permit participants to invest alternative funds but subject to a maximum of 50% of any bonus paid in the preceding year. In addition, instead 
of investing a bonus award or other funds, the participant may utilise shares already held and previously acquired in the market. Initially this  42     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
option was to only apply to the first year in which the award was made but, has subsequently been amended, by shareholder approval in 201 1, 
and now applies to subsequent awards as well.
Participants, having accepted the invitation, are then granted awards in the form of matching share awards. The maximum value of the matching 
share award is twice the value of the shares that would have been acquired with the gross bonus award. It is currently intended that awards will 
be satisfied by the transfer of shares from an employee share trust, such shares having been acquired by the trust on the market to the extent 
required. Subject to the satisfaction in full or part of the relevant performance targets, an award will be exercisable between three and ten years 
after the award date.
Performance targets are measured over a fixed period of three years, beginning not earlier than the year in which an award is made. On 
adoption of the scheme in 2008 they were a mix of Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth targets and total shareholder return (“TSR”) targets against 
the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment trusts, with 50% of the award determined by the EPS growth targets and 50% by the TSR targets. The 
FTSE 250 index had been chosen as it was a relevant broad based equity index in which the group had over a number of years been a 
constituent member. 
The committee considers that achieving real EPS growth in the medium term is of paramount importance for the long-term success of the business 
and is a measure more reflective of management performance. By contrast, TSR is a market driven measurement affected by macro-economic 
influences many of which, are not within management’s control. After considering the performance targets during 201 1, the committee decided to 
change the basis of measurement to the FTSE SmallCap Index with 80% of the award determined by EPS growth targets and 20% by TSR 
targets. The committee carefully considered using a specific comparator group rather than a broad index but regarded the FTSE SmallCap index 
as a relevant broad based equity index particularly since the company is now a constituent member.
 
Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 (the “PSP”)
The PSP provides for the grant of non-transferable awards, in the form of nil cost options, to acquire existing shares. It is currently intended that 
awards will be satisfied by the transfer of shares from an employee share trust, such shares having been acquired by the trust on the market.
Whilst selected directors and employees are eligible to participate at the discretion of the committee, it is intended that only the executive 
directors and senior executive management will participate in the PSP. The aggregate market value of shares over which an award may normally 
be made to a participant in any year may not exceed their basic annual salary. However, awards may be made in excess of this limit in 
circumstances the committee deem exceptional. Subject to the satisfaction in full or part of performance targets, an award will be exercisable 
between three and ten years after the award date.
Under the rules of the plan, performance targets are to be measured over a fixed period of three years, beginning not earlier than the year in 
which an award is made. Performance targets are to be a mix of EPS growth targets and TSR measured against an appropriate index. Subject to 
committee approval before awards are granted, any awards made in the 2008 year when the scheme was adopted were to be split with 50% 
determined by an EPS growth target and 50% by a TSR target. The targets that would have applied to the original award are those described 
below and are the same as those that apply to any awards under the CIP. To date there have been no options granted under this scheme and 
the committee has no current intention to implement the PSP in 2012.
Vesting of the TSR and EPS elements under the CIP and PSP
TSR ranking of the group Matching under the CIP Vesting under the PSP*
Below median None 0%
Median 1 for 1 matching 30%
Upper quartile 2 for 1 matching 100%
Between median and upper quartile Straight line matching Straight line vesting
Remuneration Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     43
a ccounts
Vesting of the EPS element under the CIP and PSP
EPS growth relative to RPI Matching under the CIP Vesting under the PSP*
Less than RPI+3% p.a. None  0%
RPI+3% p.a. 1 for 1 matching 30%
RPI+6% p.a. 2 for 1 matching 100%
Between median and upper quartile Straight line matching Straight line vesting
Actual Long Term Incentive Awards
In August 201 1 awards were granted under the CIP to the executive directors and senior executive management which were subject, similar to 
awards made in October 2010, to the TSR and EPS performance targets described above. In considering making awards in 201 1, the 
committee had due regard to the macro-economic influences on TSR, many of which were not within management’s control. As a result the 
committee decided to grant awards in 201 1 that were weighted 20% to TSR and 80% to EPS performance targets, also amending awards made 
in 2010 to reflect the same proportion. The awards were determined by reference to prior year bonus with matching share awards of up to 2 for 
1, dependent on achievement of the performance targets. In 2010 shareholders approved an amendment to the rules allowing participants to 
use existing shareholdings to fund grants made under the scheme up to a value of one times base salary, to be over a number of grant years 
rather than all in the first year of grant as envisaged in 2008 when the scheme was first adopted. 
Headlam Group Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes 2008
The schemes are respectively, an HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) approved discretionary share option scheme and a non-HMRC approved 
discretionary share option scheme which provide for the grant of non-transferrable options to acquire ordinary shares in the company by way of 
purchase or subscription to eligible employees. It is intended the executive directors and senior executive management will not participate in 
these schemes in the future.
The exercise price of an option cannot be less than the market value of a share at the date of grant, or in the case of subscription, not less than 
the share’s nominal value. Options may normally be exercised three years after the grant date subject to the satisfaction in full or part of 
performance targets. They cannot however be exercised more than ten years after the grant date.
On adoption of the schemes in 2008, the performance target for options granted in the first year was EPS growth against growth in the Retail 
Prices Index (“RPI”) over a three year performance period, measured on a scaling basis. To date there have been no options granted under either 
of these schemes.
Headlam Group Executive Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes 1998
As set out in the analysis of share options in note 21, there are options granted in 2005 that could still be exercised. The performance targets for 
options granted under the 1998 Share Option Schemes are based on the extent to which growth in the group’s EPS exceeds growth in RPI over 
a three year performance period, EPS being calculated on a fully diluted basis. In respect of the approved scheme, EPS growth must exceed RPI 
by 3% per annum over the three year performance period. In respect of the unapproved scheme, for options up to one times eligible earnings, 
EPS growth must exceed RPI growth by 3% per annum over the three year performance period and by 5% over the three year performance 
period for options granted of between one times and two times eligible earnings. The committee felt that these performance conditions were 
appropriate at the time the options were granted.
Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002
The group encourages share ownership by employees. With the exception of non-executive directors, all employees are eligible to participate  
in the scheme. Options granted under the scheme may not normally be exercisable until the option holder has completed their three or five year 
savings contract, monthly savings being a minimum of £10 and a maximum of £250. Under the scheme, options may be granted at a price 
which represents a 20% discount to market price at the date of grant. Shareholders are being asked to adopt a new HMRC approved SAYE 
scheme at the AGM on 15 June 2012 on expiry of the current scheme. 
 
Dilution
The committee is aware of, and supports, the ABI guidelines regarding dilution and regularly monitors compliance with these requirements.  
The committee included provisions which limit the number of newly issued shares which can be granted in a 10 year period to 10% of the issued 
share capital under all employee schemes and 5% under the discretionary share plans. 44     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
As at the date of this report, the company’s usage of shares against the limits detailed above in respect of the all employee schemes was 4%  
of the issued share capital and in respect of grants under discretionary plans was 2% of issued capital. It is the intention that options exercised 
under the SAYE scheme and the two executive share option schemes are satisfied by shares held in treasury. With regard to the PSP and the CIP 
it is the committee’s intention to make market purchases of shares through a trust, if required, taking into account the likelihood of any performance 
targets being met and also potential lapsing of awards when employees leave employment.
Further information on share-based payments is set out in note 21 to the Financial Statements.
Other benefits
Executive directors receive taxable benefits comprising a company car and fuel and non-contributory private medical insurance, which are similar 
to those provided in comparable companies.
Retirement benefits
The group provides an opportunity for its directors and senior executive management to participate in occupational pension arrangements.  
Detail regarding the structure and nature of the pension plans is given on page 47 .
Service contracts
The current policy is for executive directors’ service contract notice periods to be normally no longer than twelve months. The service contracts  
of the executive directors’ have no fixed term but provide that either the director or the company may terminate the employment by giving twelve 
months written notice and that the company may pay compensation in lieu of notice. All future appointments to the board will comply with this 
requirement. 
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a change of control clause. It is the company’s policy to ensure that any payments 
made to a director in the event of the early termination of a service agreement reflect the circumstances giving rise to termination and, where 
considered appropriate, the obligation of the outgoing director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration is given to making compensation 
payments in instalments and is conditional on the leaver’s employment and earnings status. The service agreements of the executive directors who 
served during the twelve months ended 31 December 201 1 were entered into on 1 1 October 2005.
The Chairman does not hold a service contract and does not participate in the company’s executive share schemes, incentive plans or pension 
schemes. Additionally, he is not a member of the various committees of the board.
The service agreements of the continuing directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business 
hours on each business day.
External appointments of executive directors
The board believes that experience of other companies’ practices and challenges is valuable both for the personal development of its executive 
directors and for the company. It is therefore the company’s policy to allow each executive director to accept one non-executive directorship of 
another company, provided that there is no conflict of interest, although the board retains the discretion to vary this policy. Fees received by 
executive directors in respect of external non-executive appointments are retained by the individual director. 
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service agreements but instead are appointed for an initial period of three years by letter of appointment 
which is terminable by either party subject to one month’s notice, for which no compensation is payable. Letters of appointment for non-executive 
directors are available on application to the Company Secretary. At the end of the initial period, the company discusses with the non-executive 
director whether they wish to renew their appointment and if it is in the best interests of the company for their appointment to be renewed. Such 
renewal would normally be for a further period of three years and subject to the same termination conditions. Non-executive directors are 
typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the board may invite them to serve for an additional period. All appointments and 
subsequent re-appointment are subject to approval by shareholders. None of the executive directors currently hold non-executive appointments. 
Remuneration Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     45
a ccounts
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed by the board annually by reference to prevailing market conditions and at a level which will attract 
individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a positive contribution to the group’s affairs. The annual fees were reviewed with 
effect from 1 January increasing by 2.5% to £35,875, with an additional £5,125 being paid to the respective chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration committees. Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussion or decision about their own remuneration nor do they 
participate in any of the company’s share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes. The aggregate limit for fees paid to non-executive 
directors is laid down in the articles. Mike O’Leary has been designated Senior Independent Director for which he receives no additional fees.
Most recent re-election dates
The table below shows the dates of appointment and the most recent re-election dates for directors.
Name of director Date of appointment Date of last re-election at an AGM
Executive Directors  
Graham Waldron June 1991 June 2010
Tony Brewer June 1991 June 201 1
Steve Wilson December 1991 June 2009
  
Non-executive Directors  
Dick Peters December 2005 June 2010
Mike O’Leary March 2006 June 2009
Andrew Eastgate May 2010 June 201 1
Directors’ interests in shares
The table below has been prepared in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R as required by Section 822 of the Companies Act 2006. It shows 
the beneficial interests of directors, including family interests, who served in the year to 31 December 201 1 or who hold office at the date of this 
report in the issued share capital of the company. 
Name of director Shareholdings at 31 December 2011 Shareholdings at 31 December 2010
Executive Directors  
Graham Waldron 360,638 360,638
Tony Brewer 519,942 519,942
Steve Wilson 450,770 400,770
  
Non-executive Directors  
Dick Peters 5,000 5,000
Mike O’Leary 1,000 –
Andrew Eastgate 1,000 –
There were no changes in the beneficial interests of the directors in the company’s shares between 31 December 201 1 and 9 March 2012.
Shareholding guidelines for executive directors
It is the company’s policy that executive directors are required to have a beneficial, including family, interest, in the shares of the company 
equivalent in value to at least once time’s base salary. Newly appointed directors are expected to build their interest over a five year period.  
The executive directors currently meet these guidelines, as shown in the table above. 46     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Performance graph
The graph below has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts Reports) Regulations 2008. It shows the total shareholder return for a holding in the company’s shares for the period from  
1 January 2006 to 31 December 201 1 relative to a holding of shares representing the FTSE SmallCap index. The calculation of the return 
assumes dividends are reinvested to purchase additional equity. The FTSE SmallCap index is a broad index that allows comparison of the 
company’s performance against the performance of the index within which it is a constituent member, as a whole. Household goods and  
textiles is the sector in which the company’s share price is reported. 
Total shareholder return 
Remuneration Report
continued
5 Year Return Index for FTSE Small Cap as at 31 December 2011
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Source: Thomson Financial
Headlam Group plc
FTSE Small Cap Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     47
a ccounts
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of each director, excluding long-term, share based incentive schemes and pensions, for the year ended 31 December 201 1 
compared to 2010 is shown below. 
   Performance
 Salary and fees Benefits related pay Total
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors        
Tony Brewer 520  520 24 35 518 504 1,062 1,059
Steve Wilson 376  376 31 31 374 364 781  771
Graham Waldron 115  1 15 21 19 – – 136  134
        
Non-executive directors        
Andrew Eastgate (ii) 35  22 – – – – 35  22
David Grove (i) –  8 – – – – –  8
Mike O’Leary 40  40 – – – – 40  40
Dick Peters 40  40 – – – – 40  40
 1,126 1,121 76 85 892 868 2,094 2,074
(i)  David Grove resigned from the board on 17 March 2010
(ii) Andrew Eastgate was appointed on 17 May 2010
Benefits are in respect of taxable benefits arising from employment by the company and relate to the provision of a company car and fuel and 
private medical insurance. Gains made by executive directors in respect of share awards are excluded from the table above.
Pension benefits
With respect to executive directors, the group’s defined benefit pension scheme provided benefits at a normal retirement age of fifty five based 
upon pensionable earnings and pensionable service. The maximum pension payable under the scheme was equivalent to an amount that would 
not have resulted in any additional tax charge being payable under HMRC rules. The scheme included pension provisions for members’ 
dependants. Lump sum death in service benefits are provided through a separate scheme. Benefit accrual in respect of Tony Brewer ceased at 
the end of 2010 when he elected to transfer his benefits to a self invested pension plan (“SIPP”). The company contributed £32,81 1 to Tony 
Brewer’s SIPP during the year following which it has no further obligation to provide future pension benefit. Steve Wilson transferred his benefits  
to a SIPP during 2010 and the company’s obligation to provide future pension benefit ceased on the date of transfer.
Directors’ interests in share option schemes
Matching share awards under the CIP were granted for nil consideration on 23 August 201 1 when the price of an ordinary share was 260.00 
pence. The awards are subject to the performance conditions as outlined in the policy section with an exercise price of an aggregate £1 for all 
the matching award shares. 48     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Details of executive directors’ interests in the SAYE scheme, executive share option schemes and CIP are set out below, a description of which is 
given on pages 41 to 43:
       Date
 Options Options Options Options Options  from which
 held at granted cancelled exercised held at Exercise exercisable/ 
 1 January during during during 31 December price vesting Expiry
 2011 the year the year the year 2011 (pence) date date
Tony Brewer        
1998 USOS (i) 342,858 – – – 342,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7 ,142 – – – 7 ,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 7 ,043 – – – 7 ,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
CIP (iv) 98,859 – – – 98,859 nil Oct 2013 Oct 2020
CIP (iv) – 100,000 – – 100,000 nil Aug 2014 Aug 2021
Steve Wilson        
1998 USOS (i) 242,858 – – – 242,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7 ,142 – – – 7 ,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 7 ,043 – – – 7 ,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
CIP (iv) 71,388 – – – 71,388 nil Oct 2013 Oct 2020
CIP (iv) – 72,212 – – 72,212 nil Aug 2014 Aug 2021
Graham Waldron        
Sharesave (iii) 4,1 17 – – – 4,1 17 222.20 Jul 2012 Jan 2013
(i)  Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 USOS)
 Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 43.
(ii)  Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 ESOS)
 Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 43.
(iii)  Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 (Sharesave)
 Details of the operation of the scheme are provided on page 43.
(iv) Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (CIP)
 Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on pages 41 and 42.
The mid market closing price of a Headlam Group plc ordinary share on 31 December 201 1, the last trading day of the financial year, was 
255.00p and the price range during the year was 233.25p to 354.00p, with an average price of 284.86p. There were no changes in the 
options held by the directors between 31 December 201 1 and 9 March 2012. The company’s register of director’s interests, which is open to 
inspection, contains full details of directors’ share interests.
Gains made by directors
The aggregate amount of gains made by executive directors on the exercise of share options was £nil (2010: £nil). 
Awards under the Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002
On 1 1 May 201 1, options were granted by the company over 206,242 shares to 145 employees for terms of either three or five years at an 
option price of 246.00p per share, representing a 20% discount to the average market price of the three days immediately preceding the 
award. 
This report has been approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by
Mike O’Leary
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2012
Remuneration Report
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     49
a ccounts
The company is committed to managing its business in a socially 
responsible manner aiming to improve the management of social, 
environmental and economic issues within its control or influence 
throughout the business and its supply network.
We recognise that the proper management of corporate social 
responsibility (“CSR”) makes good business sense and can result in 
strategic, commercial and reputational benefits. The group has 
reviewed its CSR policy to ensure that it meets the needs of the 
markets and communities in which it operates. The approach aims to 
recognise the importance of CSR issues, to encourage and facilitate 
positive management behaviour whilst aligned with the group’s 
business strategy. It also seeks to take proper account of the morale 
and welfare of our employees, the satisfaction of our customers and 
our impact on the environment. In doing so, communication with our 
stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, 
local communities and government and non-governmental 
organisations, is considered to be an essential part and we aim to be 
open and transparent in all that we do. Communication is through a 
variety of channels including the AGM, Annual Report and Accounts, 
Interim report, Interim Management Statements and trading updates, 
all of which are available on our website at www.headlam.com. 
Significant matters relating to trading and the development of the 
business are disseminated to the market by way of announcements via 
a regulatory information service and those announcements appear as 
soon as practicable on our website. In addition face to face meetings 
are held with our major institutional shareholders to both assist them 
with their understanding of the announcements but also to ensure that 
the board is aware of their views and concerns.
Communication with employees is predominantly through our 
employee handbook which includes our ethics, fraud and whistle 
blowing policies. All of our employees are required to act ethically 
and responsibly in all of our business dealings with stakeholders.  
An updated anti bribery policy has been issued and communicated  
to our employees during the year following the implementation of the 
Bribery Act 2010. We do not permit bribery, anti-competitive or 
corrupt practices in any of our business dealings. We are committed 
to continuous improvements in all aspects of CSR, our policies, our 
systems, our performance and our reporting.
Social and environmental factors are considered by individual 
businesses within the group and at a group level, managing 
relationships with stakeholders and communicating with them 
professionally and responsibly. Our approach towards charitable 
donations and our support in local communities is set out in the 
Director’s Report. In the latter part of the year the group introduced a 
charitable payroll giving scheme, Pennies from Heaven, whereby the 
group matches the monthly contributions made by employees, inclusive 
of gift aid. Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity and 
MacMillan Cancer Support are the charities benefiting from the 
scheme. In addition, employees participated in a variety of fund 
raising activities and supported charities local to their businesses. 
We have continued to make progress in our use of natural resources, 
waste and energy management, health and safety and staff 
development and welfare.
Health and safety
The group’s policy on health and safety seeks to ensure that the 
group’s operations are carried out at all times in compliance with the 
relevant health and safety guidance in the jurisdictions in which we 
operate. We aim to ensure the health and safety at work of 
employees and all persons likely to be affected, including contractors, 
customers, staff and members of the public where appropriate. It is at 
the heart of our corporate responsibility. A fundamental part of our 
business involves protecting our employees, contractors and visitors 
from injury. 
The group health and safety policy, developed over a number of 
years, is tailored to each of our business operations and the 
circumstances in which they operate, amendments arising as changes 
in procedures and processes are considered appropriate which also 
result in some minor modifications to our control and inspection 
procedures. We are committed to developing and maintaining a 
positive health and safety culture in which statutory requirements are 
viewed as a minimum and continually strive for improvement. 
The board, which endorses the health and safety policy, receives a 
detailed presentation on health and safety matters on an annual basis 
with interim updates as considered necessary. The presentation 
includes a detailed review on health and safety issues at each trading 
location, including comment on improvements recommended following 
inspections undertaken by our advisers. These inspections form the 
basis on which we determine our standards, being continually 
reviewed and standards raised. Additional inspections are undertaken 
where changes to operations have occurred or new premises 
occupied. These are complemented by annual inspections of racking 
systems carried out by independent externally appointed assessors 
and in the UK, risk inspections undertaken by our insurers at several  
of our businesses. The presentation also outlines planned health and 
safety initiatives intended to improve standards and comments on 
potential future legislative and best practice developments and 
challenges.
UK businesses, on not less than an annual basis, each receive a 
bespoke comprehensive health and safety manual for use as a source 
of information, guidance and training together with a set of 
compliance documentation which is reviewed, and updated as 
necessary. Each of our businesses promotes health and safety 
committees comprising representatives from the various business 
departments. These meet on a periodic basis and are co-ordinated  
by the health and safety manager on site. Management teams are 
encouraged to create a supportive culture recognising the value of 
employee participation.
Corporate and Social Responsibility 50     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Employee induction includes relevant health and safety information,  
so ensuring all employees are aware of our policies, and guidance 
and managers are guided and supported in risk assessment 
techniques. Job specific training undertaken with employees, including 
periodic refresher training, is supported by good practice guides 
which set out the important do’s and don’ts associated with many of 
the roles and duties undertaken by employees. Employee training 
packs have been reviewed during the year and their scope 
expanded. They include an awareness of impending changes in 
relevant legislation and other specialist subjects. Courses provided by 
external assessors complement in house forklift truck training 
undertaken on a one to one basis. Local management responsible for 
health and safety has completed the Institute of Safety and Health 
Managing Safely Course. 
Through periodic review and consistent reporting structures, we seek to 
ensure that we make our employees aware of our high standards of 
health and safety and continue to improve health and safety systems, 
procedures and guidance, providing adequate resources in doing so. 
Our businesses maintain good relationships with health and safety 
and environmental health regulators with positive and prompt 
responses to any findings and/or observations following compliance 
inspections.
Whilst the current low frequency of reportable accidents reflects the 
success of our health and safety policies we continue to aim for lower 
levels. In 201 1 we experienced twenty accidents that necessitated a 
report to the Health and Safety Executive in compliance with the 
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 
Regulations 1995. These were predominantly in respect of slips, trips 
and falls, none of which resulted in serious injury. All reportable 
accidents are investigated and in the minority of instances where 
improvement is required, changes are implemented in a timely manner. 
There were no prosecutions for breaches of health and safety or 
enforcement actions in the year. 
Introduced in 2010, the continuing professional competence scheme 
(“CPC”) requires commercial vehicle drivers to undertake five days 
CPC training in a five year period. In order to ensure so far as 
possible that our drivers comply, the group provides a day’s training in 
the year for each commercial vehicle driver utilising the services of an 
external training agency. The subject matter in 201 1 included drivers 
working time and associated tachograph usage, defensive driving 
and fuel efficient techniques. CPC training in 2012 will include drivers 
working time, digital tachograph operation, hazard perception, 
vehicle conditions and defect checks, new technology and future 
legislation.
Management remains committed to providing a safe working 
environment with the appropriate working practices and training 
however this can only be achieved if employees equally give their 
commitment to a rigorous health and safety culture. This is kept at the 
forefront through periodic refresher training. Where appropriate, 
investment will be made in automated dispatch sortation equipment  
to reduce manual handling.
Containment and inspection regimes in higher risk areas such as fuel 
and lubrication stores, compressors and fork lift truck battery charging 
areas, are kept under review, fire risk protection having been 
improved, training and awareness increased and special containers 
sited remote from the main buildings for the storage of flammable 
products.
People
It is the group’s policy that all employees, irrespective of age, gender, 
ethnic origin, religion or disability should have access to employment 
opportunities. Consideration is given to applications for employment 
having due regard to the particular aptitudes and abilities of the 
applicants and to our responsibilities under the Disability Discrimination 
Act. Cognisant of the nature of the group’s activities, where 
practicable, employees who develop a disability during employment 
are given the opportunity to retrain for alternative employment. 
The group has designed its recruitment, training and development 
processes in order to ensure that it has suitably skilled and qualified 
employees to meet the operational needs of the business, also 
participating in work experience placement schemes. The group is 
committed to developing the potential of its people offering 
opportunities for employees to develop and grow, periodically 
reviewing its succession planning processes. The majority of training  
is delivered through internal resources, a significant proportion of 
which is on a one to one basis, with assistance from external providers 
as and when required. Employee turnover remains low resulting in a 
stable employee base.
The continued success of our business relies on good relations and 
communications with employees and on the provision of a workplace 
that is safe and environmentally sound, which complies with 
applicable laws and regulations and so provides an environment in 
which people can flourish and succeed. Our employees’ wellbeing 
and professional development is a key element to recruiting and 
retaining high performing individuals. Our people seek to deliver their 
best for the business, which combined with a fair and responsible way 
of doing business, generates a common ambition to add value. 
The group expects employees to respect confidential information, 
company time and assets and believes in open and honest 
communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities, supporting  
the fundamental principles of good governance.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     51
a ccounts
It is the group’s continued practice to maintain employee participation 
and involvement in matters which affect their interests through formal 
and informal meetings, placing considerable value on the involvement 
of its employees. Communication between business unit management 
and employees is valued on matters affecting the welfare of the 
business, which includes regular senior management visits to operating 
units. Employees continue to be informed on matters affecting them 
and on the various factors affecting the performance of the group. 
One aspect is the group’s Annual Report and Accounts which provide 
employees with a greater awareness of the group’s performance as 
well as the financial and economic factors that affect it. 
Eligible employees are able to benefit from the group’s performance 
through participation in share schemes, including a savings related 
share scheme. Considering it important for its employees to make 
provision for their retirement, the group offers opportunities for 
participation in retirement plans, also providing death in service 
benefits through a group life assurance scheme.
Environmental
The business operates distribution facilities in the UK, France, 
Switzerland and the Netherlands, each involved in the wholesale 
distribution of floorcoverings and associated products. As a wholesale 
distributor, we are not a significant consumer of electricity, gas or 
water. Our requirement for electricity is predominantly in respect of 
fork lift truck battery charging, the operation of specialist cutting tables 
used to cut lengths from full and part rolls of broadloom products, 
associated mechanical handling and compressed air equipment, 
office and warehouse lighting and office equipment. Gas is consumed 
predominantly in respect of office heating and very limited localised 
radiant heating above parts of the cutting tables located within the 
distribution centre. 
Whilst water consumption is predominantly in respect of employee 
welfare and commercial vehicle washing, some of which filter and 
recycle wash water, we incur the majority of our water charges in 
respect of fixed water rates relating to rain water discharge from 
business locations. We seek to reduce charges by analysing invoices 
received in respect of water and through the installation of water 
meters, and make consumption savings in electricity, gas and water 
through the introduction on repair, renewal or installation of energy  
or water efficient techniques and equipment. 
The actual cost of electricity, gas and water charges in 201 1 
amounted to 0.20% of revenue, a reduction of 0.02% on prior year. 
The group was required to register under the carbon reduction 
commitment scheme that came into effect in 2010, having electricity 
consumption in 2008 when data was first collected, of 5,323 MWh 
in respect of its half hourly metered premises, 6,000 MWh 
consumption being the lower limit for compliance. 
The voluntary installation of automated meter reading is being 
considered in respect of sites with non-half hourly electricity meters,  
the benefit over time being in the more detailed management of 
consumption.
Modern energy efficient construction techniques and products are 
incorporated when we invest in new facilities or undertake 
refurbishment or repair works. During the year, when refurbishing  
two of our distribution facilities, we installed intelligent lighting into  
the warehouse which is both more efficient and movement sensitive, 
automatically switching off during periods of inactivity. Future projects 
will similarly incorporate intelligent lighting systems and where 
practical, renewable energy solutions. Due to the nature of our 
business and with our proactive approach when planning and 
developing new facilities, we believe that our activities generally  
have a low impact on the environment, with no environmental legal  
or compliance issues arising during the year.
The waste arising from our operations is predominantly protective 
plastic packaging, polythene wrapping, cardboard poles and boxes 
and wooden pallets. The cardboard poles in the centre of full and 
part rolls and cut lengths of carpet and vinyl delivered to our customers 
are later collected and re-used to destruction. We continue to increase 
the percentage that we recycle, baling plastics and cardboard and 
stacking unwanted pallets for dispatch to specialist re-processing 
agents when it is economic to do so. This has significantly reduced  
the amount of our waste going to landfill sites. Guidance on waste 
management is issued to the managers of the individual businesses  
to increase awareness of the need to control and reduce waste. 
Where possible, wrapping and packing materials are sourced from 
manufacturers where a high proportion of recycled materials are used. 
In addition to the above, we recycle and shred paper, aluminium 
cans, plastics and general waste.
During the year, the group became a key funding member of Carpet 
Recycling UK, a not for profit organisation formed with the aim of 
diverting carpet material from landfill through developing an end 
market for reprocessing and fibre recovery. 
Commercial and motor vehicles are replaced respectively on a five 
and three yearly basis in doing so improving operational efficiencies 
and reducing operating costs and vehicle emissions. As a result, all of 
our commercial vehicles comply with Euro 4 emission standards 
introduced in October 2006, which reduced the levels of carbon 
monoxide, hydrocarbon, nitrogen oxide and particulate emissions. 
Those registered between October 2008 and current date are Euro 5 
compliant, which further reduce levels of noxious emissions that cause 
harm to the environment. We periodically review our fleet requirements 
to ensure the optimum design to maximise capacity and improve 
aerodynamics.  52     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Achieving sustained growth and profitability
Whilst seeking to achieve the group’s goal of sustained growth and 
profitability there are a number of areas which will assist in meeting 
our CSR obligations while, at the same time, attaining our financial 
objectives.
Representatives from our businesses visit supplier premises on a 
periodic basis to improve our understanding and control of our supply 
chain and to ensure as far as possible that adequate standards are 
operated. We continue to investigate the benefits from using green 
specification guides and modify our strategy accordingly and to  
work with suppliers to ensure where appropriate products are supplied 
from renewable sources, including recycled products, and that their 
manufacturing processes fairly reward employees and do not seek  
to exploit. 
We seek to manage our operations to minimise the likelihood of 
adverse impact, minimising energy consumption utilising energy 
efficient lighting and heating. New facilities are subjected to an 
environmental assessment prior to construction allowing solutions to 
any identified environmental issues to be incorporated into the 
planning process. We seek to minimise energy consumption during  
the construction of new premises and the effects on the environment, 
wherever possible, subject to the operating constraints of the business, 
retaining and augmenting existing trees and vegetation. Existing sites 
are maintained in a tidy condition to minimise ecological impact.  
We work with local authorities to design new facilities which not only 
comply with guidelines but seek to blend in with their surroundings 
through the careful use of quality materials, landscaping and design 
features, recognising that our business operations will be around for 
many years, thereby having an impact on future generations. We 
support the desire to see development take place in sustainable 
locations and when designing new facilities, work with transport 
consultants to formulate green travel plans incorporating car sharing 
schemes and provision for bicycles.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     53
a ccounts
We have audited the Financial Statements of Headlam Group plc  
for the year ended 31 December 201 1 set out on pages 54 to 104.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. This report is made solely to 
the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3  
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 31, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion 
on, the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 t h e	F i n a n c i a l	S t a t e m e n t s	g i v e	a	t r u e	a n d	f a i r	v i e w	o f	t h e	s t a t e	 
of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 201 1 and of the group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
•	 t h e	g r o u p	F i n a n c i a l	S t a t e m e n t s	h a v e	b e e n	p r o p e r l y	p r e p a r e d	i n	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	 t h e	p a r e n t	co m p a n y	F i n a n c i a l	St a t e m e n t s	h a v e	b e e n	p r o p e r l y	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and 
•	 t h e	F i n a n c i a l	S t a t e m e n t s	h a v e	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	i n	a cco r d a n c e	w i t h	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 t h e	p a r t	o f	t h e	d i r e c t o r s ’	R e m u n e r a t i o n	R e p o r t	t o	b e	a u d i t e d	h a s	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Financial Statements; and
•	 i n f o r m a t i o n	g i v e n	i n	t h e	C o r p o r a t e	G o v e r n a n c e	S t a t e m e n t	s et	 
out on pages 32 to 37 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial 
Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
•	 a d e q u a t e	a cco u n t i n g	r e co r d s	h a v e	n o t	b e e n	k e p t	by	t h e	p a r e n t	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 t h e	p a r e n t	co m p a n y	F i n a n c i a l	S t a t e m e n t s	a n d	t h e	p a r t	o f	t h e	
directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 c e r t a i n	d i s cl o s u r e s	o f	d i r e c t o r s ’	r e m u n e r a t i o n	s p e c i fi e d	by	l a w	a r e	
not made; or
•	 w e	h a v e	n o t	r e c e i v e d	a l l	t h e	i n f o r m a t i o n	a n d	e x p l a n a t i o n s	w e	
require for our audit; or
•	 a	C o r p o r a t e	G o v e r n a n c e	s t a t e m e n t	h a s	n o t	b e e n	p r e p a r e d	by	t h e	
company
 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 t h e	d i r e c t o r s ’	s t a t e m e n t ,	s et	o u t	o n	p a g e	2 3 ,	i n	r e l a t i o n	t o	g o i n g	
concern;
•	 t h e	p a r t	o f	t h e	C o r p o r a t e	G o v e r n a n c e	s t a t e m e n t	o n	p a g e s	3 2	t o	 
37 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review 
and
•	 c e r t a i n	e l e m e n t s	o f	t h e	r e p o r t	t o	s h a r e h o l d e r s	by	t h e	B o a r d	o n	
directors’ remuneration.
G Neale 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
9 March 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the members of Headlam Group plc 54     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
  2011 2010
 Note £000 £000
Revenue 2 569,795 535,690
Cost of sales  (394,056) (370,731)
Gross profit  175,739 164,959
   
Distribution expenses  (110,623) (102,016)
Administrative expenses  (37 ,064) (36,877)
Operating profit 2 28,052 26,066
   
Finance income 6 4,520 4,637
Finance expenses 6 (4,984) (5,697)
Net finance costs  (464) (1,060)
Profit before tax 3 27 ,588 25,006
Taxation 7 (7 ,184) (7 ,127)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders  20,404 17 ,879
   
Dividend paid per share 22 12.40p 1 1.00p
   
Earnings per share   
Basic 9 24.6p 21.5p
Diluted 9 24.4p 21.5p
All group operations during the financial years were continuing operations.
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     55
a ccounts
 Group
  2011 2010
 Note £000 £000
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders  20,404 17 ,879
   
Other comprehensive income:   
Foreign exchange translation differences arising on translation of overseas operations  (234) 1,094
Actuarial losses and gains on defined benefit plans 20 (7 ,839) 356
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  – (1)
Transfers to profit or loss on cash flow hedges  – 225
Income tax on other comprehensive income  1,855 9
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year  (6,218) 1,683
Total comprehensive income attributable to the equity shareholders for the year  14,186 19,562
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2011 56     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets     
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 10 94,201 97 ,215 76,551 77 ,968
Intangible assets 1 1 13,210 13,210 – –
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 – – 87 ,341 86,703
Deferred tax assets 13 962 896 381 213
  108,373 1 1 1,321 164,273 164,884
Current assets     
Inventories 14 114,196 105,694 – –
Trade and other receivables 15 111,656 102,240 14,951 27 ,924
Income tax receivable 8 – – 221 –
Cash and cash equivalents 16 41,494 44,758 23,921 23,369
Assets held for sale 17 362 362 362 362
  267 ,708 253,054 39,455 51,655
Total assets  376,081 364,375 203,728 216,539
Liabilities     
Current liabilities     
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 (30,219) (225) (30,000) –
Trade and other payables 19 (154,490) (149,476) (36,326) (38,552)
Employee benefits 20 (2,669) (2,586) (2,669) (2,586)
Income tax payable 8 (6,678) (4,201) – (1,485)
  (194,056) (156,488) (68,995) (42,623)
Non-current liabilities     
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 (3,691) (34,01 1) – (30,000)
Employee benefits 20 (11,789) (10,138) (9,866) (8,745)
  (15,480) (44,149) (9,866) (38,745)
Total liabilities  (209,536) (200,637) (78,861) (81,368)
Net assets  166,545 163,738 124,867 135,171
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     
Share capital 22 4,268 4,268 4,268 4,268
Share premium  53,512 53,512 53,512 53,512
Other reserves 22 (7 ,013) (6,571) 7 ,408 7 ,616
Retained earnings  115,778 1 12,529 59,679 69,775
Total equity  166,545 163,738 124,867 135,171
These Financial Statements were approved by the board of directors on 9 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tony Brewer  Steve Wilson
Director  Director
Company Number: 460129
Statements of Financial Position
at 31 December 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     57
a ccounts
   Capital  Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Translation hedging Treasury Retained Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 
 1 January 2010 4,268 53,512 88 5,297 (224) (13,057) 102,745 152,629
Profit for the year 
 attributable to the 
 equity shareholders – – – – – – 17 ,879 17 ,879
Other comprehensive 
 income – – – 1,094 224 – 365 1,683
Total comprehensive 
 income for the year – – – 1,094 224 – 18,244 19,562
Transactions with equity 
 shareholders, recorded 
 directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 448 448
Share options exercised 
 by employees – – – – – 7 – 7
Deferred tax on share 
 options  – – – – – – 224 224
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (9,132) (9,132)
Total contributions by and 
 distributions to equity 
 shareholders – – – – – 7 (8,460) (8,453)
Balance at 
 31 December 2010 4,268 53,512 88 6,391 – (13,050) 1 12,529 163,738
Balance at 
 1 January 201 1 4,268 53,512 88 6,391 – (13,050) 112,529 163,738
Profit for the year 
 attributable to the 
 equity shareholders – – – – – – 20,404 20,404
Other comprehensive 
 income – – – (234) – – (5,984) (6,218)
Total comprehensive 
 income for the year – – – (234) – – 14,420 14,186
Transactions with equity 
 shareholders, recorded 
 directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 871 871
Consideration for 
 purchase of own shares – – – – – (1,575) – (1,575)
Share options exercised 
 by employees – – – – – 1,367 (1,357) 10
Deferred tax on share 
 options – – – – – – (390) (390)
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (10,295) (10,295)
Total contributions by and 
 distributions to equity 
 shareholders – – – – – (208) (11,171) (11,379)
Balance at 
 31 December 2011 4,268 53,512 88 6,157 – (13,258) 115,778 166,545
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011 58     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
   Capital  Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Special hedging Treasury Retained Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 
 1 January 2010 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (224) (13,057) 59,875 125,040
Profit for the year 
 attributable to the 
 equity shareholders – – – – – – 17 ,901 17 ,901
Other comprehensive 
 income – – – – 224 – 683 907
Total comprehensive 
 income for the year – – – – 224 – 18,584 18,808
Transactions with equity 
 shareholders, recorded 
 directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 448 448
Share options exercised 
 by employees – – – – – 7 – 7
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (9,132) (9,132)
Total contributions by and 
 distributions to equity 
 shareholders – – – – – 7 (8,684) (8,677)
Balance at 
 31 December 2010 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (13,050) 69,775 135,171
Balance at 
1 January 201 1 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (13,050) 69,775 135,171
Profit for the year 
 attributable to the 
 equity shareholders – – – – – – 6,419 6,419
Other comprehensive 
 income – – – – – – (5,577) (5,577)
Total comprehensive 
 income for the year – – – – – – 842 842
Transactions with equity 
 shareholders, recorded 
 directly in equity        
Share-based payments – – – – – – 871 871
Consideration for purchase 
 of own shares – – – – – (1,575) – (1,575)
Share options exercised 
 by employees – – – – – 1,367 (1,357) 10
Deferred tax on share 
 options – – – – – – (157) (157)
Dividends to equity holders – – – – – – (10,295) (10,295)
Total contributions by and 
 distributions to equity 
 shareholders – – – – – (208) (10,938) (11,146)
Balance at 
 31 December 2011 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (13,258) 59,679 124,867
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011 Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     59
a ccounts
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities     
Profit before tax for the year  27 ,588 25,006 2,428 4,534
Adjustments for:     
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment  4,883 5,519 1,471 1,936
Net settlement loss/(gain) on enhanced transfer value exercise  56 (176) 56 (176)
Finance income 6 (4,520) (4,637) (4,370) (4,402)
Finance expense 6 4,984 5,697 4,263 5,062
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment  (86) (314) – (222)
Share–based payments 20 871 448 233 47
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and other payables  33,776 31,543 4,083 6,779
Change in inventories  (8,700) (5,770) – –
Change in trade and other receivables  (9,764) (1,405) 392 (437)
Change in trade and other payables  5,544 6,947 8,708 (2,664)
Cash generated from the operations  20,856 31,315 13,183 3,678
Interest paid  (1,342) (1,344) (614) (731)
Tax (paid)/received  (3,380) (7 ,506) 1,330 890
Additional contributions to defined benefit plan  (2,781) (2,706) (2,781) (2,706)
Enhanced transfer value exercise payments  (3,302) (7 ,488) (3,302) (7 ,488)
Net cash flow from operating activities  10,051 12,271 7 ,816 (6,357)
Cash flows from investing activities     
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  110 3,167 – 2,142
Interest received  751 834 429 427
Dividends received  – – 4,221 14,526
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 (2,035) (6,995) (54) (5,717)
Net cash flow from investing activities  (1,174) (2,994) 4,596 1 1,378
Cash flows from financing activities     
Proceeds from the issue of treasury shares  10 7 10 7
Payment to acquire own shares  (1,575) – (1,575) –
Repayment of borrowings  (228) (866) – –
Dividends paid 22 (10,295) (9,132) (10,295) (9,132)
Net cash flow from financing activities  (12,088) (9,991) (11,860) (9,125)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (3,211) (714) 552 (4,104)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  44,758 44,979 23,369 27 ,473
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  (53) 493 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 41,494 44,758 23,921 23,369
The company’s profit before tax excludes dividends received from subsidiaries.
Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2011 60     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Reporting entity
Headlam Group plc (the “company”) is a company incorporated and 
domiciled in the UK.
Statement of compliance
Both the company’s Financial Statements and the group’s Financial 
Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRS”). On publishing the company’s 
Financial Statements here together with the group Financial Statements, 
the company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the 
Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement 
and related notes that form a part of these approved Financial 
Statements.
The company and group Financial Statements were authorised for 
issuance on 9 March 2012.
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the 
Financial Statements of the company and the Financial Statements  
of the group are set out below. These policies have been applied 
consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these 
accounting policies that have a significant effect on the Financial 
Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment 
in the next year are discussed below.
(a) Measurement convention
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is 
the group’s functional currency. All financial information presented in 
pounds sterling has been rounded to the nearest thousand.
The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on the 
historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial 
instruments and pension scheme assets, both of which are stated at 
fair value. Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of 
previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis. In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the 
Financial Statements the directors are required to consider whether the 
group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive’s Review on pages 12 to 17 . 
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on 
pages 20 to 23. In addition, note 23 to the Financial Statements 
includes the group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit 
risk and liquidity risk.
The group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through 
its banking facilities. As highlighted in note 27 to the Financial 
Statements, the group completed a refinancing of its existing facilities, 
which were due for renewal in July 2012, on 8 March 2012. The 
group’s new banking arrangements, which run to March 2015 with an 
option, in the lenders favour, to extend for a further year, increase the 
level of committed facilities from £30 million to £40 million, and 
maintain uncommitted facilities at £35 million, which are renewable 
on an annual basis. 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
(b) Use of accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted 
IFRSs requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during 
the reporting year. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, 
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that 
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Statement of Financial 
Position date that may give rise to a material adjustment to the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
as follows:
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses.
The group is committed to investing in new facilities where existing 
facilities fail to provide satisfactory customer service in a cost effective 
manner. When construction on a new facility commences, the existing 
facility is marketed for sale and this action can on occasions give rise 
to an adverse difference between carrying value and market value.  
At the Statement of Financial Position date, the assets have been 
reported at their carrying value. Market values are formally assessed 
for all properties on a triennial basis and compared with the carrying 
values. 
At the latest review, carried out at 31 December 2010, the 201 1 
carrying value of UK freehold and long leasehold land and buildings 
would have exceeded market value (on an existing use basis) by 
£9,403,000. The directors consider that the carrying value of the UK 
freehold and long leasehold land and buildings is supported by their 
ongoing value in use within the business. An impairment review has 
been undertaken on the portfolio each year and one property was 
impaired in 2010 by £466,000. No impairment was considered 
necessary in 201 1.
Notes to the Financial Statements  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     61
a ccounts
Goodwill impairment
The outcome of the group’s annual impairment test for goodwill is 
dependent on the forecast cash flows of each cash-generating unit 
together with key management assumptions including profit growth 
and discount rates. No impairment resulted from the annual 
impairment test for 201 1.
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised at the Statement of Financial 
Position date based on the assumption that there is a high expectation 
that the asset will be realised in due course. This assumption is 
dependent on the group’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable 
profits.
Employee benefits
The deficit relating to the group’s defined benefit plans is assessed 
annually in accordance with IAS 19 and after taking independent 
actuarial advice. The principle assumptions are set out in note 20.  
The amount of the deficit is dependent on plan asset and liability 
values and the actuarial assumptions used to determine the deficit. 
The assumptions include asset growth rates, pension and salary 
increases, price inflation, discount rate used to measure actuarial 
liabilities and mortality rates.
(c) Impact of newly adopted accounting standards
In the current year, the group has adopted the following new 
standards and interpretations. These were mandatory for the year 
ended 31 December 201 1.
•		 A m e n d m e n t s	t o	I AS	3 2	‘ C l a s s i fi c a t i o n	o f	R i g h t s	I s s u e s ’	–	r e q u i r e s	
that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the 
entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency 
are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights options or 
warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of 
its own equity instruments.
•		 I AS	2 4	‘ R e l a t e d	p a r t i e s	d i s cl o s u r e s	( r e v i s e d	2 0 0 9 ) ’	–	cl a r i fi e s	
disclosure requirements for government related entities and 
amends the definition of a related party.
•		 I F RI C	1 9	‘ E x t i n g u i s h i n g	F i n a n c i a l	L i a b i l i t i e s	w i t h	E q u i t y	I n s t r u m e n t s ’	
– clarifies the accounting treatment for when an entity renegotiates 
the terms of its debt, such that the liability is extinguished, in whole 
or in part, by the entity issuing its own equity instruments to the 
l e n d e r	( r e f e r r e d	t o	a s	a	‘ d e b t	f o r	e q u i t y	s w a p ’ ) .	I t	a d d r e s s e s	t h e	
accounting for such a transaction by the debtor only.
•		 A m e n d m e n t s	t o	I F RI C	1 4	–	P r e p a y m e n t s	o f	a	M i n i m u m	F u n d i n g	
Requirement: The amendment to IFRIC 14 removes unintended 
consequences of when an entity is subject to a minimum funding 
requirement (MFR) and makes an early payment of contributions to 
cover those requirements. The amendment results in prepayments 
of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an 
asset rather than an expense.
None of the above standards and interpretations have had any 
impact on profit, earnings per share or net assets in the year ended 
31 December 201 1.
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under 
the annual improvements project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the 
year ended 31 December 201 1, have been adopted in the year. 
None of these amendments have had a material impact on the 
group’s Financial Statements.
(d) IFRS not yet applied
The following amendment has been published, endorsed by the EU, 
and available for early adoption but has not yet been applied by the 
group in these Financial Statements:
•		 A m e n d m e n t s	t o	I F R S	7	D i s cl o s u r e s	–	T r a n s f e r s	o f	F i n a n c i a l	A s s et s :	
will require additional disclosures about transfers of financial 
assets, e.g. securitisations and should enable users to understand 
the possible effects of any risks that may remain with the transferor. 
The amendments also require additional disclosures if a 
disproportionate amount of transfer transactions are undertaken 
around the end of a reporting period.
The group has considered the impact of new standards and 
interpretations including the above amendment in respect of future 
periods on profit, earnings per share and net assets, none of which 
are expected to have a material impact.
Basis of consolidation
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company and 
its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the “group”. The 
company’s Financial Statements present information about the 
company as a separate entity and not about its group.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group. Control exists when 
the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently 
exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the group’s 
Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the 
date that control ceases. 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the group. 
 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses 
on transactions between group companies are eliminated in the 
group’s Financial Statements.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Statement of 
Financial Position date are translated at the foreign exchange rate  62     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation 
are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction.
Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the Statement of Financial Position 
date. 
The revenues, expenses and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated at an average rate for the period where this rate 
approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the 
transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign subsidiaries 
are taken directly to the translation reserve and reflected as a 
movement in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen 
after 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as 
a separate component of equity.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 23 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of 
the group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the group
Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial instruments issued by the group are treated as equity, i.e. 
forming part of shareholders’ funds, only to the extent that they meet 
the following two conditions:
(a) they include no contractual obligations upon the company, or 
group as the case may be, to deliver cash or other financial assets 
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another 
party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the 
company or group; and
(b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the company’s own 
equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the company’s own 
equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial 
assets for a fixed number or its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are 
classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified 
takes the legal form of the company’s own shares, the amounts 
presented in these Financial Statements for called up share capital and 
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as 
part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded 
directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments
The group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign 
currency and has held derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
interest rate risk exposures. At 31 December 201 1, the group only held 
derivative financial instruments in respect of foreign currency 
exposures. Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable 
transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when 
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at 
fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. 
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument 
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to 
the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is 
ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income 
statement. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then 
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the 
amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of 
the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised 
in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same period that 
the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. Those 
quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future 
cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and 
using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement 
date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market 
price at the Statement of Financial Position date, being the present 
value of the quoted forward price. The gain or loss on remeasurement 
to fair value of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed assets 
includes the cost of materials, direct labour and any other costs 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for  
its intended use.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     63
a ccounts
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis. The annual rates applicable are:
Freehold and long leasehold properties – 2%
Short leasehold properties – period of lease
Motor vehicles – 25%
Office and computer equipment – 10% - 33.3%
Warehouse and production equipment – 10% - 20%
Land is not depreciated. 
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and 
equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal 
with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are 
recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase 
method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred 
since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the 
cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but, tested annually for impairment, or more frequently when there is 
an indicator that the unit may be impaired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is 
included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount 
recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that 
only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was 
amortised. This is in accordance with IFRS 1.
Other intangibles
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible 
assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated at 
fair value at the date of acquisition less cumulative amortisation and 
impairment losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are 
indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill 
are systematically tested for impairment at each Statement of Financial 
Position date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they 
are available for use. The estimated useful lives of customer lists are 
deemed to be between 1 - 24 months. 
Non-current assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount 
will be recovered principally through sale rather than through 
continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly 
probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to 
the income statement. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent remeasurement.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses. Debts are 
provided for, the credit loss allowance, on specific receivables in full 
a s	s o o n	a s	t h ey	a r e	k n o w n	t o	b e	‘ b a d’	o r	i t	b e co m e s	a p p a r e n t	t h a t	
p a y m e n t	i s	‘ d o u b t f u l ’ .	
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure 
incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing 
location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Allowances for inventory losses are determined by reference to each 
individual product and are calculated by assessing the age and 
quantity of each individual product.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Statement of Financial 
Position at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of cash management of both the company and group are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose only of the Cash Flow Statement.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s assets other than inventories and 
deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each Statement of Financial 
Position date to determine whether there is any indication of 
impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable 
amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is estimated at each Statement 
of Financial Position date.
For the purposes of impairment testing assets are grouped together 
into the smallest group of assets that generates cash flows from 
continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from 
other groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of  
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 64     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the 
other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. 
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of assets, with the exception of the group’s 
receivables, is the greater of their fair value less cost to sell and value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for 
the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of the group’s receivables carried at 
amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate, i.e., the 
effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial 
assets. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is 
an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist and there 
had been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then are 
stated at amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less 
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an 
effective interest basis.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the group constructs qualifying 
assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the income 
statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs are charged to the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method.
Employee benefits
The company and the group operate both defined benefit and 
defined contribution plans, the assets of which are held in 
independent trustee administered funds. The pension cost is assessed 
in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary.
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. 
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair 
value of any plan assets is deducted. The liability discount rate is the 
yield at the Statement of Financial Position date using AA rated 
corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms 
of the group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified 
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the 
increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
average period until the benefits become vested. 
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the group’s 
obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in 
reserves and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the group, the asset 
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the 
plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The group operates a UK defined benefit pension plan and a defined 
benefit plan in Switzerland. In the UK as there is no contractual 
agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit 
liability between the participating subsidiaries and as such the full 
deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring 
employer. The participating subsidiary companies have recognised a 
cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a 
professionally qualified actuary.
Share-based payment transactions
The company and group operate various equity settled share option 
schemes under the approved and unapproved executive schemes and 
savings related schemes.
For executive share option schemes, the option price may not be less 
than the mid market value of the group’s shares at the time when the 
options were granted or the nominal value.
Further details of the share plans are given in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 38 to 48.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     65
a ccounts
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity over the period that 
the employees unconditionally become entitled to the award. The fair 
value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option 
valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that 
vest except where forfeiture is due only to market conditions such as 
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the 
company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an 
employee expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary 
undertaking together with the capital contribution received. In the 
financial statements of the company, the options granted are 
recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a 
corresponding increase in equity.
Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount 
of the consideration paid, net of any tax effects is recognised as a 
deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury 
shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When 
treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received 
is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or 
deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration, net of trade discounts and excludes intra-group sales 
and value added and similar taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the 
goods are transferred to the buyer (which is the date on which goods 
are received by the customer), the amount of revenue can be reliably 
measured and it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the group.
Lease payments
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the lease transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group. All 
other leases are treated as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included in property, plant and 
equipment at the lower of fair value at the date of acquisition or the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of 
outstanding finance leases is included in financial liabilities. The 
finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement 
at a constant period rate of charge on the outstanding obligations.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an 
integral part of the total lease expense.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on 
shares classified as liabilities, finance leases, interest receivable on 
funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and 
losses on hedging instruments as outlined in the accounting policy 
relating to derivative financial instruments and hedging described 
above.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend 
income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s 
right to receive payments is established.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension 
plans, less administration expenses of pension plans are recognised  
in financial income. The interest accruing on defined benefit pension 
plan liabilities are recognised in financial expenses.
Dividends
Interim and final dividends are recognised when they are paid or 
when approved by the members in a general meeting. Final dividends 
proposed by the board and unpaid at the end of the year are not 
recognised in the Financial Statements. 
Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in 
the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the 
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement 
of Financial Position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in 
respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax  
is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit,  
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent  
that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
Statement of Financial Position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. 66     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
2 SEGMENT REPORTING
The group has 50 operating segments in the UK and 5 operating segments in Continental Europe. Each segment represents an individual trading 
operation, and each operation is wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and distribution of floorcovering products. The operating results  
of each operation are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which is deemed to be the Group Chief Executive. Discrete 
financial information is available for each segment and used by the Group Chief Executive to assess performance and decide on resource 
allocation.
The operating segments have been aggregated to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics, with relevance to products and 
services, type and class of customer, methods of sale and distribution and the regulatory environment in which they operate. The group’s internal 
management structure and financial reporting systems differentiate the operating segments on the basis of the differing economic characteristics  
in the UK and Continental Europe and accordingly present these as two separate reportable segments. This distinction is embedded in the 
construction of operating reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive, the board and the executive management team and forms the basis  
for the presentation of operating segment information given below.
 UK Continental Europe Total
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue      
External revenues 466,968 432,815 102,827 102,875 569,795 535,690
Reportable segment operating profit 25,696 24,662 2,830 2,553 28,526 27 ,215
      
Reportable segment assets* 220,878 205,655 45,427 47 ,589 266,305 253,244
      
Reportable segment liabilities (136,358) (129,365) (18,132) (20,1 1 1) (154,490) (149,476)
During the year there are no inter-segment revenues for the reportable segments (2010: £nil).
*  Reportable segment assets have been restated for the year ended 31 December 2010 to allocate relevant cash and cash equivalents  
between the reportable segments.
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit, assets and liabilities and other material items:
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Profit for the year   
Total profit for reportable segments 28,526 27 ,215
Impairment of assets – (466)
Unallocated expense (474) (683)
Operating profit 28,052 26,066
Finance income 4,520 4,637
Finance expense (4,984) (5,697)
Profit before taxation 27 ,588 25,006
Taxation (7 ,184) (7 ,127)
Profit for the year 20,404 17 ,879
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     67
a ccounts
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Assets   
Total assets for reportable segments 266,305 253,244
Unallocated assets:   
  Properties, plant and equipment 84,531 86,504
  Deferred tax assets 962 896
  Assets held for sale 362 362
  Cash and cash equivalents 23,921 23,369
Total assets 376,081 364,375
Liabilities   
Total liabilities for reportable segments (154,490) (149,476)
Unallocated liabilities:   
  Employee benefits (14,458) (12,724)
  Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings (33,910) (34,236)
  Income tax payable (6,678) (4,201)
Total liabilities (209,536) (200,637)
   Reportable
  Continental segment  Consolidated
 UK Europe total Unallocated total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Other material items 2011      
Capital expenditure 1,358 593 1,951 84 2,035
Depreciation 2,240 798 3,038 1,845 4,883
Other material items 2010      
Capital expenditure 784 553 1,337 5,658 6,995
Depreciation 2,503 747 3,250 1,803 5,053
Impairment of assets – – – 466 466
In the UK the group’s freehold properties are held within Headlam Group plc and a rent is charged to the operating segments for the period  
of use. Therefore the operating reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive show all the UK properties as unallocated and the operating 
segments report a segment result that includes a property rent. This is reflected in the above disclosure.
Each segment is a continuing operation. 68     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
The Group Chief Executive, the board and the senior executive management team have access to information that provides details on revenue by 
principal product group for the two reportable segments, as set out in the following table:
Revenue by principal product group and geographic origin is summarised below:
 UK Continental Europe Total
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue      
Residential 320,290 297 ,606 50,047 51,992 370,337 349,598
Commercial 146,678 135,209 52,780 50,883 199,458 186,092
 466,968 432,815 102,827 102,875 569,795 535,690
3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX
The following are included in profit before tax:
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4,883 5,053
Impairment of assets – 466
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 86 314
Operating lease rentals  
  Plant and machinery 9,421 8,994
  Land and buildings 1,628 1,708
Auditor’s remuneration:
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Audit of these Financial Statements 64 62
Amounts received by the auditors and their associates in respect of:  
  Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 152 145
  Tax services 38 1 1
  All other services 7 10
 261 228
Amounts paid to the company’s auditor in respect of services to the company, other than the audit of the company’s Financial Statements, have  
not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     69
a ccounts
4 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of people employed, including directors, during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
 Number of employees
 Group
  2011 2010
By sector:  
  Floorcoverings  2,053 2,01 1
  Central operations  9 9
  2,062 2,020
By function:  
  Sales and distribution  1,896 1,859
  Administration  166 161
  2,062 2,020
The aggregate payroll costs were as follows:  
    £000 £000
Wages and salaries    66,755 62,734
Equity settled share based payment expense    871 448
Social security costs    8,965 8,160
Pension costs (note 20)    3,472 3,438
    80,063 74,780
5 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Directors emoluments 2,094 2,074
Equity settled share based payment expense 199 39
Further details of directors’ emoluments, share options and pension entitlement are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48. 70     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
6 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Interest income:  
  Bank interest 657 642
  Other 49 179
  Return on defined benefit plan assets 3,814 3,816
Finance income 4,520 4,637
Interest expense:  
  Bank loans, overdrafts and other financial expenses (1,188) (1,122)
  Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred from equity – (125)
  Interest on defined benefit plan obligation (3,796) (4,450)
Finance expenses (4,984) (5,697)
7 TAXATION
Recognised in the income statement
 
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Current tax expense:  
  Current year 6,026 3,756
  Adjustments for prior years (241) (697)
 5,785 3,059
Deferred tax expense:  
  Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,707 3,762
  Effect of change in UK tax rate (180) 40
  Adjustments for prior years (128) 266
 1,399 4,068
Total tax in income statement 7 ,184 7 ,127
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity  
Current tax on:  
  Income and expenses recognised directly in equity – –
  
Deferred tax on:  
  Share options (390) 224
Deferred tax on other comprehensive income:  
  Defined benefit plans 1,855 72
  Cash flow hedge – (63)
Total tax reported directly in reserves 1,465 233
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     71
a ccounts
7 TAXATION continued
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 23% over a period of 4 years from 201 1. 
The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% that was effective from 1 April 201 1, was substantively enacted on  
20 July 2010. 
On 23 March 201 1 the Chancellor announced further reductions in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 26% with effect from 1 April 201 1 
and a further reduction to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012. These changes became substantively enacted on 29 March 201 1 and 5 July 201 1 
respectively. These will reduce the future current tax charge accordingly. The effect of these rate reductions creates a reduction in the deferred tax 
asset which has been included in the figures above. The deferred tax asset at 31 December 201 1 has been calculated based on the rate of 
25% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Chancellor proposed changes to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax by one per cent per annum to 23 per cent by 1 April 2014, 
but these changes have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore are not included in the figures above. The overall effect of the further 
reductions from 25 per cent to 23 per cent, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 December 201 1 would be to further reduce the 
deferred tax asset by approximately £77 ,000.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 2011 2010
  % £000 % £000
Profit before tax   27 ,588  25,006
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate  26.5 7 ,309 28.0 7 ,001
Effect of change in UK tax rate  (0.5) (147) 0.2 40
Non-deductible expenses  1.5 419 2.5 635
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions  (0.1) (28) (0.5) (1 18)
Over provided in prior years  (1.4) (369) (1.7) (431)
Total tax in Income Statement  26.0 7 ,184 28.5 7 ,127
8 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
The group’s current tax liability of £6,678,000 (2010: £4,201,000) represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and prior 
year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable. The company’s current tax asset of £221,000 (2010: £1,485,000 liability) represents the 
amount of income tax receivable in respect of current and prior year periods which exceed any amounts payable.
   72     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Earnings  
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 20,404 17 ,879
  
 2011 2010
Number of shares  
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 85,363,743 85,363,743
Effect of shares held in treasury (2,423,159) (2,246,489)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 82,940,584 83,1 17 ,254
Effect of diluted potential ordinary shares:  
  Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 82,940,584 83,1 17 ,254
  Dilutive effect of share options 596,479 1 13,570
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 83,537 ,063 83,230,824
At 31 December 201 1, the company held 2,841,197 shares in treasury and these are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     73
a ccounts
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
 Land & Plant & Under
 buildings equipment construction Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2010 95,442 26,936 – 122,378
Additions 5,653 1,284 58 6,995
Disposals (755) (829) – (1,584)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 605 73 – 678
Transfer to assets held for sale (491) – – (491)
Balance at 31 December 2010 100,454 27 ,464 58 127 ,976
Balance at 1 January 201 1 100,454 27 ,464 58 127 ,976
Additions 31 1,950 54 2,035
Disposals – (1,633) – (1,633)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (127) (121) – (248)
Balance at 31 December 2011 100,358 27 ,660 112 128,130
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2010 1 1,785 14,063 – 25,848
Depreciation charge for the year 1,794 3,259 – 5,053
Asset impairment 466 – – 466
Disposals (224) (718) – (942)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 414 51 – 465
Transfer to assets held for sale (129) – – (129)
Balance at 31 December 2010 14,106 16,655 – 30,761
Balance at 1 January 201 1 14,106 16,655 – 30,761
Depreciation charge for the year 1,811 3,072 – 4,883
Disposals – (1,609) – (1,609)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (17) (89) – (106)
Balance at 31 December 2011 15,900 18,029 – 33,929
Net book value
At 1 January 2010 83,657 12,873 – 96,530
At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 201 1 86,348 10,809 58 97 ,215
At 31 December 2011 84,458 9,631 112 94,201
At 31 December 201 1 the cost less accumulated depreciation of long leasehold property held by the group was £8,512,000  
(2010: £8,693,000). 74     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued 
 Land & Plant & Under
 buildings equipment construction Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2010 83,01 1 601 – 83,612
Additions 5,653 6 58 5,717
Disposals (755) (1 1) – (766)
Transfer to assets held for sale (491) – – (491)
Balance at 31 December 2010 87 ,418 596 58 88,072
Balance at 1 January 201 1 87 ,418 596 58 88,072
Additions – – 54 54
Disposals – (305) – (305)
Balance at 31 December 2011 87 ,418 291 112 87 ,821
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2010 8,061 469 – 8,530
Depreciation charge for the year 1,431 39 – 1,470
Asset impairment 466 – – 466
Disposals (224) (9) – (233)
Transfer to assets held for sale (129) – – (129)
Balance at 31 December 2010 9,605 499 – 10,104
Balance at 1 January 201 1 9,605 499 – 10,104
Depreciation charge for the year 1,432 39 – 1,471
Disposals – (305) – (305)
Balance at 31 December 2011 11,037 233 – 11,270
Net book value
At 1 January 2010 74,950 132 – 75,082
At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 201 1 77 ,813 97 58 77 ,968
At 31 December 2011 76,381 58 112 76,551
At 31 December 201 1 the cost less accumulated depreciation of long leasehold property held by the company was £8,512,000  
(2010: £8,693,000).
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     75
a ccounts
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP
   Customer 
  Goodwill lists Total
  £000 £000 £000
Cost   
Balance at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010  13,210 4,142 17 ,352
Balance at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011  13,210 4,142 17 ,352
Amortisation   
Balance at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010  – 4,142 4,142
Balance at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011  – 4,142 4,142
Net book value   
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010  13,210 – 13,210
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011  13,210 – 13,210
Cumulative impairment losses recognised in relation to goodwill is £nil (2010: £nil).
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill (“CGU”)
Goodwill is attributed to the businesses identified below for the purpose of testing impairment. These businesses are the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored and represent operating segments.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each CGU are as follows:
 Reported 2011 2010 
 Segment £000 £000
Joseph, Hamilton & Seaton UK 4,348 4,348
Crucial Trading UK 1,369 1,369
Belcolor AG Continental Europe 3,342 3,342
LMS SA Continental Europe 3,197 3,197
Other UK 954 954
  13,210 13,210 76     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP continued
Impairment
Each year, or whenever events or a change in the economic environment or performance indicates a risk of impairment, the group reviews the 
value of goodwill balances allocated to its cash generating units. In the absence of any identified impairment risks, tests are performed based on 
internal valuations of each CGU.
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or CGU to their recoverable amount. The recoverable amount 
represents the higher of the CGU’s fair value less the cost to sell and value in use. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, 
an impairment results. During the year, all goodwill was tested for impairment, with no impairment charge resulting.
Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU on a basis consistent with 2010, 
and applying the following key assumptions.
Key assumptions
Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the approved 2012 business plan. For the purpose of 
impairment testing the cash flows were assumed to grow into perpetuity at a rate of 2.5% beyond the 2012 business plan.
The main assumptions within the operating cash flows used for 2012 include the achievement of future sales volumes and prices for all key 
product lines, control of purchase prices, achievement of budgeted operating costs and no significant adverse foreign exchange rate movements. 
These assumptions have been reviewed in light of the current economic environment.
The directors have estimated the discount rate by reference to an industry average weighted average cost of capital. This has been adjusted to 
include an appropriate risk factor to reflect current economic circumstances and the risk profile of the CGU’s. A pre tax weighted average cost of 
capital of 12.2% (2010: 13.2%) has been used for impairment testing, adjusted to 13.2% (2010: 14.2%) for Continental Europe to reflect the 
differing risk profile of that segment. The pre tax discount rate has been applied to the pre tax cash flows. 
The CGU’s in the UK have similar characteristics, and risk profiles, and therefore a single discount rate has been applied to each UK CGU. 
Similarly, the directors view the CGU’s in Continental Europe as having consistent risk profiles and therefore a single risk factor has been applied. 
The CGU’s in Continental Europe operate under a different regulatory environment and this is therefore reflected in the risk factor used to 
determine the discount rates in the UK and Continental Europe.
Sensitivity analysis
The two key assumptions made by the directors are the discount rate used and the growth rate beyond the business plan. Sensitivity analysis has 
been carried out by reference to both of these assumptions and neither a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 1% reduction in the growth rate 
would result in any impairment. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     77
a ccounts
12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Summary information on investments in subsidiary undertakings is as follows:
 £000
Cost 
Balance at 1 January 2010 88,552
Disposals during the year (2,250)
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 401
Balance at 31 December 2010 86,703
Balance at 1 January 201 1 86,703
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 638
Balance at 31 December 2011 87 ,341
Impairment 
Balance at 1 January 2010  2,160
Disposals during the year (2,160)
Balance at 31 December 2010 –
Balance at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011  –
Carrying value 
At 1 January 2010  86,392
At 31 December 2010 86,703
At 31 December 2011 87 ,341
Disposals during the year ended 31 December 2010 relate to the striking-off and liquidation of non-trading subsidiaries.
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 104. 78     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES - GROUP
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (3,198) (3,683) (3,198) (3,683)
Intangible assets – – (206) (223) (206) (223)
Employee benefits 3,793 3,891 – – 3,793 3,891
Other items 573 91 1 – – 573 91 1
Tax assets/(liabilities) 4,366 4,802 (3,404) (3,906) 962 896
Set-off of tax (3,404) (3,906) 3,404 3,906 – –
 962 896 – – 962 896
      
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
 2011 in income in equity 2011
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (3,683) 485 – (3,198)
Intangible assets (223) 17 – (206)
Employee benefits 3,891 (1,563) 1,465 3,793
Other items 911 (338) – 573
 896 (1,399) 1,465 962
    
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
 2010 in income in equity 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (3,976) 293 – (3,683)
Intangible assets (189) (34) – (223)
Employee benefits 6,350 (2,531) 72 3,891
Other items 2,546 (1,796) 161 91 1
 4,731 (4,068) 233 896
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the Statement of Financial Position date the group has unused capital losses of £10,380,000 (2010: £10,379,000) available for offset 
against future chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the directors do not anticipate incurring 
significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
    
    
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     79
a ccounts
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – COMPANY
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (2,962) (3,271) (2,962) (3,271)
Employee benefits 3,086 3,217 – – 3,086 3,217
Other items 257 267 – – 257 267
Tax assets/(liabilities) 3,343 3,484 (2,962) (3,271) 381 213
Set-off of tax (2,962) (3,271) 2,962 3,271 – –
 381 213 – – 381 213
      
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
 2011 in income in equity 2011
   £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment   (3,271) 309 – (2,962)
Employee benefits   3,217 (1,694) 1,563 3,086
Other items   267 (10) – 257
   213 (1,395) 1,563 381
    
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
 2010 in income in equity 2010
   £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment   (3,348) 77 – (3,271)
Employee benefits   6,067 (2,788) (62) 3,217
Cash flow hedge   63 – (63) –
Other items   987 (720) – 267
   3,769 (3,431) (125) 213
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the Statement of Financial Position date the company has unused capital losses of £10,380,000 (2010: £10,379,000) available for offset 
against future chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the directors do not anticipate incurring 
significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
    
     80     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
14 INVENTORIES
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Finished goods and goods held for resale 114,196 105,694 – –
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Material cost 391,345 366,782 – –
Processing cost 2,711 3,949 – –
 394,056 370,731 – –-
15 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 87 ,848 78,878 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 4,089 4,132 59 30
Other receivables 19,569 19,1 19 180 612
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings – – 14,712 27 ,282
Derivative assets used for economic hedging:    
  Other derivatives at fair value 150 1 1 1 – –
 111,656 102,240 14,951 27 ,924
£2,635,000 (2010: £2,160,000) was recognised as an impairment loss in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of trade receivables. 
The impairment loss is attributable to the reportable segments as follows:
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
UK 2,324 1,859
Continental Europe 311 301
 2,635 2,160
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     81
a ccounts
16 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents per Statement of Financial Position 41,494 44,758 23,921 23,369
17 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets classified as held for sale:    
 Property, plant and equipment 362 362 362 362
At 31 December 2010 the company held a freehold property in Bishop Auckland, UK that was being actively marketed for sale and is available 
for immediate disposal. This property was due to be disposed of during 201 1 but the company now expects this to be early 2012.
The Bishop Auckland property forms part of the properties, plant and equipment reported under unallocated assets in note 2 as it is primarily  
a group activity to hold and maintain the properties.
18 OTHER INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the group’s and company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more  
information about the group’s and company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 23.
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loan 30,219 225 30,000 –
 30,219 225 30,000 –
Non-current liabilities    
Interest bearing loans 3,691 34,01 1 – 30,000
 3,691 34,01 1 – 30,000
 
Included within the interest-bearing loans is an amount directly attributable to borrowing costs of £nil (2010: £nil). 82     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
18 OTHER INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
The group has undrawn borrowing facilities expiring in one year or less which, at 31 December 201 1, amounted to £43,521,000 (2010: 
£45,418,000). The facility conditions for drawdown had been met during the period. The borrowing is unsecured and there is a cross guarantee 
in place between the company and its UK subsidiaries. There is a downstream guarantee from the company in relation to its borrowing facility in 
the Netherlands.
The undrawn borrowing facilities are as follows:
 Interest  Interest
 rate 2011 rate 2010
 % £000 % £000
UK 1.94 35,000 2.28 35,000
Netherlands 2.39 1,253 2.1 1 1,285
France 1.30 3,759 1.72 5,570
Switzerland 1.40 3,509 1.40 3,563
  43,521  45,418
All the borrowing facilities above bear interest at floating rates. The Swiss facility may be drawn as an overdraft or fixed rate loan with different 
rates depending on the term and amount.
19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables 114,077 1 14,225 141 104
Taxation and social security 13,646 1 1,1 1 1 1,791 1,825
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 26,767 24,140 3,621 3,565
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 30,773 33,058
 154,490 149,476 36,326 38,552
Included within non-trade payables and accrued expenses is an amount of £37 ,000 for accrued interest on unsecured bank loans  
(2010: £31,000).
The group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 23.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     83
a ccounts
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
During the year, the group operated a UK and a Swiss defined benefit plan and defined contribution plans in the UK, France and the 
Netherlands. The Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme is the principal defined benefit plan which provides benefits to UK 
employees that have been admitted into the scheme. The scheme is self-administered and its assets are held independently of the company’s 
finances. The scheme is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the company at rates advised by 
professionally qualified actuaries. The latest actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 201 1 using the attained age method. The main 
annual rate assumptions used by the actuary were, increase in salaries 4.9%, increase of pensions in payment 3.4%, discount rate before 
retirement 6.4%, discount rate after retirement 4.65% and inflation 3.4%. Assets were taken at their audited market value at the valuation date. 
This valuation also used revised mortality assumptions. These revised assumptions have been derived to take account of the characteristics of plan 
members and include a greater allowance for future increases in longevity compared with the assumptions previously adopted.
During 2010, the UK Government announced a move to adopting Consumer Price Inflation (“CPI”) rather than Retail Price Inflation (“RPI”) as the 
basis for inflation assumptions underpinning retirement benefit obligations. The directors have considered this change and associated guidance. 
Having taken advice, the company has determined that RPI remains the appropriate basis for measuring its obligations, such that the change 
announced has had no impact on the group’s retirement benefit obligations.
Included within the total staff costs, as disclosed in note 4, are costs relating to the group’s defined contribution plans. The pension cost for the 
year represents contributions payable by the group to the plans and amounted to £1,973,000 (2010: £1,848,000). Contributions amounting 
to £133,000 (2010: £125,000) in respect of December 201 1 payroll were paid in January 2012.
The total group cost of operating the plans during the year was £3,472,000 (2010: £3,438,000) and, at 31 December 201 1, there was an 
amount of £326,000 (2010: £366,000) owed to the plans, being employer and employee contributions due for December 201 1, which was 
paid in January 2012.
In the UK there is no contractual agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit liability between the participating 
subsidiaries and as such the full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring employer. The participating subsidiary companies 
have recognised a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a professionally qualified actuary. The company recognises 
a cost equal to its contributions payable for the period net of amounts recharged in relation to the group deficit to the participating subsidiary 
companies.
During the year, the group completed the enhanced transfer value exercise for deferred members that commenced in 2010 as part of its ongoing 
strategy to reduce the Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme liability. The amounts recognised in the 201 1 Financial Statements in 
respect of this exercise are set out below:
 Income
 Statement Cash flow
 £000 £000
Enhanced transfer value contribution made to UK scheme – 3,246
Enhanced transfer value lump sum payments made direct to members (including associated tax and social security costs) (56) 56
Effect of enhanced transfer value exercise (56) 3,302 84     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (84,923) (80,889) (74,737) (71,713)
Fair value of plan assets 70,692 68,451 62,202 60,382
Net obligations (14,231) (12,438) (12,535) (1 1,331)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations (14,231) (12,438) (12,535) (1 1,331)
Other long-term employee benefits (227) (286) – –
Total employee benefits (14,458) (12,724) (12,535) (1 1,331)
Analysed as:    
  Current liabilities (2,669) (2,586) (2,669) (2,586)
  Non-current liabilities (11,789) (10,138) (9,866) (8,745)
Total employee benefits (14,458) (12,724) (12,535) (1 1,331)
Following the actuarial valuation of the Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme as at 31 March 2008 and the latest valuation as 
at 31 March 201 1, a recovery plan was agreed between the Trustees of the scheme and the company to fund the deficit. In accordance with 
the recovery plan, payments were made to the scheme during 201 1 of £2,579,000 which, in accordance with the recovery plan, increase to 
£2,662,000 in 2012. It was agreed that recovery payments, which commenced on 1 January 2009 and will cease on 31 December 2015, 
were to increase by 3.2% each year. The next actuarial valuation is due at 31 March 2014 and the opportunity will be used to reassess the 
recovery plan.
In addition to the recovery payments, company contributions as at the date of the last valuation have been fixed at 24.7% of pensionable 
salaries at that date, with no allowance made in respect of subsequent leavers. This represented an additional contribution amounting to 
£202,000 during 201 1 (2010: £207 ,000).
During 2012, the group and company expect to pay regular ongoing contributions of approximately £3,805,000 to the UK defined benefit  
plan of which £2,662,000 relates to the agreed recovery payments, the balance being estimated service costs. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     85
a ccounts
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 80,889 88,253 71,713 81,412
Current service cost 1,499 1,579 1,067 1,277
Interest cost 3,796 4,450 3,542 4,235
Actuarial losses 7 ,998 2,839 7 ,278 2,467
Benefits paid (9,727) (13,009) (9,084) (13,202)
Contributions by members 436 401 221 218
Past service costs – 1 1 – 1 1
Settlements – (4,705) – (4,705)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 32 1,070 – –
At 31 December 84,923 80,889 74,737 71,713
Movements in fair value of plan assets
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 68,451 65,803 60,382 59,583
Expected return on plan assets 3,814 3,816 3,524 3,556
Actuarial gains/(losses) 159 3,195 (19) 3,274
Contributions by employer:    
  Future service contributions 1,505 1,595 1,151 1,288
  Past service deficit contributions 2,579 2,499 2,579 2,499
  Additional past service deficit contributions 202 207 202 207
  Contributions for enhanced transfer values 3,246 2,959 3,246 2,959
Contributions by members 436 401 221 218
Benefits paid (9,727) (13,009) (9,084) (13,202)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 27 985 – –
At 31 December 70,692 68,451 62,202 60,382
Expense recognised in the income statement relating to defined benefit obligation (excluding transfer value exercise)
  Group
   2011 2010
   £000 £000
Current service cost   1,499 1,579
Past service cost   – 1 1
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation   3,796 4,450
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets   (3,814) (3,816)
Total   1,481 2,224 86     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
The (income)/expense recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement are:  
  
  Group
   2011 2010
   £000 £000
Administrative expenses/(income)   1,499 (3,1 15)
Net financing (income)/costs   (18) 634
   1,481 (2,481)
Actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
  Group
   2011 2010
   £000 £000
Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligation   (7 ,998) (2,839)
Actuarial gain on plan assets   159 3,195
   (7 ,839) 356
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004, the transition date to IFRS, are 
£23,268,000 (2010: £15,429,000). Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the company’s Statement of Comprehensive Income are 
£21,660,000 (2010: £14,363,000).
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities 13,349 36,517 11,626 34,879
Government debt 7 ,445 17 ,449 7 ,445 17 ,449
Corporate bonds 24,671 6,998 20,613 3,141
Annuities 4,775 4,587 4,775 4,587
Commodities 4,386 – 4,386 –
Hedge funds 7 ,751 – 7 ,751 –
Other 8,315 2,900 5,606 326
 70,692 68,451 62,202 60,382
Actual return on plan assets 4,343 7 ,665 3,505 6,830
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by 
weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     87
a ccounts
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Principal actuarial assumptions, expressed as weighted averages, are as follows:
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 % % % %
Discount rate 4.3 5.1 4.6 5.4
Future salary increases 4.3 4.7 4.6 5.1
Future pension increases 2.8 3.2 3.1 3.6
Inflation rate 2.8 3.3 3.1 3.6
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.2 5.7 5.6 6.0
Mortality table assumptions:    
  UK pre-retirement AC00 (Ultimate)  AC00 (Ultimate)  AC00 (Ultimate)  AC00 (Ultimate) 
 table table table table
 
  UK post-retirement – future-pensioners 103%(M)/110%(F)  103%(M)/1 10%(F)  103%(M)/110%(F)  103%(M)/1 10%(F) 
 of the PCA00  of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00
 tables with tables with tables with tables with 
 medium cohort  medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
 projections projections projections projections
 
  UK post-retirement – current pensioners 103%(M)/110%(F)  103%(M)/1 10%(F)  103%(M)/110%(F)  103%(M)/1 10%(F)  
 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 
 tables with tables with tables with tables with
 medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
 projections projections projections projections
  Swiss scheme EVK 2000 EVK 2000 – –
The mortality assumption implies the expected future lifetime from age 65 is as follows:
 
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-pensioner male 23.6 23.4 23.6 23.4
Pensioner male 22.1 21.5 22.1 21.5
Non-pensioner female 25.5 25.3 25.5 25.3
Pensioner female 23.9 23.4 23.9 23.4 88     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Statement of Financial Position
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (84,923) (80,889) (88,253) (69,441) (71,350)
Fair value of plan assets 70,692 68,451 65,803 55,139 60,308
Deficit (14,231) (12,438) (22,450) (14,302) (1 1,042)
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (74,737) (71,713) (81,412) (62,443) (66,953)
Fair value of plan assets 62,202 60,382 59,583 49,534 56,098
Deficit (12,535) (1 1,331) (21,829) (12,909) (10,855)
Experience adjustments
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities 1,289 (588) (1,787) 83 482
On plan assets 159 3,195 6,083 (1 1,798) 507
As a percentage of plan liabilities 1.5% (0.7%) (2.0%) 0.1% 0.7%
As a percentage of plan assets 0.2% 4.7% 9.2% (21.4%) 0.8%
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities 1,404 (522) (1,402) (24) (14)
On plan assets (19) 3,274 5,559 (10,785) 313
As a percentage of plan liabilities 1.9% (0.7%) (1.7%) (0.0%) (0.0%)
As a percentage of plan assets 0.0% 5.4% 9.3% (21.8%) 0.6%
During the year, the group operated an employment indemnity scheme in connection with a foreign subsidiary undertaking to provide for  
lump sum cash payments due to employees retiring on their normal retirement date. The present value of the retirement indemnity obligation  
at 31 December 201 1 is £227 ,000 (2010: £286,000).
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     89
a ccounts
21 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
Group and company
Executive directors and executive management currently participate in executive share option schemes. The option price may not be less than the 
greater of the mid-market value of the group’s shares at the time when the options were granted or the nominal value. Options granted under the 
1998 Inland Revenue approved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of their date of grant, subject to the 
movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Options granted under the 1998 unapproved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and seventh anniversaries of their date of grant. 
Awards are subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per annum respectively over the 
relevant period.
Additionally, the group operates a savings related share option scheme (“sharesave scheme”) which is open to employees subject to eligibility 
criteria determined by the directors prior to each option grant. The most recent grant was on 1 1 May 201 1 when employees with over one 
month’s service were invited to participate. 
The group also operates a 2008 HMRC approved scheme, a 2008 unapproved scheme, the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 
and the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008. Further details of these schemes and plans are given in the Remuneration Report on pages  
41 and 43. 90     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
21 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows, whereby all options are settled by physical delivery of shares:
 Number of instruments  Contractual
Grant date/employees entitled  2011 2010 Vesting conditions life of options
Approved 1998 scheme granted  40,404 40,404 Movement of the group’s basic  14/04/06 –
to key management 14 April 2003   earnings per share exceeding  14/04/13
   RPI over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme granted  1,242,864 1,242,864 Movement of the group’s basic  22/08/08 –
to key management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding RPI  22/08/12
   by 3%-5% pa over the relevant period
Approved 1998 scheme granted  57 ,136 57 ,136 Movement of the group’s basic  22/08/08 –
to key management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding that of  22/08/15
   RPI by 3% pa over the relevant period
Five year sharesave scheme granted  40,499 40,980 Continuous service 01/07 /1 1 –
to other employees 25 May 2006    01/01/12
Three year sharesave scheme granted  54,808 57 ,784 Continuous service 01/07 /1 1 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/12
Five year sharesave scheme granted  42,608 50,121 Continuous service 01/07 /13 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/14
Three year sharesave scheme granted  381,457 409,1 19 Continuous service 01/07 /12 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/13
Five year sharesave scheme granted  374,246 384,105 Continuous service 01/07 /14 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/15
Three year sharesave scheme granted  53,486 77 ,920 Continuous service 01/07 /13 –
to other employees 21 May 2010    01/01/14
Five year sharesave scheme granted  63,928 66,406 Continuous service 01/07 /15 –
to other employees 21 May 2010    01/01/16
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan  468,828 468,828 If the real earnings per share growth  08/10/13 –
2008 granted to key management   is over 3%pa – 50% vesting, over  08/10/20
8 October 2010*   6% - 100% vesting. TSR- if company 
   is ranked at median or above – 50%, 
   upper quartile – 100%
Three year sharesave scheme granted  116,966 – Continuous service 01/07 /14 –
to other employees 1 1 May 201 1    01/01/15 
Five year sharesave scheme granted  73,104 – Continuous service 01/07 /16 –
to other employees 1 1 May 201 1    01/01/17
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 436,346 – If the real earnings per share growth is  23/08/14 –
2008 granted to key management   over 3% pa – 50% vesting, over  23/08/21
23 August 201 1*   6% - 100% vesting.
   TSR- if company is ranked at median 
   or above – 50%, upper quartile – 100%
Total share options 3,446,680 2,895,667  
*Further details are provided on pages 41 and 42 of the Remuneration Report.
 
   
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     91
a ccounts
21 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued
 
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
 Weighted  Weighted
 average  average
 exercise Number of exercise Number of
 price options price options
 2011 2011 2010 2010
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 281.9 2,895,667 336.6 2,407 ,066
Exercised during the year 222.2 (4,406) 222.2 (3,044)
Granted during the year 79.0 642,588 63.5 627 ,736
Lapsed during the year 246.2 (87 ,169) 244.0 (136,091)
Outstanding at the end of the year 245.0 3,446,680 281.9 2,895,667
Exercisable at the end of the year 409.2 1,435,711 413.8 1,340,404
The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 304.7p, (2010: 281.2p).
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 215.0p to 420.0p and a weighted average contractual life  
of 2.7 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model for the sharesave scheme  
and the Monte Carlo option pricing model for the Co-Investment Plan.
It is expected that the options will be exercised as soon as they reach maturity. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the share options.
Details of share options granted during 201 1 are shown below:
  3 year 3 year 5 year
  Co-Investment Sharesave Sharesave
2011  Plan 2008 scheme scheme
Number of options  436,346 126,868 79,374
Option pricing model  Monte Carlo Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Fair value at measurement date:  –  
  No performance conditions  – 96.9p 109.7p
  Performance conditions EPS 80% 239.0p – –
 TSR 20% 156.0p – –
Share price at 31 December  255.0p 255.0p 255.0p
Exercise price  – 246.0p 246.0p
Expected volatility   40.0%pa 47 .8%pa 50.0%pa
Option life   3 years 3 years 5 years
Dividend yield  4.5%pa 4.8%pa 4.8%pa
Risk-free rate of interest  0.85%pa 1.5%pa 2.45%pa 92     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
21 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued
   
Details of share options granted during 2010 are shown below:
  3 year 3 year 5 year
  Co-Investment Sharesave Sharesave
2010  Plan 2008 scheme scheme
Number of options  468,828 86,307 72,601
Option pricing model  Monte Carlo Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Fair value at measurement date:    
  No performance conditions  – 93.1p 96.9p
  Performance conditions EPS 80% 282.0p – –
 TSR 20% 199.0p – –
Share price at 31 December  313.5p 313.5p 313.5p
Exercise price  – 251.0p 251.0p
Expected volatility   40.0%pa 45.7%pa 43.5%pa
Option life   3 years 3 years 5 years
Dividend yield  3.5%pa 5.1%pa 5.1%pa
Risk-free rate of interest   1.05%pa 1.3%pa 2.3%pa
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
 Group Company Subsidiaries
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Share options granted in 2006 
  under the SAYE 5 year scheme 15 35 – – 15 35
Share options granted in 2008 
  under the SAYE 3 year scheme 58 93 – – 58 93
Share options granted in 2008 
  under the SAYE 5 year scheme 63 63 – – 63 63
Share options granted in 2009 
  under the SAYE 3 year scheme 102 102 3 3 99 99
Share options granted in 2009 
  under the SAYE 5 year scheme 30 30 1 1 29 29
Share options granted in 2010 
  under the SAYE 3 year scheme 27 16 – – 27 16
Share options granted in 2010 
  under the SAYE 5 year scheme 14 9 – – 14 9
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 410 100 175 43 235 57
Share options granted in 201 1 
  under the SAYE 3 year scheme 26 – – – 26 –
Share options granted in 201 1 
  under the SAYE 5 year scheme 11 – 1 – 10 –
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 115 – 54 – 61 –
Total expense recognised 871 448 234 47 637 401
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     93
a ccounts
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital
  Ordinary shares
   2011 2010
   £000 £000
Number of shares  
On issue at 1 January and 31 December – fully paid   85,363,743 85,363,743
  
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
Ordinary shares of 5p each   4,268 4,268
   4,268 4,268
Shares classified as liabilities   – –
Shares classified in shareholders funds   4,268 4,268
   4,268 4,268
During the year the company purchased 600,000 shares with a nominal value of £30,000 representing 0.7% of the issued share capital, for a 
consideration that amounted to £1,575,000. These shares were not purchased under the buy-back authority but were obtained to crystallise the 
cost of satisfying potential awards under the employee share plan arrangements. These shares are held as treasury shares. 
At 31 December 201 1, there were 2,841,197 (2010: 2,245,603) shares held in treasury. Dividends are not payable on these shares and they 
are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share. The shares held in treasury represent 3.3% of the issued share capital with a nominal 
value of £142,060.
In the period from 31 December 201 1 to 9 March 2012 no shares have been purchased by the company.
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings 
of the company.
Dividends
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Interim dividend for 2010 of 3.83p paid 4 January 201 1 3,180 –
Final dividend for 2010 of 8.57p paid 1 July 201 1 7 ,115 –
Interim dividend for 2009 of 3.70p paid 2 January 2010 – 3,072
Final dividend for 2009 of 7 .30p paid 1 July 2010 – 6,060
 10,295 9,132
The final proposed dividend of 9.85p per share (2010: 8.57p per share) will not be provided for until authorised by shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Interim dividends of 4.30p per share (2010: 3.83p per share) are provided for when the dividend is paid. 94     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued
The total value of dividends proposed but not recognised at 31 December 201 1 is £1 1,663,000 (2010: £10,294,000).
Reserves
Other reserves
Other reserves as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position comprise the capital redemption reserve, translation reserve, cash flow hedging 
reserve and treasury reserve. For the company this also includes a special reserve.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and cancelled during 2007 .
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Treasury Reserve
The treasury reserve compromises the cost of the company’s shares held by the group.
Special Reserve
The special reserve arose on the issuance of shares in connection with acquisitions made by the company in earlier years. 
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The main financial risks arising in the normal course of the group’s business are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks arising from interest rate 
risk and foreign currency risk. This note presents information about the group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for measuring and managing risks and the group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout 
these Financial Statements.
Credit risk and credit quality 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations 
and arises principally from the group’s trade receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset and as at the Statement of Financial Position 
date, in the directors’ opinion there were no significant concentrations of credit risk likely to cause financial loss to the group. 
The group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all 
new customers requiring credit and these are frequently reviewed by management to limit exposure. Businesses must obtain central approval from 
executive directors or senior executive management for credit limits in excess of £10,000. The group does not require collateral in respect of 
financial assets.
The credit control procedures described above, coupled with the diversified nature of the group’s trade receivables, lead the directors to believe 
that there is limited credit risk exposure and that the credit quality of these assets is robust.
Other receivables comprise amounts due to the group which historically have been received within 3 months of the year end. The directors have 
considered the inherent risk profile of other receivables at the year end and are of the view that this historical experience will prevail for the 
foreseeable future and accordingly consider the credit quality of these assets to be robust.
Cash and cash equivalents represent deposits with reputable financial institutions in the UK and Continental Europe. Notwithstanding the 
deteriorating economic circumstances during 2008 and 2009 and the consequential impact on the financial services sector, the directors 
consider the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents to be robust.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     95
a ccounts
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The carrying amount of financial assets at the Statement of Financial Position date was:
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables (note 15) 107 ,567 98,108 14,892 27 ,894
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16) 41,494 44,758 23,921 23,369
 149,061 142,866 38,813 51,263
The fair values of the above financial assets at both 31 December 201 1 and 2010, are deemed to approximate to carrying value due to the short 
term maturity of the instruments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the Statement of Financial Position date by geographic region was:
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
UK 74,597 64,944 – –
Continental Europe 13,251 13,934 – –
 87 ,848 78,878 – –
The ageing of trade receivables at the Statement of Financial Position date was:
 2011 2010
 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Not past due 81,191 (230) 74,808 –
Past due 0-30 days 4,428 (306) 3,313 (554)
Past due 31-120 days 5,260 (2,495) 3,684 (2,373)
 90,879 (3,031) 81,805 (2,927)
All other receivables and derivative financial assets are not past due (2010: not past due).
The company had trade receivables of £nil (2010:£nil). 96     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2,927 2,801 – –
Amounts provided 2,635 2,160 – –
Amounts utilised (2,510) (2,031) – –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (21) (3) – –
Balance at 31 December 3,031 2,927 – –
Based on historic default rates, the group believes that no general impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables, however, 
the group provides fully for specific debts when required. During the year the group’s impairment loss as a percentage of revenue amounted to 
0.46% (2010: 0.40%).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach to managing liquidity 
is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with 
abnormal market conditions. As at 31 December 201 1 cash and cash equivalents covered the amounts of borrowings maturing in the next twelve 
months with a net positive liquidity of £1 1,275,000 (2010: £44,533,000). Details of the total facilities that the group has access to are given in 
note 18.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
 Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5 More than
31 December 2011 amount cash flows or less years years 5 years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities      
Unsecured bank loans 33,910 (34,924) (30,571) (334) (962) (3,057)
Trade and other payables 140,844 (140,844) (140,844) – – –
 174,754 (175,768) (171,415) (334) (962) (3,057)
 Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5 More than
31 December 2010 amount cash flows or less years years 5 years
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities      
Unsecured bank loans 34,236 (35,623) (729) (30,527) (1,256) (3,1 1 1)
Trade and other payables 138,365 (138,365) (138,365) – – –
 172,601 (173,988) (139,094) (30,527) (1,256) (3,1 1 1)
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     97
a ccounts
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
  Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5
31 December 2011  amount cash flows or less years years
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans  30,000 (30,230) (30,230) – –
Trade and other payables  34,535 (34,535) (34,535) – –
  64,535 (64,765) (64,765) – –
  Carrying Contractual 1 year 1-2 2-5
31 December 2010  amount cash flows or less years years
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans  30,000 (30,587) (391) (30,196) –
Trade and other payables  36,727 (36,727) (36,727) – –
  66,727 (67 ,314) (37 ,1 18) (30,196) –
     
The value of the group’s financial liabilities as detailed above at 31 December 201 1 and 2010 were not materially different to the carrying 
value. Fair values were calculated using market rates, where available. Where market values are not available, fair values have been estimated 
by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the 
exchange rate prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position date. 98     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
The table below sets out the group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 201 1 and 2010.
  Other 
  derivatives  Total
 Available at fair Amortised carrying
 for sale value cost value
31 December 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 41,494 – – 41,494
Borrowings due within one year – – (30,219) (30,219)
Borrowings due after one year – – (3,691) (3,691)
Trade payables – – (114,077) (114,077)
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses – – (26,767) (26,767)
Trade receivables – – 87 ,848 87 ,848
Other receivables – – 19,569 19,569
Derivative assets – 150 – 150
 41,494 150 (67 ,337) (25,693)
  Other 
  derivatives  Total
 Available at fair Amortised carrying
 for sale value cost value
31 December 2010 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 44,758 – – 44,758
Borrowings due within one year – – (225) (225)
Borrowings due after one year – – (34,01 1) (34,01 1)
Trade payables – – (1 14,225) (1 14,225)
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses – – (24,140) (24,140)
Trade receivables – – 78,878 78,878
Other receivables – – 19,1 19 19,1 19
Derivative assets – 1 1 1 – 1 1 1
 44,758 1 1 1 (74,604) (29,735)
Under IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The group 
does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising 
from underlying business activities.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     99
a ccounts
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest rate risk
The company and group are exposed to interest rate fluctuations on their borrowings and cash deposits. Borrowings are principally held in 
sterling and euros at both fixed and floating rates, deposits are in sterling, euros and Swiss francs at floating rates. 
Floating rate borrowings are linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate and Euribor Over Night Index Average. The group adopts a policy  
of reviewing its floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise the effect on the group’s income statement is manageable. In accordance 
with this policy, and in order to manage it’s exposure to UK interest rates, the group entered into two interest rate swaps in 2008 to fix  
£30 million of its sterling denominated borrowings. The first interest rate swap matured in October 2009 and the second matured in April 2010. 
These interest rate swaps were designated as a hedging instrument and accounted for as a cash flow hedge in accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 39.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
 Group Company
 Carrying amount Carrying amount
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Variable rate instruments    
Financial assets 41,494 44,758 23,921 23,369
Financial liabilities (33,910) (34,236) (30,000) (30,000)
 7 ,584 10,522 (6,079) (6,631)
There were no fixed rate instruments held by the group at 31 December 201 1 (2010: £nil).
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in the interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis is 
performed on the same basis for 2010.
 Group Company
 Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss Equity
 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp
 increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
31 December 2011        
Variable rate instruments 76 (76) – – (61) 61 – –
        
31 December 2010        
Variable rate instruments 105 (105) – – (66) 66 – – 100     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Foreign currency risk
The group and company are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates arising from transaction currency cash flows and the translation 
of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily the euro, Swiss franc and US dollar.
The group and company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge their foreign currency transactional risk. A future foreign currency contract 
would be entered into where there was a known requirement for the currency due to planned imports that are not invoiced in the functional 
currency of the acquiring company. These forward exchange contracts would have a maturity of less than one year after the Statement of 
Financial Position date. The group also enters into foreign currency contracts at spot rate where the amounts are not frequent or material.  
Gains and losses on currency contracts recognised as an asset as at 31 December 201 1 amounted to £150,000 (2010: asset £1 1 1,000).
For the twelve month period to 31 December 201 1, 10.1% (2010: 9.8%) of the group’s operating profit was derived from overseas subsidiaries 
and at 31 December 201 1, 24.4% (2010: 23.7%) of the group’s net operating assets related to overseas subsidiary operations. Hedge 
accounting, following the adoption of IFRS, has not been applied to these operations.
The group and company do not use derivatives other than as described above.
The group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows:
 Group Company
 Euro Other  Euro Other
 amount amount Total amount amount Total
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables 86 143 229 77 17 94
Cash and cash equivalents 214 579 793 16 1 17
Trade and other payables (1,165) (1,412) (2,577) – – –
 (865) (690) (1,555) 93 18 111
 Group Company
 Euro Other  Euro Other
 amount amount Total amount amount Total
2010 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables 178 180 358 82 17 99
Cash and cash equivalents 635 662 1,297 85 1 86
Trade and other payables (1,340) (889) (2,229) – – –
 (527) (47) (574) 167 18 185
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     101
a ccounts
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 percent weakening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below, there is no equity effect. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.  
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2010.
 Group Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Euro (86) (53) 9 17
Other (69) (5) 2 2
A 10 percent strengthening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above 
currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Fair values hierarchy
The financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised according to their valuation method. The different levels have been defined below:
•		 L e v e l	1 :	q u o t e d	p r i c e s	( u n a d j u s t e d )	i n	a c t i v e	m a r k et s	f o r	i d e n t i c a l	a s s et s	o r	l i a b i l i t i e s .
•		 L e v e l	2 :	i n p u t s	o t h e r	t h a n	q u o t e d	p r i c e s	i n cl u d e d	w i t h i n	L e v e l	1	t h a t	a r e	o b s e r v a b l e	f o r	t h e	a s s et	o r	l i a b i l i t y ,	e i t h e r	d i r e c t l y ,	a s	p r i c e s	o r	
indirectly, derived from prices.
•		 L e v e l	3 :	i n p u t s	f o r	t h e	a s s et	o r	l i a b i l i t y	t h a t	a r e	n o t	b a s e d	o n	o b s e r v a b l e	m a r k et	d a t a	( u n o b s e r v a b l e	i n p u t s ) .
Forward currency contracts were fair valued in accordance with level 2 (2010: level 2).
Fair values
The carrying amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position for financial instruments are a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents
Fair values are assumed to approximate to cost due to the short term maturity of the instrument.
Borrowings, other financial assets and other financial liabilities
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair values have been 
estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position date.
  102     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Capital management
The group views its finance capital resources as primary comprising share capital, bank loans and operating cash flow.
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The board closely monitors its shareholder base, dividend yield and earnings per share.
The board encourages employees of the group to hold the company’s ordinary shares. The group operates a number of employee share option 
schemes. The company has acquired a number of its own shares under a share buy-back programme, and some of these shares have been used 
for issuing shares under the group’s various share option incentive schemes. 
Certain of the company’s subsidiaries are required to maintain issued share capital at levels to support capital adequacy requirements prevailing 
in the legislative environment in which they operate.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends made payable to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
On 8 March 2012, the group completed a refinancing of its banking facilities. The new facilities comprise £40 million committed facility and 
£35 million uncommitted facility. This represents an increase in total available facilities of £10 million. The uncommitted facility, coupled with cash 
generated from operations, is used to fund the group’s ongoing working capital requirements. The committed facility is in place to support the 
group’s strategic investment plans.
During the year £1.6 million was utilised to acquire shares in the company to crystallise the cost of satisfying potential awards under the 
employee share plan arrangements.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 201 1 and 31 December 2010.
24 OPERATING LEASES
The aggregate payments, for which there are commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year, fall due as follows:
 2011 2010
 Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
 buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 1,330 8,317 9,647 748 6,407 7 ,155
Between one and five years 3,747 14,305 18,052 1,994 9,932 1 1,926
More than five years 2,626 5 2,631 2,313 26 2,339
 7 ,703 22,627 30,330 5,055 16,365 21,420
 2011 2010
 Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
 buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Company   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 26 7 33 18 6 24
Between one and five years 105 16 121 74 – 74
More than five years 1,959 – 1,959 1,396 – 1,396
 2,090 23 2,113 1,488 6 1,494
The group leases the majority of its motor and commercial vehicles on terms that range between three and five years and during the year ended  
31 December 201 1, total operating lease expense of £1 1,049,000 was recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (2010: £10,702,000).
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     103
a ccounts
25 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
During the year ended 31 December 201 1, the group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £709,000  
(2010: £421,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
Company
During the year ended 31 December 201 1, the company entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £44,000  
(2010: £nil). This commitment is expected to be settled in the following financial year.
26 RELATED PARTIES
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key personnel
The group’s key personnel are the executive and non-executive directors and senior executive management as identified on page 24.
As at 31 December 201 1, directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 1.6% of the voting shares of the company  
(2010: 1.5%).
Non-executive directors receive a fee for their services to the board.
Other than disclosed in the Remuneration Report, there were no other transactions with personnel in either the current or preceding year.  
The cost charged to administrative expenses relating to share plans of key personnel amounted to £199,000 (2010: £39,000).
Company only
In addition to the transactions with key personnel the company has the following transactions:
Transactions with other group companies
 Highest Balance at Highest Balance at
 during 31 December during 31 December
 the year 2011 the year 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts due from subsidiaries 25,829 14,712 27 ,282 27 ,282
Amounts due to subsidiaries (33,671) (30,773) (33,058) (33,058)
The disclosure of the year end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered to provide a meaningful representation of 
transactions between the company and its subsidiaries in the year. The highest balance is generally at the start or close of the financial year 
since this is the time when the company levies its recharge of its operating expenses but during 201 1, payments were received and paid against 
the outstanding amounts reducing the balance at 31 December 201 1. 104     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
26 RELATED PARTIES continued
Related party transactions reported in the income statement
 For year For year
 ended ended
 31 December 31 December
 2011 2010
 £000 £000
Rental income  6,451 6,291
Dividends received 4,221 14,526
Recharge of operating expenses 2,206 2,294
Interest income 240 242
Pension recharge 200 239
27 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Management have given due consideration to any events occurring in the period from the reporting date to the date these Financial Statements 
were authorised for issue and have concluded that there are no material adjusting or non-adjusting events to be disclosed in these Financial 
Statements, with the exception of the matter described below.
On 8 March 2012 the group refinanced the terms of its banking facilities. The refinancing increased the availability of committed facilities and 
extended the availability of committed facilities to March 2015 with an option, in the lenders favour, to extend to March 2016. Uncommitted 
facilities were maintained at £35 million, renewable on an annual basis. The lending parties were also extended from one to two. There was no 
change to the financial covenant restrictions associated with the facilities.
Arrangement fees of £290,000 were incurred on the committed facility refinancing. This refinancing has not been accounted for in these Financial 
Statements and will be reflected in the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
 Place of 
 incorporation
 
*  HFD Limited Great Britain
*  MCD Group Limited Great Britain
 Headlam BV Netherlands
 LMS SA France
*  Belcolor AG Switzerland
All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned and their principal activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and distribution of 
floorcovering and certain other ancillary products. 
* These subsidiaries are owned directly by Headlam Group plc. The investment in subsidiaries comprises ordinary share capital.
Principal Trading Subsidiaries Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     105
a ccounts
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trading results     
Revenue 569,795 535,690 533,793 557 ,296 544,718
Gross profit 175,739 164,959 162,260 174,626 168,728
Overheads (147 ,687) (138,893) (137 ,502) (132,904) (122,715)
Operating profit 28,052 26,066 24,758 41,722 46,013
Profit before net financing costs 28,052 26,066 24,758 41,722 46,013
Net financing costs (464) (1,060) (2,694) (1,602) (841)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 27 ,588 25,006 22,064 40,120 45,172
Taxation (7 ,184) (7 ,127) (6,168) (1 1,433) (13,534)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 20,404 17 ,879 15,896 28,687 31,638
Shareholder value     
Paid dividend per share 12.40p 1 1.00p 19.70p 23.10p 20.15p
Proposed dividend per share 14.15p 12.40p 1 1.00p 19.70p 23.10p
Earnings per share  24.6p 21.5p 19.1p 34.5p 37 .1p
Net assets
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 94,201 97 ,215 96,530 99,741 92,097
Intangible assets 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210
Deferred tax assets 962 896 4,731 1,516 2,106
 108,373 1 1 1,321 1 14,471 1 14,467 107 ,413
     
Current assets     
Inventories 114,196 105,694 99,637 107 ,597 101,491
Trade and other receivables 111,656 102,240 101,149 105,942 100,830
Cash and cash equivalents 41,494 44,758 45,737 35,193 16,805
Assets held for sale 362 362 2,275 – –
 267 ,708 253,054 248,798 248,732 219,126
Total assets 376,081 364,375 363,269 363,199 326,539
Current liabilities     
Bank overdraft – – (758) – (103)
Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings (30,219) (225) (900) (4,506) –
Trade and other payables (154,490) (149,476) (143,216) (143,369) (154,320)
Employee benefits (2,669) (2,586) (2,506) (2,428) (1,491)
Income tax payable (6,678) (4,201) (8,615) (9,546) (10,747)
 (194,056) (156,488) (155,995) (159,849) (166,661)
Non–current liabilities     
Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings (3,691) (34,01 1) (34,392) (30,000) –
Employee benefits (11,789) (10,138) (20,253) (12,216) (9,837)
 (15,480) (44,149) (54,645) (42,216) (9,837)
Total liabilities (209,536) (200,637) (210,640) (202,065) (176,498)
Net assets 166,545 163,738 152,629 161,134 150,041
Financial Record 106     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Notice is hereby given that the sixty fourth Annual General Meeting of Headlam Group plc will be held at the group’s distribution facility located 
at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW on Friday 15 June 2012 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business
1.  To receive, consider and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Report and the Independent Auditor’s Report for the year 
ended 31 December 201 1.
2.  To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 201 1 of 9.85 pence per ordinary share.
3.  To re-elect as a director Steve Wilson who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
4.  To re-elect as a director Mike O’Leary who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
5.  To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the company from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
6.  To authorise the directors to determine the Independent Auditor’s remuneration.
7 .  To approve the director’s Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 201 1.
As special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 8, 12 and 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and 
resolutions 9 to 1 1 will be proposed as special resolutions:
8.  Authority to allot shares
(a)  that the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to allot  
 shares in the company, and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the company, up to an aggregate   
 nominal amount of £620,000 for a period expiring (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting)  
 at the end of the 2013 AGM (or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2013), and save that the company may before such   
 expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security  
 into shares to be granted, after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot shares and grant rights in pursuance of any such offer  
 or agreement as if this authority had not expired;
(b)  that, subject to paragraph (c), all existing authorities given to the directors pursuant to section 551 of the Act be revoked by this   
 resolution; and
(c)  that paragraph (b) shall be without prejudice to the continuing authority of the directors to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or  
 convert any security into shares pursuant to an offer or agreement made by the company before the expiry of the authority pursuant to  
 which such offer or agreement was made.
9. Dis-application of pre-emption rights
 that, subject to the passing of resolution 8 in this Notice and in place of all existing powers to allot securities given to the directors, the 
directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of 
the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 in this Notice, as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to the allotment. 
This power:
 (a) expires (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting) at the end of the 2013 AGM if passed (or,  
 if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2013), save that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement   
 which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance  
 of any such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired; and
Notice of AGM Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     107
a ccounts
(b) shall be limited to:
(i)  the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue to holders of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the company  
in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings and to people who hold other equity securities, if this is 
required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities and so 
that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to 
deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any 
territory or any other matter; and
(ii)  the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 12(b)(i) up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£213,000.
 This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as if, in the 
first paragraph of this resolution, the words “pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 in this Notice were omitted.
 
10. Authority to purchase own shares
 that the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make market 
purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the company, subject to the 
following conditions:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 8,536,000;
(b) the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5 pence;
(c) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount equal to 105%  
of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased; and (ii) an 
amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for  
an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System; and 
(d) the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business on  
30 June 2013 (except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was made before the expiry of this authority and  
which might be concluded wholly or partly after such expiry).
11. Shareholder rights directive
 that the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings (other than annual general meetings) 
on 14 days’ clear notice from the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM 
of the company to be held in 2013 or 30 June 2013, whichever is the earlier. 108     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
12. Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2012
that the directors be and are hereby authorised to establish the Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2012 (the “Sharesave Scheme”), 
a copy of the draft rules of which has been produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting (for the purposes 
of identification only) and a summary of the main provisions of which is set out in the Notice of Meeting to shareholders dated 
9 March 2012 and to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to the Sharesave Scheme, including 
amending the rules of the Sharesave Scheme in such manner as may be necessary to ensure that the Sharesave Scheme is approved by 
HMRC.
13. Sharesave for Employees Resident or Working Outside of the United Kingdom
that the directors be and are hereby authorised to exercise the powers of the company to establish schedules to the Sharesave 
Scheme or other share plans for employees resident or working outside of the United Kingdom, based on the Sharesave Scheme but 
modified to take account of local tax, exchange control and securities laws provided that such schedules or plans shall confer benefits
and contain limits so as to ensure, so far as the directors consider practicable, substantial equality of treatment with employees 
participating under the main body of the Sharesave Scheme, and that any shares issued or which might be issued under such other 
plans are treated as counted against any limits on individual or overall participation set out in the main body of the Sharesave Scheme. 
By order of the board
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
9 March 2012
Headlam Group plc
Registered No. 460129, England
Registered office:
Gorsey Lane, Coleshill
Birmingham, B46 1LW
Notice of AGM
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     109
a ccounts
Notes 1 to 16 below give further explanation as to the proxy, voting and attendance procedures at the AGM.
1. Entitlement to appoint proxies.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.  
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached  
to a different share or shares held by that member. A proxy need not be a member of the company. Appointment of a proxy will not preclude  
a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting. To appoint more than one proxy, a member must complete a photocopy of the 
enclosed proxy card or obtain additional forms from Capita Registrars, telephone 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
charges). Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday. Please also indicate by ticking the relevant box if the proxy appointment is one 
of multiple appointments being made. Multiple proxy appointments should be returned together in the same envelope. Enter in the box provided 
the number of shares in relation to which your proxy is authorised or leave the box blank to authorise your proxy to act in relation to your full 
voting entitlement.
2. Appointing proxies
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed (or a notarially certified 
copy of such power or authority) must reach Capita Registrars, Proxies Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 
4TU not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting. A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
3. Electronic proxy appointment through Crest
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euro-clear.com/CREST). CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored 
members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (“Euroclear UK & Ireland”) specifications and must 
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so 
as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 2 above. For this 
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by CREST application host) 
from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change 
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland does  
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timing and limitations will, therefore, apply in 
relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a 
CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular,  
to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST systems and timing.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified Securities 
Regulations 2001.
4. Joint holders
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the 
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand  
in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
5. Entitlement to attend and vote
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of 
members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the AGM is 6.00 p.m. on 13 June 2012 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 p.m.  
on the date two days before the date for the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be 
disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting 110     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
6. Nominated person
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy nomination rights (a “Nominated Person”) 
you may, under an agreement between you and the member of the company who has nominated you, have a right to be appointed (or have 
someone else appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If you do not have such a proxy appointment right, or you do but do not wish to exercise it, 
you may have a right to give instructions to the member who has appointed you as to the exercise of voting rights. If you are a Nominated 
Person, the statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply. Such rights can only be exercised 
by a registered member of the company.
 
7 . Issued share capital
As at 9 March 2012 the company’s issued share capital, including treasury shares, consisted of 85,363,743 ordinary shares of 5p (“shares”).  
Of these 2,241,197 shares were held in treasury, the voting rights and entitlement to dividend of which were automatically suspended. 
Accordingly the total number of voting rights in the company as at that date was 83,122,546.
8. Right to ask questions
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with 
section 319A of the Act. In certain circumstances prescribed by section 319A of the Act, the company need not answer a question.
9. Shareholder requests under section 527 of the Act
Under section 527 Companies Act 2006, members of the company representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the company or at least 
100 members who have a right to vote and hold shares in the company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at 
least £100, may require the company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the company’s accounts 
or any circumstances connected with KPMG Audit Plc ceasing to hold office since the last AGM that the members propose to raise at the 
meeting. Where the company is required to publish such a statement on its website, it may not require the members making the request to pay its 
expenses in complying with the request. The company must forward the statement to the company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes 
the statement available on its website. The business of the meeting includes any such statement that the company has been required to publish on 
its website.
10. Non-shareholder attendance
Persons who are not shareholders in the company will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior arrangements are made with the company.
11. Access arrangements
Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the meeting, please contact the company so that appropriate arrangements can be 
made.
12. Communicating with the company in relation to the AGM
Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the company in relation to the AGM should do so using the following 
means:
(a)  by writing to the Company Secretary at the company’s registered office address at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW;
or
(b)  by writing to: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
No other methods of communication will be accepted. In particular, you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice or  
in any related documents (including, without limitation, the Annual Report and Accounts 201 1 and the form(s) of proxy) to communicate with the 
company for any purpose other than those expressly stated in this Notice or in such other related documents.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting
continued  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     111
a ccounts
13. Inspection of documents
Copies of the directors’ service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors’ transactions in the 
company’s shares during the year and the written terms of reference for each of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination committees will be 
available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday (Saturday, Sundays and public 
holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available for 
inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting. There are no service agreements between any director and 
any subsidiary of the company.
14. Voting results
The results of the voting at the AGM will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on our website www.headlam.com.
15. Website
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 31 1A of the Act, can be found at www.headlam.com.
16. Data protection statement
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact 
details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number (attributed to you by the company). The company determines the purposes for which and 
the manner in which your personal data is to be processed. The company and any third party to which it discloses the data (including the 
company’s Registrars) may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the company’s records, fulfilling its legal 
obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise. 112     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 15 June 2012 at 10.00 a.m. 
A description of the resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting is set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive, together with resolutions 12 and 13 are proposed as ordinary resolutions which means that, for each of these 
resolutions to be passed, more than half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution. Resolutions 9 to 1 1 inclusive are proposed as 
special resolutions, which means, that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour  
of the resolution.
Resolution 1 – Annual Report and Accounts
The company is required by law to present to shareholders at the AGM its audited accounts and the directors and independent auditors’ reports 
for the financial year ended 31 December 201 1. Shareholders are invited to vote to receive and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 201 1. 
Resolution 2 – Declaration of dividend
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 9.85p on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, which together with the interim 
dividend of 4.30p, gives a total dividend of 14.15p for the year ended 31 December 201 1. Subject to approval of the declaration of the final 
dividend at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 2 July 2012 to the holders of ordinary shares whose names are recorded on the register 
of members at the close of business on 1 June 2012.
Resolution 3 – Re-election of Steve Wilson as a director
Steve Wilson is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by shareholders. Under the 
articles, directors are required to retire every three years. Steve was appointed an executive director in December 1991 at which time he 
became Group Finance Director. The board believes that Steve Wilson should be re-elected and makes such a recommendation to shareholders.
Resolution 4 – Re-election of Mike O’Leary as a director
Mike O’Leary is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by shareholders. Under the 
articles, directors are required to retire every three years. Mike was appointed a non-executive director in March 2006 at which time he was 
appointed as senior non-executive director and joined the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration committees, becoming Chairman of the 
Remuneration committee. The board believes that Mike O’Leary should be re-elected and makes such a recommendation to shareholders.
Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditor
The company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company, to hold office until the 
end of the next such meeting. This resolution proposes the appointment of an auditor. KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 6 – Agreement of Auditor remuneration
In addition to the company’s requirement to appoint an auditor, shareholder authority is sought for the directors to determine the remuneration to 
be paid to the auditor for the period of appointment.
Resolution 7 – Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholders are being asked to approve the 201 1 director’s Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 38 to 48 of the company’s Annual 
Report and Accounts. Whilst the payment of remuneration to the directors is not dependent on the passing of the resolution, the board will take 
the vote into account when considering the future development and operation of the company’s remuneration policy and practice.
Special Business – Resolutions 8 to 13
Resolution 8 – Authority to allot shares
Shareholders are being asked to pass the necessary resolution to grant to the directors a general authority, for the purpose of section 551 of  
the Companies Act 2006, to allot relevant securities. On this occasion, having due regard to the ABI guidelines and to comments received from 
shareholders, the proposed general authority is to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of £620,000 representing 12,400,000 ordinary 
shares (15% of the company’s ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) in issue at 9 March 2012 (the latest practical date prior to the 
publication of this report)). In determining the level of authority being sought this year, the directors had due regard to the ABI guidelines, which 
suggest that a resolution requesting authority to allot a further 33% of the company’s issued share capital is considered routine, and comments 
received from shareholders regarding what they considered to be a reasonable level. The authority sought this year representing 15% of the 
issued share capital is significantly reduced from the 27% sought and approved last year. As at 9 March 2012, the company held 2,241,197 
Explanatory Notes to the Proposed Resolutions Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     113
a ccounts
treasury shares, which represented approximately 2.70% of the company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares), which the company 
can cancel or hold for sale or use to meet the obligations under the company’s employee share schemes.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2013. Your directors have no current intention 
of exercising this authority except in connection with the company’s employee share schemes.
Resolution 9 – Dis-application of pre-emption rights
Shareholders are being asked to pass a resolution to empower the directors to allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash as if section 
561 of the Companies Act 2006 (which gives shareholders certain pre-emption rights on the issue of shares or rights to subscribe for or convert 
securities into shares) did not apply to any such allotment. The resolution allows the issue or sale of shares of up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £620,000 representing 12,400,000 ordinary shares in respect of rights issues and other issues pro-rata to existing entitlements, and also 
allows issues or sales for cash (other than in relation to a rights issue) limited to shares having an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000 (5% of 
the company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 9 March 2012). The authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013 or, if 
earlier, on 30 June 2013.
The directors confirm that they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with The Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles available at www.pre-emptiongroup.org.uk, the directors also confirm their 
intention that no more than 7 .5% of the issued share capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) will be issued for cash on a non pre-
emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
Resolution 10 – Purchase of own shares
The directors believe that it is in the interests of the company and its members to continue to have the flexibility to purchase its own shares and this 
resolution seeks authority from members to do so. The directors intend only to exercise this authority where, after considering market conditions 
prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such exercise would be to increase the earnings per share and be in the best interests of 
shareholders generally. The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the number of shares in issue or the directors may elect to hold 
them in treasury pursuant to the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (the Regulations”), which came into 
force on 1 December 2003. The Regulations enable certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, 
following a purchase of own shares by a company in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Shares held in treasury may subsequently be 
cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under a company’s employee share scheme. Once held in treasury,  
a company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares. Further, no dividend  
or other distribution of the company’s assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
This resolution renews the authority given at the AGM held on 17 June 201 1. The authority is in respect of 10% of the company’s issued ordinary 
share capital as at 9 March 2012 and will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2013. The resolution 
specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought. If the company buys any of its shares under the authority 
proposed by resolution 10, the board will decide at the time whether to cancel them immediately or hold them in treasury. The purchase of 
shares will be dependent on market conditions and will also take into account the cash generated in the business and other investment 
opportunities that may arise over time. During the year the company made no purchases of its own shares.
Details of share options outstanding and treasury share movements including details of own shares acquired by the company are shown 
respectively in notes 21 and 22 to the Financial Statements.
Resolution 11 – Shareholder rights directive
This will be proposed as a special resolution to approve the holding of general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 days’ notice. Although the 
company’s articles currently permit this, the Shareholder Rights Directive requires a shareholder resolution to be passed to authorise general 
meetings to be held on 14 days’ notice. Without the passing of resolution 1 1, the minimum notice period under the regulations would be 21 
days. If resolution 1 1 is passed by the shareholders, the regulations would only allow the company to call a general meeting on 14 days’ notice 
if it were to make a system of electronic voting available to its shareholders in respect of the meeting in question. The directors consider it to be in 
the best interest of shareholders to pass resolution 1 1, which is a repeat of the same resolution passed at last year’s AGM, in order to prevent 
being constrained by the regulations implementing the directive. It will be necessary for a similar resolution to be put to shareholders at each 
subsequent AGM. It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in the interests of shareholders as 
a whole. 114     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Explanatory Notes to the Proposed Resolutions
continued 
Resolution 12 – New Sharesave Scheme 
The company currently operates the Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 (the “2002 Scheme”). The 2002 Scheme expires on 19 June 
2012 and authority is sought to replace the 2002 Scheme on the terms set out in the proposed Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2012  
(the “Sharesave Scheme”).
Under the proposed Sharesave Scheme, an eligible employee who enters into an approved savings contract for a period of three or five years 
will be granted an option to acquire ordinary shares in the company at the end of that period using the proceeds of his savings contract, and,  
if applicable, any bonus or interest payable in relation to the savings contract. The exercise price of an option is fixed at the time the invitation to 
apply for an option is issued and will not be less than 80% of the market value of a share at that time. 
The Sharesave Scheme has been provisionally approved by HMRC and is an all-employee plan under which all participants are eligible to 
participate on the same basis. The directors are keen to retain the ability to grant tax efficient awards to employees at the levels permitted by 
relevant tax legislation. The Sharesave Scheme will continue to operate within the 10% dilution limit which applies to the 2002 Scheme and the 
company will manage its remaining capacity within this limit carefully and may use new issue shares, treasury shares and shares purchased in the 
market to satisfy options.
The Sharesave Scheme is substantially similar to the 2002 Scheme. The main provisions of the Sharesave Scheme are summarised below. 
A copy of the rules of the Sharesave Scheme is available for inspection at the registered office of the company at PO Box 1, Gorsey Lane, 
Coleshill, Birmingham B46 1LW and also at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP, 30 Crown Place, London EC2A 4ES during business hours on any 
weekday from the date of this Notice of Meeting until the close of the meeting. The rules will also be available for inspection at the AGM venue 
for 15 minutes prior to and until the end of the AGM. 
Resolution 13 – Sharesave for Employees Resident or Working Outside of the United Kingdom
Shareholder authority is sought to enable the directors to add schedules to the Sharesave Scheme or adopt share plans based on the Sharesave 
Scheme to enable the grant of options to employees outside of the UK, taking account of local tax, exchange and securities laws issues in the 
relevant jurisdiction.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     115
a ccounts
1. General
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC approved scheme under Schedule 3 of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (“Schedule 3”). 
Application for formal approval of the Sharesave Scheme will be sought from HMRC following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme by 
shareholders at the AGM.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme (“Options”) are not transferable (except on death) and are not pensionable benefits. 
Options may be satisfied by newly issued shares, shares purchased in the market by an employees’ trust or by the transfer of treasury shares.
Operation of the Sharesave Scheme is overseen by the directors or a duly authorised committee of the directors.
2. Eligibility
Any UK based employee (including any full-time director) of the company or other participating subsidiary who has been employed at a relevant 
grant date for a qualifying period of such length as the directors may determine from time to time (but not exceeding five years) and any other 
employee who is nominated by the directors is eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
3. Issue of invitations
Invitations to apply for Options will normally be issued within a period of 42 days beginning with the fourth dealing day following the 
announcement of the company’s results for any period. Options may be granted at other times in circumstances considered by the directors to  
be exceptional. No Options may be granted after 15 June 2022.
4. Exercise price
The price per share at which ordinary shares in the company (“Ordinary Shares”) may be acquired upon exercise of an Option is determined  
by the directors before Options are granted on any occasion. It must not be less than the higher of:
•	 8 0	p e r	c e n t	o f	t h e	m a r k et	v a l u e	o f	a n	O r d i n a r y	S h a r e	w h e n	i n v i t a t i o n s	a r e	i s s u e d	t o	e l i g i b l e	e m p l o y e e s ;	a n d
•	 i n	t h e	c a s e	o f	O p t i o n s	t o	s u b s c r i b e	f o r	n e w	O r d i n a r y	S h a r e s ,	t h e	n o m i n a l	v a l u e	o f	a n	O r d i n a r y	S h a r e .
5. Monthly savings
Any employee who applies for an Option must enter into an HMRC approved “save as you earn” contract (the “Savings Contract”). The 
employee agrees to enter a Savings Contract for a period of three or five years and to make monthly savings contributions of a fixed amount, 
currently of not less than £5 nor more than £250, over three or five years. Upon expiry of the Savings Contract, the participant may be entitled 
to receive a tax-free bonus in addition to repayment of the savings contributions. The participant may elect to apply the proceeds of the Savings 
Contract to exercise the Option and acquire Ordinary Shares. Alternatively, the participant may choose to withdraw the proceeds of the Savings 
Contract.
6. Exercise of options
Options will normally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the maturity of the related Savings Contract.
7 . Leaving employment
Early exercise is permitted following death or cessation of employment by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching age 65, 
or where the participant’s employer ceases to be a part of the group.
In such cases, Options may be exercised within six months of leaving, to the extent that the funds then available in the participant’s Savings 
Contract permit. In the case of death, personal representatives may exercise the deceased participant’s Option within twelve months of the date 
of death.
In other circumstances, Options will lapse on cessation of employment.
If a participant reaches age 65 but remains employed within the group, he may exercise his Option within six months of reaching that age.
8. Corporate events
Early exercise of Options is permitted in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, reconstruction or voluntary winding-up of the company.
Alternatively, by agreement with the acquiring company, participants may, as specified in the rules of the Sharesave Scheme, release their 
Options in consideration of the grant of options over shares in the acquiring company.
Summary of the main provisions of the Headlam Group 
Sharesave Scheme 2012 (the “Sharesave Scheme”) 116     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
9. Dilution limit
The number of new Ordinary Shares issued or remaining capable of being issued pursuant to Options and other options or awards granted 
under the company’s other employees’ share schemes in any period of 10 years, will not exceed 10 per cent of the ordinary share capital of  
the company in issue from time to time.
If Options or other options or awards are to be satisfied by a transfer of existing Ordinary Shares, the percentage limit stated above will not 
apply. Insofar as it is necessary to ensure compliance with the guidelines issued from time to time by the Association of British Insurers, the 
percentage limit will apply to Options or other options and awards satisfied by the transfer of treasury shares. Ordinary Shares newly issued to 
the trustee of an employee’s trust will count towards the limit.
10. Rights attaching to shares
Ordinary Shares allotted or transferred under the Sharesave Scheme will rank equally in all respects with all other Ordinary Shares then in issue, 
except for any rights attaching to Ordinary Shares by reference to a record date preceding the allotment or transfer of such Ordinary Shares.  
The company will apply to the UK Listing Authority for the listing of any newly issued Ordinary Shares.
11. Variation of share capital
If there is a variation in the ordinary share capital of the company, the directors may make such adjustments as they consider appropriate to the 
total number of Ordinary Shares subject to any Option and the exercise price payable upon the exercise of any Option. Except in the case of a 
sub-division, consolidation or a capitalisation issue, if the directors consider it appropriate, any adjustment must be confirmed in writing by 
independent advisers and no adjustments may take effect without the prior approval of HMRC.
12. Alteration of the Sharesave Scheme
The directors may amend the Sharesave Scheme in any respect. However, they may not make any alteration to the advantage of participants 
without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting to the provisions relating to eligibility, overall and individual limitations on the 
number/monetary value of Ordinary Shares in respect of which Options may be granted or the basis for determining a participant’s right to 
acquire Ordinary Shares and the adjustment of such rights in the event of a variation of share capital unless the alteration is necessary to comply 
with any change in legislation, to maintain HMRC approval, to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for 
participants or any member of the group, or it is a minor amendment to benefit the administration of the Sharesave Scheme. 
No amendment to a key feature of the Sharesave Scheme will take effect unless and until such amendment has been approved by HMRC.
This summary does not form part of the rules of the Sharesave Scheme and should not be taken as affecting the interpretation of its detailed terms 
and conditions. The directors reserve the right up to the time of the AGM to make such amendments and additions to the rules of the Sharesave 
Scheme as they consider necessary or appropriate provided that such amendments do not conflict in any material respect with this summary.
Summary of the main provisions of the Headlam Group 
Sharesave Scheme 2012 (the “Sharesave Scheme”) 
continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     117
a ccounts
Shareholder helpline
The company’s shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars (“Capita”), who are responsible for making dividend payments and 
updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders’ addresses and purchases or sales of company shares. If you have a question 
about your shareholding in the company you should contact: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent. BR3 4TU. 
email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com, telephone 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p plus network extras). Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday  
to Friday.
Frequent shareholder enquiries
If you change your address
Please notify Capita in writing. If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by all named shareholders.
If you change your name
Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost share certificates
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately. A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign. Capita will charge 
for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts
If you receive more than one copy of the company’s communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two accounts. 
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, write to Capita 
to request the accounts are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK
If you wish to trade in the company’s shares, you can do so at Capita’s website, www.capitadeal.com or alternatively use a stockbroker or high 
street bank which trades on the London Stock Exchange. There are many telephone and online services available. If you are selling, you will 
need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow,  
is available from Capita’s website www.capitaregistrars.com. Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no 
money being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information
Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers. Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are updated 
regularly throughout the trading day. For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker. Additionally there is a link to the 
London Stock Exchange on the company’s website.
The company’s website
The company’s website at www.headlam.com provides news, details of activities, and information on the share price. The investor information 
section of the website contains up to date information for shareholders including the company’s latest results and key dates such as dividend 
payment dates.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It may be especially 
useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains tax 
implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information can be 
obtained at www.sharegift.org.
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with financial 
institutions. It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many companies and can 
search for lost assets and entitlements. The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 10% of which goes to charity. 
For further information, visit www.uar.co.uk.
Shareholder Information 118     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Warning to shareholders – boiler room scams
We have been made aware of our shareholders receiving unsolicited telephone calls from companies offering to buy Headlam shares at a 
substantial premium to the prevailing market price for a large shareholder intending to make a takeover bid. These callers, who can be extremely 
persuasive and persistent, are usually based overseas and are commonly known as “boiler room scams”. Shareholders are advised to be wary  
of any unsolicited investment advice or approach to buy or sell shares… if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
 
If you receive an unsolicited investment approach, you should:
•	 C o n fi r m	t h e	n a m e	o f	t h e	p e r s o n	c a l l i n g	a n d	t h e	o r g a n i s a t i o n	t h ey	r e p r e s e n t
•	 C h e c k	t h a t	t h ey	a r e	r e g i s t e r e d	w i t h	t h e	F i n a n c i a l	S e r v i c e s	A u t h o r i t y	( F S A )	by	c a l l i n g	0 8 4 5	6 0 6	1 2 3 4	o r	by	v i s i t i n g	w w w . f s a . g o v . u k/ r e g i s t e r /	
and contact the firm using the details on the register
•	 R e p o r t	t h e	m a t t e r	t o	t h e	F S A	by	c a l l i n g	0 8 4 5	6 0 6	1 2 3 4	o r	by	v i s i t i n g	w w w . f s a . g o v . u k/ p a g e s / co n s u m e r i n f o r m a t i o n
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. Further information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk. If you have any 
queries, please contact the Company Secretary. 
Shareholder Information
continued Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Registered office
Headlam Group plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
Tel: 01675 433000 
Fax: 01675 433030
Website
www.headlam.com
E-mail
headlamgroup@headlam.com
Registration
Registered in England and Wales
Number 460129
