 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview 01–05
01 Introduction
02 HellermannTyton at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
Strategic report 06–21
06 Chief Executive’s introduction
07 About HellermannTyton
10 Proven and robust business model
12 Strategy
13 Key performance indicators
14 Business review
17 Our risks
19 Corporate social responsibility report
Governance 22–48
22 Board of Directors
23 Directors’ report
27 Nominations Committee report
28 Audit Committee report
32 Directors’ remuneration report
46 Other statutory disclosures
Financial statements 49–95
49 Independent auditors’ report – Group
52 Group income statement
52 Group statement of comprehensive income
53 Group balance sheet
54 Group statement of changes in equity
55 Group statement of cash ﬂows
56 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
90 Independent auditors’ report – Company
92 Company balance sheet
93 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
Other information 96–IBC
96 Shareholder information
IBC Deﬁnitions 
Contents HellermannTyton is a market leading global manufacturer 
and supplier of high performance and innovative cable 
management solutions for fastening, identifying, insulating, 
protecting, organising, routing and connecting components 
in the Group’s Electrical, Automotive and Datacom & Other 
markets. The Group operates world-class production facilities 
in 12 primary locations across ten countries offering over 
20,000 products and employing a total of 3,606 employees 
worldwide as at 31 December 2013. 
The Group builds and generates underlying long-term value 
through its long-term relationships with its industrial customer 
base. This is underpinned by its focus on high levels of 
quality and customer service, together with its commitment 
to providing innovative products and solutions to meet the 
demanding needs of its customers.
The Group’s clearly articulated strategy and distinctive business 
model positions HellermannTyton to deliver strong long-term 
performance and attractive annual returns to its shareholders.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Strategic report St tra rate tegi gic c re epo port r Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
01
More online: www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com 2013 performance 
Group revenue in the year ended 31 December 2013 was 
€538.0 million, 11.1% ahead of 2012 in constant currency  
and 4.6% ahead at reported rates. 
The Group’s underlying EBITA and underlying EBITDA for 
the year ended 31 December 2013 were €83.0 million and 
€104.8 million respectively, compared with €79.2 million and 
€100.4 million respectively in 2012. The Group’s underlying 
EBITA and underlying EBITDA margin have remained strong  
at 15.4% and 19.5% respectively for the year. 
Strategy
The Group’s aim is to extend its leadership in the industry and 
to be its customers’ partner of choice by providing consistent, 
high quality, reliable and innovative cable management 
solutions as well as strong customer service by:
 focusing on providing cable management solutions 
for the Group’s market segments which have high 
growth opportunities primarily driven by the 
increasing demand for power and data;
 designing and producing innovative products 
and solutions;
 increasing penetration of the Group’s products and 
services to existing customers; 
 strengthening the Group’s presence in geographies 
with high growth opportunities; and
 continuing to invest in the Group’s manufacturing 
and logistics infrastructure in order to maintain high 
service levels whilst minimising overall cost at the 
point of delivery.
Revenue € million
2012: €514.2 million
1. EMEA 53
3. Asian 22
Revenue split by geography 
%
2. Americas 25
2
3
1
2. Automotive 47
1. Electrical 45
Revenue split by market 
%
3. Datacom & Other 8
3
2
1
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 02
Read more on page 12
Read more on pages 14–16 Products and services
The Group offers an extensive range of high quality products 
and solutions (more than 20,000 products available in over 
70,000 SKUs) developed to meet the needs of both OEM 
and end-user customers in its chosen markets. Most of the 
Group’s products, though produced in large volumes, are not 
particularly commoditised and are categorised into ﬁve distinct 
product portfolios: Fixings, Insulation and Protection, Network 
Connectivity, Identiﬁcation, and Installer Solutions.
Primary manufacturing 
locations in ten countries
Producing more than 
20,000 products
Direct sales operations 
in 34 countries
Manufacturing, 
Sales & Logistics
Sales Ofﬁce Sales &  
Logistics
Electrical installation Aerospace Offshore Shipbuilding Defence
Solar energy Wind energy Rail transportation Automotive Electrical wholesale Electronics
Telecommunications
Diverse end-markets
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Strategic report St tra rate tegi gic c re epo port r Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce F F Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
03
Read more: www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com Introduction 
2013 was a landmark year for the HellermannTyton Group 
as it became a listed company while continuing to deliver 
good results from implementing its organic growth strategy. 
The Group listed on the London Stock Exchange on 2 April, 
following the IPO by Doughty Hanson of the majority of the 
Group’s shares. The IPO was met with signiﬁcant investor 
demand and the shares have subsequently performed strongly, 
rising by almost 55% from the IPO price of 195 pence per 
share to close the year at 302 pence per share.
2013 was also an important year for the Board, which I 
joined as Chairman in February. Three additional experienced 
independent Non-executive Directors were recruited at the 
same time, and the Board was therefore at full strength at the 
time of the IPO.
Performance
I am pleased to report that HellermannTyton delivered good 
progress in 2013. The Group’s revenue of €538.0 million 
increased by 11.1% in constant currency and 4.6% at reported 
rates compared with 2012. Underlying EBITA and underlying 
EBITDA were €83.0 million and €104.8 million respectively 
with margins remaining strong at 15.4% (underlying EBITA) 
and 19.5% (underlying EBITDA). This primarily reﬂects the 
increased volume of sales in all of the Group’s segments and 
markets as the Group continued to deliver the strategy that 
was set out at the time of the IPO.
Financial position 
Net debt position at 31 December 2013 was €150.6 million, 
including €220.0 million of senior secured notes and cash and 
cash equivalents of €80.0 million, which included €29.5 million 
of net proceeds from the IPO.
On 26 February 2014, the Group signed a new €230.0 million 
revolving credit facility to replace the existing senior secured 
notes and undrawn revolving credit facility.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share (EPS) for the year were 
22.81 cents (2012 pro forma 22.23 cents). Reported basic EPS 
were 10.60 cents and reported diluted EPS were 10.41 cents.
Final dividend
Underlying EPS
I believe that the Group will continue to 
deliver good growth in the years ahead, 
underpinned by its continuing strategic 
focus and investment in maintaining 
excellent customer service, strong 
innovation and the high quality of its  
global infrastructure and workforce.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04 Dividend 
The Group targets a payout ratio of 30–40% of underlying 
annual net income with interim and ﬁnal payments of 
approximately one third and two thirds respectively. The ﬁrst 
interim dividend of 1.32 cents per share was pro-rated from 
Admission to 30 June, and was paid on 16 October.
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 5.23 cents per share, 
which will be paid to shareholders on 7 May 2014 subject to 
approval at the AGM. 
Board and governance
The year saw a number of changes to the Board’s composition, 
which meant we were fully compliant with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code at the time of Admission to the Ofﬁcial List 
of the London Stock Exchange.
I joined the Board as Chairman in February together with a 
further three independent Non-executive Directors – John 
Biles, Tim Hancock and David Lindsell. John, Tim and David 
each bring a variety of strengths and skills from their previous 
experience and these are discussed in the Governance Section 
starting on page 22. Doughty Hanson has one nominated 
Director on the Company’s Board, Alex Moss. 
The Board also includes two Executive Directors, Chief 
Executive Steve Salmon and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Tim Jones. 
The Company therefore fulﬁls the requirement of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code that at least half the Board, 
excluding the Chairman, comprises Non-executive Directors 
determined by the Board to be independent. 
Tim Hancock holds the position of Senior Independent Director 
and the Board has established Nominations, Remuneration and 
Audit committees, currently composed as described later in this 
report, with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and 
written terms of reference. 
Employees
The Group’s strategy is to empower local management, 
ensuring they have ownership of day-to-day operational 
decision making. As such, each of the Group’s segments is 
led by Regional Presidents who report to the Chief Executive. 
The Group has experienced senior managers around the 
globe with signiﬁcant knowledge and understanding of their 
respective markets and regions. I have had the pleasure of 
meeting many of them during the course of the year and 
hearing ﬁrst hand how positively the IPO has been received 
by them and their colleagues.
I am ﬁrmly of the belief that the most important investment 
a company can make is in its employees. There is no doubt 
in my mind that the outstanding success of HellermannTyton 
is due to its dedicated and talented management team, and 
to the quality and determination of its employees worldwide. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their 
continuing dedication and focus on delivering the growth of 
the business.
Summary
As you will read in this Annual Report, HellermannTyton is in 
very good shape and has once again delivered good organic 
growth enabling the Board to recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 
5.23 cents per share.
I believe that the Group will continue to deliver good growth 
in the years ahead, underpinned by its continuing strategic 
focus and investment in maintaining excellent customer 
service, strong innovation and the high quality of its global 
infrastructure and workforce. 
David Newlands
Chairman
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Strategic report St tra rate tegi gic c re epo port r Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
05 We anticipate being able to carry on 
taking advantage of a number of 
positive underlying structural drivers and 
our programme of capital investment 
is designed to ensure we deliver 
sustainable growth.
Introduction 
The listing of HellermannTyton Group PLC on the London 
Stock Exchange in April was a signiﬁcant milestone in 
HellermannTyton’s history, providing a strong platform on 
which to continue on our growth track. The listing was 
achieved without operational management and employees 
losing focus on delivering the high levels of service and 
reliability that our customers have come to expect. 
This has resulted in another year of proﬁtable growth 
against a background of uncertain economic conditions. 
This performance could not have been achieved without their 
commitment, for which I would like to give my sincere thanks.
Mission and strategy
HellermannTyton’s mission is to provide innovative solutions 
with customer satisfaction as our ﬁrst priority and we aspire, 
through global leadership and quality products, to be the 
customers’ ﬁrst partner of choice. Our focus on implementing 
the strategy that we describe in more detail later in this 
Annual Report has delivered good organic revenue growth 
of 11.1% in 2013 in constant currency terms whilst also 
maintaining margins.
Encouragingly, this growth is not attributable to any 
one speciﬁc geography, customer, project win, product 
launch or innovation. It is the result of many initiatives 
that have come to fruition, for example, the use of 
HellermannTyton’s EdgeClips on photovoltaic power 
installations in order to overcome the operational safety 
issues experienced with metal-based solutions, and the 
continuing success of our Helagaine protection sleeving in 
the wind sector which has been proven to withstand the 
highly abrasive conditions found inside wind turbines. 
Furthermore, our world-class marketing activities together with 
our development teams and sales forces in all of our chosen 
markets are continuing to deliver a strong pipeline of projects 
and innovations to meet the needs of customers in 2014 
and beyond. 
Operational highlights 
We aim to achieve world-class operational excellence for the 
beneﬁt of our customers, our employees and the interaction 
of our business with the environment. We have continued 
to invest in the asset base during 2013 to facilitate this, 
with several notable milestones during the course of the 
year, including:
 the start-up of production in the new manufacturing 
facility on Good Hope Road in Milwaukee, which is 
providing additional capacity to meet the growth we 
are seeing in the North American market;
 the start-up of manufacturing in Poland, bringing synergies 
to our activities and adding capacity to our European 
manufacturing operations; and
 further investment and expansion to strengthen and grow 
our operations in China.
We will continue to invest in our capacity during 2014, which 
will be essential to secure our future proﬁtable growth while 
meeting the service expectations of our customers. 
Outlook for 2014
2014 has started well as the Group continues to focus 
on delivering growth through broadly based initiatives. 
Global industrial production is forecast to increase in 2014 
and we expect to beneﬁt from this given our focus on 
providing innovative solutions for our industrial customer 
base. In addition, we anticipate being able to carry on taking 
advantage of a number of positive underlying structural 
drivers, including the increasing demand for power and data 
and the ongoing switch from metal to plastic. Our programme 
of capital investment is designed to ensure we continue to 
deliver sustainable growth.
Steve Salmon  
Chief Executive
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 06 Group history
The Group originated in Europe in the 1930s when the UK 
“Insuloid” and German “Paul Hellermann” businesses were 
established. From 1969, the Group expanded its operations 
outside Europe to include Brazil, Japan, Singapore and the 
United States. During the 1990s, the Group continued its 
expansion with the 1997 acquisition of operations in Austria 
and Spain and the 1998 expansions into Argentina and China. 
From 1998, the Group focused on the globalisation of the 
business and consolidation of its brand position under the 
HellermannTyton name, including the adoption of a uniform 
marketing and operations structure. In 2006, the Group was 
acquired by Doughty Hanson, a leading European private 
equity ﬁrm. 
The Group has continued to expand its production capacity 
and supply chain, increased its focus on sales and marketing 
and operational improvements, and expanded its operations, 
for example in South and Central America, Asia and 
Eastern Europe.
On 2 April 2013, the shares of HellermannTyton Group PLC 
were admitted to the Ofﬁcial List and to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange’s Main Market and on 30 October 
2013 the Group joined the FTSE 250. 
Original businesses  
founded making electrical 
insulation products in  
the UK and Germany
The Group expanded  
its operations outside 
Europe to include Brazil, 
Japan, Singapore and the 
United States
The Group continued its expansion 
with the 1997 acquisition of 
operations in Austria and Spain 
and the 1998 expansions into 
Argentina and China
The Group has focused on 
the globalisation of the 
business and consolidation 
of its brand position under 
the HellermannTyton name. 
Group acquired by Doughty 
Hanson in 2006
In April 2013, the shares of 
HellermannTyton Group PLC 
were successfully admitted 
to the Ofﬁcial List and to 
trading on the London 
Stock Exchange
Read more: www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com
1930s From 1969 1990s 1998 to date 2013
Read more on page 00
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
07
Products and services
The Group offers an extensive range of high quality products 
and solutions (more than 20,000 products available in over 
70,000 SKUs) developed to meet the needs of both OEM 
and end-user customers in its chosen markets. Most of the 
Group’s products, though produced on a large scale, are not 
particularly commoditised. The Group categorises its product 
ranges into ﬁve distinct product portfolios: Fixings, Insulation 
and Protection, Network Connectivity, Identiﬁcation, and 
Installer Solutions.
The Group provides HellermannTyton branded products 
through which it has established its brand recognition and 
loyalty. The Group has been able to build on the strength 
of its brand identity on the basis of the quality of its products 
and solutions which are designed to be installed and last for 
the lifetime of end-users’ equipment. Strengths
The breadth of HellermannTyton’s products, geographies 
and customers, together with its commitment to the 
production of high quality innovative products and 
solutions, have contributed signiﬁcantly to its growth 
and position as a market leader in its core geographies. 
The Group’s competitive strengths include:
A market leader with a strong, 
worldwide brand
The Group believes that HellermannTyton is a market leader 
in providing cable management solutions, particularly in 
its Electrical and Automotive markets in the EU, Japan and 
Brazil. The Group is a technical leader in its Datacom & Other 
market. This market position has been achieved through a 
combination of the Group’s continued innovation across 
its product lines, its high levels of customer service, and its 
focus on OEMs and other customers which themselves have 
achieved strong growth. The Group’s focus on targeting, 
and operating in, fast growing markets has also contributed 
to this growth. 
The Group’s reputation is based on its consistent reliability, 
the innovative use of its proprietary know-how and its 
commitment to customer service. The HellermannTyton 
brand is one of the leading brands in the cable management 
solutions industry in its core geographies. 
The strength of the HellermannTyton brand is based on 
the Group’s ability to leverage its proprietary moulding 
know-how to create customised products which can be 
standardised by the Group for mass production to supply 
the wider market. The high quality, reliability and innovative 
nature of its products, as well as its strong levels of customer 
service, all help to strengthen the HellermannTyton brand.
Long-standing, blue chip and growing 
customer base
HellermannTyton has a diverse customer base with a global 
footprint, including many blue chip companies that are 
leaders in their markets. The Group typically develops new 
products, solutions and technologies in close collaboration 
with these customers. The Group’s cable management 
solutions have applications with some of the world’s leading 
OEMs. Its ability to offer high quality and reliable standardised 
and customised cable management solutions has positioned 
it as a key long-standing partner for many leading OEMs. 
The Group has manufacturing plants and distribution centres 
near many of its key customers, enabling high service levels 
to be achieved. 
As its customers expand their global operations, 
HellermannTyton’s global presence ideally positions it 
to satisfy its customers’ global demand for the Group’s 
products. The Group’s sales to its top 15 customers grew 
at a CAGR of 21% from 2009 to 2013 and of the Group’s 
top 15 customers, 14 were in the top 15 ﬁve years ago.
About HellermannTyton continued
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 08 Well positioned in attractive and 
growing markets
HellermannTyton supplies to a broad range of end-markets 
with good long-term growth characteristics, which it groups 
into three overall markets. 
The Electrical market will continue to present structural 
growth opportunities, including growing demand for power 
and data, greater urbanisation, and increasing industrial 
and infrastructural construction. These demands will drive 
the need for increased volumes of cable management 
solutions. Examples of the industrial applications of the 
Group’s products in the Electrical market include products 
for offshore oil and gas platforms, commercial aircraft and 
defence equipment. 
In the Automotive market, the Group expects trends such 
as weight reduction requiring the switch from metal to 
plastic ﬁxings to continue to be driven by global trends 
such as growing environmental awareness, tighter emission 
regulations and increasing fuel costs. This is expected to 
increase demand for high quality and innovative cable 
management solutions. The Group also expects growth in 
demand for vehicle wire harness ﬁxing products to be driven 
by greater consumer and regulatory demand for safety and 
comfort features which require power and data. 
The Datacom & Other market is likely to continue to 
beneﬁt from the increasing demand for data, internet usage 
(including cloud computing), storage and outsourcing, which 
has resulted in greater broadband penetration, growth in the 
number of data centres, growing demand for applications for 
LAN and WAN providers, and increasing demand for cable 
installation efﬁciencies.
Strong and experienced  
management team
The Group has a highly trained global workforce and 
experienced senior and regional management teams with 
strong industry credentials and many years of relevant 
international experience. At the Group level, Steve Salmon 
(Chief Executive) and Tim Jones (Chief Financial Ofﬁcer) 
have cumulatively spent over 40 years with HellermannTyton. 
At the regional management level, each of the Group’s 
segments is led by Regional Presidents with signiﬁcant 
experience and understanding of their respective markets 
and regions. The Group’s decentralised management model 
empowers local management, giving them ownership of  
day-to-day operational and commercial decision making, 
enabling them to make decisions quickly at the local level in 
order to best serve customers.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
09 The Group’s broad diversiﬁcation, global presence, 
innovation focus and decentralised management structure 
ensure responsiveness to customer and market needs.
Broad diversiﬁcation across regions, customers, 
end-markets and product lines
The Group’s business is diversiﬁed across regions, customers, 
end-markets and product lines thus giving it exposure to 
a wide range of different growth trends and enhancing its 
overall resilience to cyclicality in particular markets or regions. 
The Group offers over 20,000 products in more than 70,000 
SKUs through an experienced global sales force. This extensive 
product range is grouped into ﬁve product categories (Fixings, 
Insulation and Protection, Network Connectivity, Identiﬁcation, 
and Installer Solutions) that serve the Group’s Electrical, 
Automotive and Datacom & Other markets. The Group’s 
products ﬁnd application in diverse end-markets including 
aerospace, defence, alternative energy, mass transit, oil and gas, 
car, bus, truck, heavy equipment, data centres and telecoms.
The Group is diversiﬁed geographically, with direct sales 
operations in 34 countries. For the year ended 31 December 
2013, the Group generated 53% of its revenues in its EMEA 
segment, 25% in its Americas segment and 22% in its Asian 
segment. The Group serves a broad range of customers across 
its business including OEMs, Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers, 
wholesalers, distributors and catalogue companies. 
This diversiﬁcation across product lines, regions and customers 
enhances the Group’s stability and protects against reliance on 
any particular product, customer or geography.
World-class manufacturing capabilities 
and global supply chain capabilities
The Group currently operates world-class production facilities 
in 12 primary locations across ten countries – three in the 
UK and one in each of the United States, Germany, France, 
Poland, China, Singapore, South Africa, Brazil and Japan. 
These production locations provide more than 20,000m
2
 of 
manufacturing ﬂoor space and operate over 350 injection 
moulding machines. For the year ended 31 December 2013, 
the Group incurred capital expenditure of €40.7 million, which 
included the completion of the ﬁt out of the Good Hope 
Road facility in Milwaukee, US, and the start-up of production 
in Poland. The Group’s world-class production facilities and 
distribution operations are integrated globally but managed 
on a regional basis.
The Group focuses on particular markets or areas of expertise in 
each geographic region whilst beneﬁting from an inter-regional 
supply chain to optimise capital investment, manufacturing and 
freight costs and achieve economies of scale in the procurement 
of raw materials and the shipment of ﬁnished products. 
Maintaining close proximity to its customers gives the Group 
a deep understanding of local requirements and regulations 
thereby allowing it to target those local markets with high levels 
of service. This proximity has also created a ﬂexible supply chain 
capable of responding to short-term ﬂuctuations in customer 
demand and delivering orders in a cost effective manner on 
a short lead time to customers.
Global footprint providing high standards 
of service locally
The trend for automotive OEMs 
to consolidate car lines onto global 
platforms combines well with 
HellermannTyton’s strengths. 
The electrical architecture of these 
platforms is designed by the development 
engineers at the OEMs in close 
cooperation with HellermannTyton  
and the harness makers. Then, during 
production, HellermannTyton is able to 
support the OEMs and their tier suppliers anywhere in the world  
with high levels of local service that can be achieved through its global 
network of manufacturing, logistics and warehousing operations.
Extensive product range suitable for wide range 
of applications
HellermannTyton’s extensive range 
of cable tie and edge clip 
assemblies is widely used for ﬁxing 
and bundling cables, pipes and 
hoses within automotive, white 
goods, solar, harness making and 
panel building industries. They are 
ideal for use where holes are not 
acceptable or where adhesives will 
fail due to temperature problems.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Strong focus on innovation and new 
product introduction
The Group’s products and solutions are an important contributor 
to the efﬁcient installation, assembly, performance, quality 
and reliability of the cable and wiring in the end-product that 
is manufactured, assembled or installed by the end-customer. 
It is for this reason that customers are primarily focused on 
the reliability and quality of the particular cable management 
solutions they require and the total value of HellermannTyton’s 
offering. The Group’s products are speciﬁed and approved 
into the design of its customers’ product platforms such that 
its solutions are typically purchased for the duration of the 
build programme. 
The Group’s approach to innovation across its product lines 
allows it to offer unique solutions to its customers that many of 
the Group’s competitors may not be able to develop. The Group 
possesses the technical expertise to design and manufacture 
products and develop customised designs and solutions to meet 
its customers’ particular needs which can then be standardised 
for mass production. The know-how and technical expertise 
accumulated in developing, designing and manufacturing 
the Group’s products in-house give it a distinct competitive 
advantage and HellermannTyton’s design and customisation 
abilities allow it to provide a high quality of specialised services 
to its customers.
Strong competitive position with 
high barriers to entry
The cable management business is characterised by relatively 
high barriers to entry including proprietary know-how and 
technical expertise and a high level of initial capital required 
to invest in moulds, equipment, machinery and facilities. 
In its experience, the Group’s customers require a high level 
of proven customer service and quality before switching 
suppliers. With its established customer relationships, technical 
and proprietary expertise, and world-class production facilities 
as well as local sales and distribution teams, the Group has a 
strong competitive position.
The breadth of its product offering and global presence enables 
the Group to provide a broad range of cable management 
solutions to its customers worldwide. The Group also has long-
standing customer relationships with its products being, where 
required, pre-approved for purchase. This saves its customers 
time and costs by eliminating the need for them to undertake 
multiple approval processes for particular products in different 
geographies. For example, in the Automotive market, the 
Group’s products are approved into the design of its customers’ 
product platforms resulting in the utilisation of its solutions for 
the duration of its customers’ build programme. This has allowed 
the Group to develop long-term mutually beneﬁcial relationships 
with its customers.
Proprietary RapidNet solution for Datacom market
A customer with a national 
network of data centres 
was seeking to upgrade its 
infrastructure in preparation 
for the implementation of 
the latest 100 gigabits per 
second technology. 
HellermannTyton’s patented 
high density pre-terminated 
RapidNet system was 
selected due to its technical 
performance, high density of ﬁbre (maximising the use of valuable 
data centre space) and the speed and ease with which the solution 
could be implemented.
High levels of innovation to meet the most 
demanding applications
The operating conditions in the generator 
strand of military fast jet aircraft are 
extremely challenging. When damage 
occurs, the complete electrical load is 
carried by a second generator, resulting  
in strong electrical currents and high 
temperatures. HellermannTyton applied 
its expertise to develop new high 
performance cable ties with special 
design and material features that reduced 
the degree of brittleness under these 
conditions, resulting in their being 
speciﬁed on a major military aircraft programme. 
b ( ( i i i h h f f l l b bl l
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
11 The Board of Directors is responsible for strategy and 
measuring the Group’s progress against strategic objectives. 
Executive management is responsible for implementing strategy 
through a sustainable business model, which is simple and 
decentralised, and designed to maximise responsiveness to local 
market conditions and to minimise central overhead costs.
Proven strategy to deliver growth above growth 
of global industrial production
The Group has consistently delivered and is committed to 
continue delivering long-term growth of between 3% and 4% 
above the growth in global industrial production. Since 2007, 
the Group has achieved a constant currency revenue growth 
of approximately 5.5% CAGR, compared with modest growth 
in industrial production over the same period. 
The Group’s aim is to continue to implement its strategy of 
extending its leadership in the industry and to be its customers’ 
partner of choice by providing consistent, high quality, reliable 
and innovative cable management solutions as well as strong 
customer service. The following are key elements of the 
Group’s strategy:
 focus on providing cable management solutions for the 
Group’s market segments which have high growth 
opportunities primarily driven by the increasing demand for 
power and data;
 design and produce innovative products and solutions;
 increase customer penetration;
 strengthen presence in geographies with high growth 
opportunities; and
 continue to invest in the Group’s manufacturing and logistics 
infrastructure in order to maintain high service levels whilst 
minimising overall cost at the point of delivery.
The Group is well placed to take advantage of structural 
growth opportunities given its broad range of solutions and 
market leading position in its core geographies. The Group 
also expects to beneﬁt from the increasing demand for cable 
management solutions in growth areas such as alternative 
energy, mass transit, and ofﬁce and home equipment markets, 
where the Group already provides a strong range of cable 
management solutions. The Group believes that all of these 
trends will help it meet its objective of outperforming growth 
in underlying industrial production levels. According to Oxford 
Economics, global industrial production is forecast to grow at 
a CAGR of 3.8% in the period from 2013 to 2017.
Through its understanding of local and regional industry 
requirements, its technical expertise, broad product portfolio 
and operational capabilities, the Group intends to take 
advantage of the opportunities in these markets to further 
increase its market share.
Solar case study
HellermannTyton’s EdgeClip has been selected by a 
global customer that delivers turn-key photovoltaic power 
installations. The customer recently faced operational safety 
issues with its metal-based edge clip solution results from 
an increase in the direct current voltage in modules from 
1 kV to the level of 1.5 kV. HellermannTyton’s EdgeClip 
ﬁtting solution eliminated the threat of voltage ﬂashovers. 
Following a trial phase, HellermannTyton received a blanket 
order of 1.1 million units.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 The Group uses a number of key performance indicators (KPIs) 
to measure day-to-day operational and ﬁnancial activity in the 
business. Most of these are studied on a daily, weekly or monthly 
basis. A comprehensive management report, including proﬁt and 
loss statements for each segment as well as key ratios related to 
efﬁciency and customer service, is prepared and provided to the 
executive management team and the Board on a monthly basis.
The Group has determined that the following KPIs, covering 
both ﬁnancial and operational performance, are the most 
effective measures of progress towards achieving the Group’s 
strategic objectives.
Key performance indicators
Constant currency organic sales growth 
Constant currency sales growth is a measure of how we are 
growing our business organically. We aim to achieve year-on-
year organic growth in sales, on a constant currency basis, of 
3–4% above global industrial production, which excludes the 
effects of currency translation and acquisitions or divestments.
Underlying return on sales 
Underlying return on sales is deﬁned as underlying EBITA as 
a percentage of sales and is a measure of proﬁtability in our 
business. Our intention is to maintain a return in the mid-teens 
throughout the cycle as we continue to invest in resources 
and infrastructure to grow the business. A reconciliation of 
underlying operating proﬁt to reported operating proﬁt is 
presented on page 16.
Underlying EBITDA margin 
Our intention is to maintain the underlying EBITDA margin at 
around the 20% level throughout the cycle as we continue 
to invest in resources and infrastructure to grow the business. 
A reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to reported operating 
proﬁt is presented on page 16.
Underlying earnings per share 
Earnings per share (EPS) is a commonly used measure 
of ﬁnancial performance for shareholders. We aim to 
achieve growth in underlying basic (i.e. undiluted) EPS. 
Underlying basic EPS is deﬁned as the ratio of underlying 
earnings for the year to the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
Underlying earnings excludes certain non-operational 
items which are presented in Note 5 of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements. 
CO
2
 emissions 
Good environmental practice and the impact that our 
operations have on the environment are of great importance 
to HellermannTyton. CO
2
 emissions are deﬁned as tonnes of 
business miles and electrical and gas usage CO
2
 created as a 
result of the Group’s operations per million parts produced by 
the Group’s manufacturing operations.
The Group KPIs are shown below: 
 2013 2012
Constant currency organic 
sales growth +11.1% +5.3%
Underlying return on sales 15.4% 15.4%
Underlying EBITDA margin 19.5% 19.5%
Underlying EPS 22.81 cents 22.23 cents
CO
2
 emissions (tonnes per million 
items produced) 2.48 2.57
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
13 Revenue by geographic segment
Growth (%)
€ million
Year ended  
31 December 2013
Year ended  
31 December 2012 Reported rates Constant currency
EMEA 283.4 270.3 +4.8% +7.6%
Americas 136.1 128.9 +5.6% +12.8%
Asian 118.5 115.0 +3.0% +17.3%
Total revenue 538.0 514.2 +4.6% +11.1%
Revenue for the EMEA segment was €283.4 million, which is 
4.8% higher than 2012 and 7.6% higher in constant currency, 
despite challenging market conditions.
Revenue for the Americas segment was €136.1 million, which 
is 5.6% higher than 2012 and 12.8% higher in constant 
currency, reﬂecting increased sales volumes, particularly in 
the Automotive market.
Revenue for the Asian segment was €118.5 million, which 
is 3.0% higher than 2012 and 17.3% higher in constant 
currency as a result of increased sales volumes in the 
Automotive market.
Group revenue in the year ended 31 December 2013 was 
€538.0 million, 1 1.1% ahead of 2012 in constant currency 
and 4.6% ahead at reported rates. 
Automotive case study
HellermannTyton placed a strong emphasis on working 
closely with the engineers at a major North American OEM 
to design, develop and prototype 24 custom and standard 
fasteners as well as cable channels. Our involvement in the 
development stage meant that we were in a strong position 
to win the production business which was ultimately awarded 
due to HellermannTyton’s North American manufacturing 
and tool-making capabilities and fast design and prototype 
turnaround time. 
The harness is being assembled in the Philippines and 
shipped to the US for assembly onto the vehicle, so our 
global manufacturing and supply chain capabilities mean 
that we are able to supply the harness maker directly from 
our operations in the region.
An additional beneﬁt is that the fasteners have all been added 
to the OEM’s global parts list and have begun to be introduced 
across all of its car lines, resulting in increased revenue growth 
opportunities globally beyond this platform.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Revenue by market
Growth (%)
€ million
Year ended  
31 December 2013
Year ended  
31 December 2012 Reported rates Constant currency
Electrical 240.2 243.2 -1.2% +7.5%
Automotive 254.6 225.2 +13.0% +16.7%
Datacom & Other 43.2 45.8 -5.7% +1.4%
Total 538.0 514.2 +4.6% +11.1%
Electrical: on a constant currency basis, there was growth 
in all regions. HellermannTyton continues to beneﬁt from 
the growth in the complexity of electrical content for power, 
safety and comfort, and the expectations of end-users for 
high quality, reliable products. The Group focuses on providing 
innovative solutions for demanding applications meeting 
exacting industrial standards and safety requirements.
Automotive: there was strong growth in car, bus and truck in 
all regions, particularly in the Asian (China) and Americas (US) 
car markets. The structural growth drivers for HellermannTyton 
in this market include an increase in cable and wire content; 
the substitution of metal by plastic; increasing safety standards; 
and new and more innovative platforms. 
Datacom & Other: the Datacom business was impacted 
by the reduced level of projects being undertaken, mainly in 
Europe, due to the lower level of government ﬁnanced projects 
being approved. The underlying data centre market drivers 
remain good for sales of proprietary RapidNet solutions, but 
low economic growth in Europe is undermining corporate 
appetite for signiﬁcant investment in this area. 
Cost of sales
The Group’s cost of sales for the year was €313.2 million 
(2012: €300.5 million), representing an increase of 
€12.7 million, or 4.2%. This increase was principally due to 
increased sales, with margins remaining relatively constant.
The manufacturing margin (gross proﬁt before one-off costs) 
for the year was 42.4% compared with 41.9% in 2012.
Selling and distribution costs
Selling and distribution costs incurred for the year were 
€119.4 million (2012: €113.4 million), representing an 
increase of €6.0 million, or 5.3%. The costs represent 
22.2% of revenue compared with 22.0% in 2012, reﬂecting 
a slight increase in distribution costs as a proportion of 
revenue mainly due to increased use of third-party logistic 
warehouses in some jurisdictions.
Administrative expenses
The Group’s administrative expenses for the year were 
€42.7 million (2012: €34.7 million). The increase is principally 
due to one-off transaction costs in respect of the IPO of 
€2.3 million and a €10.1 million non-cash movement in the 
revaluation of intra-group ﬁnancing loans which resulted 
in a loss of €7.6 million in 2013, compared with a gain of 
€2.5 million in 2012.
Finance costs – net
Net ﬁnance costs were €28.4 million (2012: €15.3 million). 
The increase is primarily due to the accelerated write-down 
of the bond transaction costs of €13.0 million.
Railway case study
Russian railway companies have been ordering passenger 
carriages from German manufacturers for several years. 
The tough demands of the Russian climate require 
components to be fully operational at temperatures below 
-50 degrees Celsius. HellermannTyton T50R-/T120R-ETFE 
cable ties were selected by the customer as they are 
produced with advanced materials that are well suited 
to the task.
The prospects remain promising as the customer has secured further orders for 
its railway coaches to be delivered over the coming years.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
15 Taxation
The tax charge for the year was €12.7 million (2012: €19. 1 million), 
resulting in an effective tax rate on underlying proﬁt for the 
period of 28.5%.
Cash ﬂows
Year ended 31 December
€ million 2013 2012
Cash ﬂows:
from operating activities 43.9 35.4
used in investing activities (36.7) (34.8)
from/(used in) 
ﬁnancing activities 26.9 (10.0)
Net cash movement 34.1 (9.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities
Underlying operational cash ﬂows for the year were 
€43.9 million (2012: €35.4 million). The year-on-year 
increase was due to improved trading and €5.7 million 
lower taxation payments.
Net cash used in investing activities
Capital expenditure in 2013 of €40.7 million included the 
completion of the ﬁt out of the Good Hope Road facility 
in Milwaukee, US (€8.3 million); replacement moulding 
machines, automation and other production equipment 
in the UK, Germany, France, Brazil, China, Singapore and 
Japan (€14.3 million); construction of the Technical Centre in 
Germany (€1.8 million); set up of equipment in the new rented 
facility in Poland (€0.7 million); commencement of the new 
mezzanine logistics area in Manchester (€0.8 million); and 
new and replacement moulds (€7.4 million) and ERP upgrade 
projects in Germany and the UK (€2.9 million).
Net cash generated from ﬁnancing activities
Net cash generated from ﬁnancing activities was €26.9 million 
compared with €10.0 million used in 2012. The net inﬂow in 
2013 includes the net proceeds from the IPO of €29.5 million 
and the payment of the interim dividend of €2.8 million in 
October 2013.
Liquidity and funding
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 were 
€80.0 million (31 December 2012: €50.1 million).
Net debt at 31 December 2013 was €150.6 million 
(31 December 2012: €170.5 million) with, at that date, undrawn 
committed facilities of €80.0 million. Subsequent to year end, 
we have arranged a new corporate facility of €230.0 million. 
€200.0 million of this, together with available funds, will be used 
to repay the secured notes, leaving €30.0 million as committed 
and undrawn.
The ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA as at 31 December 
2013 was 1.4x (31 December 2012: 1.7x).
Underlying results
The following tables reconcile the underlying results to 
operating proﬁt and basic earnings per share:
Year ended 31 December
€ million 2013 2012
Underlying EBITDA 104.8 100.4
Depreciation (21.8) (21.2)
Underlying EBITA 83.0 79.2
Amortisation (6.8) (6.8)
Underlying operating proﬁt 76.2 72.4
One-off costs (3.7) (1.7)
Gain on disposal of asset 0.9 –
Transaction costs (2.3) (7.5)
(Loss)/gain on revaluation  
of intra-group loans (7.6) 2.5
Operating proﬁt 63.5 65.7
Year ended 31 December
cents 2013 2012
Basic earnings per share 10.60 15.59
Amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets 2.35 2.44
Transaction costs 5.28 4.85
Non-cash loss/(gain) on 
revaluation of intra-group loans 3.57 (1.28)
One-off costs including  
gain on disposal of asset 1.01 0.63
Underlying basic  
earnings per share 22.81 22.23
Business review continued
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 The HellermannTyton Group faces a number of risks in its day-to-day 
activities. Our responsibility is to mitigate these risks and uncertainties 
with a formal risk management process. We have identiﬁed below 
the main risks that we believe can adversely affect our results, 
impacting our employees, operations, revenue, proﬁts, cash ﬂows 
or net assets. 
The Group’s risk register is built up from individual 
contributions from the key manufacturing operations. 
There has been a top-down review by members of the 
Executive Committee and Board, facilitated by Internal Audit. 
Risk registers are maintained and periodically updated. 
As well as identifying the headline risks, emerging risks are 
also identiﬁed and members of management are assigned to 
monitor and oversee actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that our risks 
are managed appropriately and, either directly or through the 
Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management processes and other internal controls. 
Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee with a quarterly 
update of risk management activity and the risk register is a 
standing item in business performance reviews.
In the section below, we have selected from the risk register 
those items we currently consider to have the greatest 
potential impact on the Group. The order in which they 
are presented is not signiﬁcant.
During 2013, a more consistent approach to reporting risks and 
how they are being managed has been applied by operating 
units, and this process will be developed further in 2014.
Damage to reputation 
The Group’s business depends to a signiﬁcant extent on 
its customers’ trust in its reputation for quality, its brand 
and product portfolios. The Group relies on marketing to 
strengthen its brand name, and its marketing initiatives may 
prove to be ineffective. The maintenance and protection of 
the HellermannTyton brand, as well as the Group’s ability to 
enter new geographic markets and distribution channels and 
sell new products, are subject to express and implied warranty 
claims. All levels of management are vigilant and attentive to 
customer satisfaction and the maintenance of product quality 
and monitor market activity and developments closely. 
Customer relationships
The Group enters into contracts or agreements of one year or 
less with some customers, which do not guarantee sales of a 
ﬁxed volume of products and typically have variable pricing. 
Such agreements are generally non-exclusive and terminable 
upon minimal notice periods. These customers may alter their 
purchasing behaviour, seek to negotiate pricing levels or reduce 
or cancel orders with little or no notice to the Group, which 
could lead to delays or cancellation of orders from one or more 
of the Group’s major customers, the loss of one or more major 
customers, or the failure of one or more major customers to 
make timely payments.
There is close monitoring and periodic review of strategy 
to determine the risks to the retention of major customers. 
Efforts are also made in sales and marketing to attract new 
customers and to encourage existing good customers to 
expand their business with us.
Threat of lower priced competitors
The Group’s customers are active in competitive industries 
and face constant pressure to lower their selling and 
production costs. As a result, the Group has experienced 
and could continue to experience increased pressure from its 
customers to reduce its prices or they could seek lower priced 
options from the Group’s competitors. Pricing pressure from 
OEMs is a characteristic of the passenger vehicle industry, 
the commercial vehicle industry and other OEM industries. 
Management monitors closely the competition as well as 
developing programmes and milestones to determine when 
to take necessary actions. There are also initiatives to manage 
and reduce operating costs in order to maintain the Group’s 
current margins and competitive position.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
17 Retention and incentivisation of key employees
The Group is dependent on its senior management team, 
including its regional managers. The loss of members of 
senior or regional management or the inability to hire 
experienced personnel could harm the Group’s reputation 
and could negatively affect its business. Furthermore, since 
the Group is striving to expand its business in a competitive 
market, it is important for it to attract and retain highly 
qualiﬁed employees, particularly in the areas of sales, 
marketing, product development, operations, engineering, 
ﬁnance and management. There is a constant review of 
remuneration methods including the employee share plans. 
HellermannTyton maintains a positive work environment and 
encourages original thinking and innovation.
Risk of contraction in Automotive market
Demand for the Group’s automotive products is dependent on 
general economic conditions and industrial output and more 
sensitive to change than is the case in some other industries. 
For example, a substantial deterioration in vehicle production 
such as experienced in 2008 and 2009 could have a signiﬁcant 
negative effect on the Group’s sales and results of operations. 
The Group is susceptible to downturns in economies around 
the world, including major economic centres such as the EU, 
the US and Japan, as well as emerging markets such as China 
and Brazil. This risk is mitigated by diversiﬁcation of product 
range and increasing sales to other market segments as well 
as by all levels of management monitoring activity carefully 
and keeping up-to-date with developments in the sectors.
Failure to innovate and develop new products
The markets in which the Group operates are characterised, 
in part, by new product introduction and changing consumer 
preferences and demands, as well as changing industry 
standards. The Group’s customers, especially OEMs, demand 
complex and innovative solutions for their cable management 
requirements and the Board expects this to continue. 
The ability to anticipate technological trends and respond to 
customer needs by developing innovative solutions in a timely 
manner is crucial to the Group’s business. The Group carefully 
monitors all new products in development and invests in high 
calibre employees. Each manufacturing unit regularly reviews 
its engineering and product development resources to ensure 
that they are sufﬁcient to meet customer demands.
Dependence on third-party manufacturers
The Group relies on third-party manufacturers, in particular 
their equipment such as moulding machines, for the 
manufacturing of certain items, as well as for sourcing ﬁnished 
goods. The Group also relies on third-party warehousing and 
logistics providers for some of the distribution of its products 
and services to customers. The Group does not have control 
over the management or business of these third parties, except 
indirectly through terms it negotiates in its contracts with 
them. Management strives to obtain multiple source suppliers 
for these products and seeks to maintain strong relationships 
with them. These suppliers are regularly reviewed and 
evaluated to ensure that the highest quality service is provided 
to our customers and that we optimise our operating margins.
Raw materials supply
The Group’s business is heavily dependent on the availability 
and cost of raw materials, for example PVC and polyethylene 
and, particularly, PA66. The producers of PA66 have, on 
occasion, historically suffered from operational and weather-
related disruptions to the supply of their chemical feedstocks 
and ﬁnished products. Any reduction in the availability 
of raw materials and periodic delays in the delivery of 
certain raw materials could signiﬁcantly disrupt the Group’s 
production. In addition, the Group does not have in place any 
arrangements to hedge its exposure to raw materials prices, 
partly because no market exists for it to be able to do so. 
We mitigate this risk in a number of ways. Multiple suppliers 
are sought out and volume limits from each supplier are 
managed. Furthermore, if supplies are curtailed in one country, 
they can be imported from another country.
Foreign exchange
The Group’s reported results of operations and ﬁnancial 
condition are affected by exchange rate ﬂuctuations. 
The Group has historically been exposed to translation and, 
to a lesser extent, transactional ﬂuctuations in foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Group’s reporting currency is the Euro, 
although it generates signiﬁcant revenue in other currencies. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013, approximately 65% 
of the Group’s total revenues were denominated in currencies 
other than the Euro. The Group is primarily exposed to 
movements in the Euro against the Japanese Yen and the 
US Dollar, and, to a lesser extent, Sterling, the Singapore 
Dollar and the Brazilian Real. The exchange positions are 
regularly reviewed and forward exchange contracts entered 
into to reduce the risk. Strategic reviews are also conducted 
to determine if any further innovations are necessary to 
reduce potential exposure.
Our risks continued
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 HellermannTyton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour. 
We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical 
conduct has an important impact. We therefore take our 
corporate social responsibilities (CSR) seriously and are 
committed to advancing our policies and systems across the 
Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR 
that are relevant to our business. These include good ethical 
behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, care for 
the environment and community involvement.
We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with 
all parties who may have an interest in our activities including 
customers, suppliers and employees. We conduct regular 
customer satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance 
and actively encourage feedback from our employees.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is 
committed to developing and implementing appropriate 
policies while adhering to a fundamental commitment to 
create and sustain long-term value. The Board does not believe 
that, to date, the activities of the Group have presented any 
signiﬁcant environmental risks.
Ethics
HellermannTyton expects that all of its business is conducted 
in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice. 
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, 
customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s ethics policy has been developed to ensure 
that the Group’s business adheres to high ethical and legal 
principles, and to set standards of professionalism and integrity 
for all employees and operations worldwide.
The following is a summary of the ethics policy:
 All employees have the right and responsibility to ensure 
that HellermannTyton’s business is conducted according 
to high ethical and legal principles.
 Our policy is to operate within applicable laws.
 Discrimination or harassment of any kind will not 
be tolerated.
 As a matter of policy, we do not make political donations.
 No bribes shall be given or received and we comply with 
the Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
 Conﬂicts of interest must be avoided.
 We aim to be a responsible partner within our 
local communities.
 Employees are encouraged and supported to report, in 
conﬁdence, any suspected wrongdoings (“whistleblowing”).
Employees
The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest 
calibre of employees within the context of an operating 
structure that encourages them to contribute and develop. 
An environment that fosters innovation and supports a 
culture of entrepreneurship and partnership is critical to 
HellermannTyton’s success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes 
are developed for technical, administrative and management 
staff. Employees are provided with numerous learning and 
development opportunities to fulﬁl their potential. A wide 
variety of both technical and managerial courses and training 
materials is available to employees. These employment 
development opportunities are structured to align with both 
the Group and regional goals and objectives.
Leadership development and succession planning are also 
processes that are critical to the continued success of the 
business. These plans are regularly discussed and updated 
as the competition for talented employees increases and the 
leadership needs of our business grow. Formal performance 
reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the 
organisation. The Group is committed to providing equality of 
opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without 
unlawful or unfair discrimination. Full support is given to the 
employment and advancement of disabled persons and this is 
reinforced through the Group’s ethics policy.
Breakdown of Directors and employees
Male Female
Directors 7 –
Senior managers 
(excluding Directors) 8 1
Employees 2,303 1,287
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
19  Corporate social responsibility report continued
Manufacturing within the automotive, electrical and 
communication industries tends to be populated by male 
employees by virtue of the nature of the processes which 
involve dirt, high noise levels and engineering technology.
HellermannTyton looks to employ the best team members 
for the roles within the Group and does not discriminate in 
any way.
Health and safety
The Chief Executive is the Director appointed by the Board to 
have responsibility for the health, safety and environmental 
performance of the Group. The Group health and safety policy 
places responsibility for the management of health and safety 
on local management, who are supported by local external 
advisers, where necessary.
Each location has designated an individual to be responsible for 
ensuring that they conform to local statutory health and safety 
regulations as well as Group policy. All sites provide employees 
with a written health and safety policy.
An annual internal report on our health and safety performance 
is collated from a questionnaire completed by all our locations.
Independent external reviews of the Group’s health and safety 
performance are conducted annually. Regular designated 
health and safety awareness training programmes, particularly 
at our manufacturing sites, are also carried out. The Group’s 
health and safety performance and signiﬁcant risk exposures 
are reviewed regularly by management and periodically by 
the Board.
Environmental
Good environmental practice and the impact that our 
operations have on the environment are of great importance 
to HellermannTyton. The main aim of HellermannTyton’s 
environmental policy is to comply with local, state and national 
environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we 
operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
Sites are required to comply with Group policy and local 
statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own 
environmental targets. An annual environmental questionnaire 
is completed by each location which highlights their 
environmental performance.
Our manufacturing sites worldwide operate ISO 14001 
accredited environmental management systems. ISO 14001 
requires organisations to implement policies designed to 
mitigate their environmental impact. In addition, various sales 
and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO 14001 
accreditation and a number are working towards achieving 
this accreditation.
A large proportion of our products are designed and 
manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal 
of the product at the end of its life cycle, with more than 90% 
of our ﬁnished plastic components being suitable for material 
recycling. Our businesses comply with the Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment Regulations (“the WEEE Regulations”) 
and the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous 
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 
2004 (“the RoHS Regulations”).
The environmental performance of the Group continues 
to improve with sites meeting goals for reducing energy 
consumption, reducing waste and greater recycling. There are 
programmes in place aimed at reducing the amount of waste 
sent to landﬁll by increasing the volume of recycling, including 
recycling materials during our manufacturing processes. 
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken 
in parallel with those for health and safety as described above.
Community
Through our charitable donations policy, HellermannTyton 
strives to be a responsible partner in the communities in which 
it operates. We encourage all our businesses to support the 
particular needs of their communities by contributing to local 
charities and community initiatives. Support takes the form of 
employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
By encouraging our employees to become involved in 
fundraising activities for local concerns and community 
initiatives, HellermannTyton continues to support all our 
employees and businesses in ﬁnding ways of helping 
their communities.
Greenhouse gas emissions
In order to report the greenhouse gas emissions for the 
Group, data from the ﬁve largest manufacturing locations (UK, 
Germany, US, Japan and Singapore) which account for 80% 
of the total Group spend on power, have been collected for 
electricity and gas usage as well as business mileage following 
the guidance of Defra as well as the Carbon Trust.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting 
and Reporting Standard and emissions factors from the 
UK Government Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors 
Guidance 2013.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 2013 2012
Tonnes equivalent carbon dioxide (CO 2e) T onnes of CO
2
e Tonnes of CO 2e
Business mileage for all travel by car
Vehicles 1,681 tonnes 
= 0.3188 tonnes per 
1,000 miles
Vehicles 1,029 tonnes 
= 0.2019 tonnes per 
1,000 miles
Electricity and gas usage 30,765 29,807
Total gross emissions 32,446 30,836
Intensity measurement
Pieces produced 13,086,479,967 12,007,475,685
Tonnes CO
2
 per million items produced 2.48 2.57
This shows the efﬁciency gain and relative energy saving.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts O O Other information Ot Othe her r in nfo form rmat atio ion n
21 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board of Directors 
 
22 
David Newlands was appointed Chairman of the Company with 
effect from 22 February 2013. He qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Deloitte & T ouche in 1968 and was admitted to 
the partnership at the age of 30. In 1989, he joined The General 
Electric Company plc and spent eight years as Group Finance 
Director . Since leaving the Company in 1997, he has held 
numerous directorships with companies such as Standard Life 
Assurance, Britax International plc and T omkins plc, amongst 
others. He is currently a Director of Paypoint plc.  
Steve Salmon has been the team leader of the business for 18 
years, previously as Group President and Group General Manager . 
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at the age of 21, he 
went into industry initially at Courtauld’ s London head office in 
1970, joining the Bowthorpe Group (then owners of the 
HellermannT yton business) in 1973, where he became Group 
Financial Controller in 1985. 
Tim Jones was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group in 
February 2006, following the purchase by Doughty Hanson. He 
was previously Head of Internal Control at Spirent plc, with a 
reporting line to the Audit Committee, a role he held for five years. 
Previously , he was Group Management Accountant. He spent 11 
years working for De La Rue plc in a number of financial roles, 
including Management Accountant at both divisional and business 
unit level. He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Studies 
from Bournemouth University and is qualified as a Chartered 
Management Accountant. 
Tim Hancock was appointed Senior Non-executive Director of the 
Company with effect from 22 February 2013. He has over 35 
years’ experience in the investment banking industry and was 
formerly a Managing Director and Partner at Rothschild. In the 
past 15 years, he has served as a Non-executive Director to several 
companies and charities, including British-Borneo Petroleum PLC 
and the British Neurological Research T rust. Tim is also a Director of 
Thos Proctor & Son Limited and GoJaspa Limited, a Senior Advisor 
to Douglas Bay Capital plc and a T rustee of St Peter & St James 
Hospice. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree with Honours in 
Modern History from the University of Oxford. 
John Biles was appointed a Non-executive Director of the 
Company with effect from 22 February 2013. He qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse & Co, following 
which he held the position of Financial Director at various 
subsidiaries of Racal Electronics Plc and then successively Group 
Finance Director of Chubb Security Plc and FKI Plc. Since 2001, he 
has served in numerous non-executive roles with companies such 
as Charter International PLC and Viridian Group PLC. He is 
currently a Director of Bodycote PLC and Sutton and East Surrey 
Water plc. In each case, he also held or holds the position of 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. He holds a Bachelor of 
Sciences Combined Honours degree in Chemistry and Physics from 
the University of Exeter . 
David Lindsell was appointed a Non-executive Director of the 
Company with effect from 22 February 2013. He spent almost 
30 years as a partner at Ernst & Y oung and served as the lead audit 
partner for numerous FTSE 100 companies during his career at the 
firm. He is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committees of Premier Oil plc and Drax Group plc. He was Deputy 
Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to 
2012 and has served on a number of professional bodies relating 
to financial reporting and the accountancy profession. He 
graduated from Cambridge University with a Bachelor’ s degree in 
History and is a Chartered Accountant. 
Alex Moss is a Principal at Doughty Hanson where he has worked 
since 2006. Prior to joining Doughty Hanson, he worked for over 
five years at Close Brothers Corporate Finance in London. He has 
a Bachelor of Sciences degree in Biological Sciences with Honours 
in Biochemistry from the University of Edinburgh. 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
Directors’ report 
 
23
 
In this Directors’ report, we describe how we 
govern the Company, say who the Board are 
and explain the role of the Board 
The statutory disclosures on pages 46 to 48 form part of this 
Directors’ report. Details of the Company’ s risk management 
objectives and policies and the Company’ s exposure to market risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk are given in Note 3 to the financial 
statements. In addition, details of the Group’ s principal activities, 
likely future developments, greenhouse gas emissions, research 
and development activities and employee information are included 
in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 21. 
Corporate governance statement 
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate 
governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable 
business. Details are set out below of the Company’ s corporate 
governance procedures and application of the principles and 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012. A copy of the 
Code is available online at www.frc.org.uk. 
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout 
the period ended 31 December 2013 with all the provisions of 
the Code. 
The Board’s responsibilities 
At the time of the IPO, the Board adopted a schedule of matters 
reserved for its attention. The Board is responsible to shareholders 
for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group. 
It therefore approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue 
budgets. It reviews significant investment proposals and the 
performance of past investments and maintains an overview and 
control of the Group’ s operating and financial performance. It sets 
policies for monitoring the Group’ s overall system of internal 
controls, governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary 
financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet 
its objectives. Following the IPO, the Board has adopted objective 
written criteria for the appointment of Directors and the roles of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-executive Directors have been 
defined in writing. 
The Company Secretary’ s responsibilities include ensuring good 
information flows to the Board and its committees and between 
senior management and the Non-executive Directors. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
reserved for the Board. The Company Secretary is responsible, 
through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate 
governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their 
professional development. This includes regular corporate 
governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of 
operational site visits and the provision of external courses 
where required.  
Introduction 
Good corporate governance allows boards to direct their companies effectively. Therefore, 
the Board believes that the Company’ s strategy and business must be underpinned with 
an effective governance framework that assists the Group’ s operations and facilitates 
business success. This is the Company’ s first Annual Report and Accounts since it was 
incorporated on 19 February 2013 and the Directors are pleased to present their report 
on the governance arrangements the Board has adopted and shaped since it was 
admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report continued 
 
24 
Board composition 
The Board currently has seven members. It comprises two 
Executive Directors (the Company’ s Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer), a Non-executive Chairman and four Non-
executive Directors, three of whom are considered by the Board to 
be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Details of the Directors and their biographies can be found 
on page 22. Graeme Stening, Legal Counsel at Doughty Hanson, 
was appointed alongside Alex Moss as Director upon the Company’ s 
incorporation for practical reasons, but resigned shortly afterwards 
on 6 March 2013. There were no other changes to the Board in 
2013. In accordance with the Company’ s articles of association, 
the Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for re-
election at least every three years. Provision B.7.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code states that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should stand for annual election by shareholders and 
the Company intends to comply with this provision.  
Considering diversity 
At the time of the IPO, the process of recruiting Non-executive 
Directors with an international skill set and broad range of skills to 
complement the business took into account diversity and the mix 
required to move the Group forward after its admission to the 
London Stock Exchange. The Board believes there is an appropriate 
mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity which enables 
them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively . The Board is of sufficient size, meeting the requirements 
of the business, and no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board. As the Group develops and grows in an 
international arena, the Board will keep the requirements to consider 
diversity under review. 
The Company currently has five male Non-executive Directors 
and two male Executive Directors. 
Board meetings 
During 2013, there were eight scheduled Board meetings 
including a one-day meeting at the Group’ s Plymouth site to 
introduce the Non-executive Directors to the senior management 
team and a one-day meeting at the Group’ s T ornesch site which 
considered the Group’ s strategy . The table below shows 
attendance levels at the scheduled Board and Committee 
meetings held during the year; the numbers in brackets confirm 
how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend during 
the year . There was no need for the Nominations Committee to 
meet on a formal basis during the year . 
 
Board  
meetings 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
David Newlands 8 (8) 3 (–) 1 (1)
John Biles 8 (8) 3 (3) 1 (1)
David Lindsell 8 (8) 3 (3) 1 (1)
Tim Hancock 8 (8) 3 (3) 1 (1)
Alex Moss 7 (8) 3 (–) 1 (–)
Steve Salmon 8 (8) 3 (–) 1 (–)
Tim Jones 8 (8) 3 (–) 1 (–)
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were 
provided with all the papers and information relating to that 
meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the 
Chairman and Chief Executive. There are eight Board meetings 
currently planned for 2014. 
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are set out on 
page 39. The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have 
letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company during normal business hours 
and at the place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and 
until the end of the meeting.  
Chairman 
David Newlands is the Chairman of the Board. He ensures that 
appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders. He 
has responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for 
ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to 
their roles. He also chairs the Nominations Committee. 
Chief Executive 
Steve Salmon is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for 
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the 
executive management of the Group. 
Chief Financial Officer 
Tim Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for the 
financial conduct of the Group. 
Senior Independent Director 
Tim Hancock is the Senior Independent Director and is available to 
shareholders, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, if they have concerns that contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial 
Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
25
Non-executive Directors 
The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its 
Board. The Board considers David Newlands, John Biles, David 
Lindsell and Tim Hancock to be independent as they are free from 
any business or other relationship which could materially influence 
their judgement and they represent a strong source of advice and 
independent challenge. Alex Moss was appointed as a Non-
executive Director on 19 February 2013. Alex is a representative of 
Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited and is, therefore, not 
regarded as independent. 
Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 41, the 
Chairman and Non-executive Directors received no remuneration 
from the Company during the year . When Non-executive Directors 
are considered for appointment, the Nominations Committee will 
take into account their other responsibilities in assessing whether 
they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship. 
T raining and information 
All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers 
circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at 
the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous 
meetings. Their understanding of the Group’ s business is enhanced 
by business specific presentations and operational visits to the 
Company’ s businesses. Separate strategy meetings and meetings 
with senior executives are also held throughout the year . The 
training needs of Directors and of members of the Board’ s 
committees are formally considered on an annual basis and are 
also monitored throughout the year . 
Committees 
The Board has established Nominations, Audit and Remuneration 
committees. The memberships, roles and activities of these 
committees are detailed in separate reports: Nominations 
Committee on page 27, Audit Committee on pages 28 to 31 and 
Remuneration Committee on pages 32 to 45. Each Board 
Committee has written terms of reference approved by the Board. 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Company’ s Chief 
Executive and comprises the senior management team responsible 
for the day-to-day management of the business. These are the 
Chief Financial Officer; the Regional Managers of North America, 
South America, UK, EMEA and Asian; the Director of Sales & 
Marketing for EMEA; the Group Business Development Manager; 
the Managing Director of HT Data; and the Company Secretary & 
Group Legal Counsel. The remit of the Executive Committee is to 
support the Chief Executive and facilitate the flow of information 
across all areas of the business and, as such, there are no written 
terms of reference. 
Board effectiveness evaluation 
It was not considered appropriate to use an external evaluator in 
2013, the year of the IPO. Instead, the Board carried out an 
internal formal Board Governance Assessment, including a review 
of issues relating to the Board as a whole, the performance of 
the Chairman and the priority of tasks. 
The process included the completion of a questionnaire by 
Directors and included an opportunity for each Director to make 
comments. The areas covered in the questionnaire were the 
Board’ s role and its organisation, the Board dynamic and 
relationships, quality of information flows and decision making, 
Board committees, performance monitoring and the Board’ s 
priority tasks. The output was compiled into a report which was 
agreed with the Senior Independent Director , who led the 
evaluation process. The report was subsequently discussed by 
the Board. 
Independent advice 
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice 
in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary & Group Legal 
Counsel, the Company’ s legal advisers and external auditors. 
Internal control 
The Company’ s corporate governance process is designed to 
determine the nature and level of risk that the Group is willing to 
take in pursuit of its strategy and to ensure that any risks taken are 
carefully considered by managers and that the system of internal 
control is effective. The system of internal control includes clear 
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated 
authority . The Company has in place internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to the Company’ s financial 
reporting process and the Group’ s process for preparation 
of consolidated accounts. These systems include policies and 
procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately 
and fairly reflect transactions, provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU or UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and that require 
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate 
monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee. 
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the 
Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the 
normal management of the business, to monitor: 
• strategic plan achievement; 
• financial performance within a comprehensive financial 
planning, accounting and reporting framework; 
• capital investment and asset management performance, with 
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews; 
• customer data and actions to evolve brands and products to 
ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant; and 
• risk management, through an ongoing process of regular 
reports from the Group’ s senior managers, that the significant 
risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and 
appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, 
cost and opportunity . 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report continued 
 
26 
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: 
• reports from the Internal Audit Manager on the work carried 
out under the annual internal audit plan; and 
• reports from the external auditors. 
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board, 
through the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year 
ended 31 December 2013. The system of internal control is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In that context, the review, in the opinion 
of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or 
unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this 
status up to the approval of this Annual Report. 
Risk management/financial risk management 
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure 
against every risk to the fullest extent. The Group regularly reviews 
both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with 
guidance from an external independent body , bearing in mind the 
availability of such cover , its cost and the likelihood and magnitude 
of the risks involved. 
Shareholder relations 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the 
performance and activities of the Company . The Company 
formally updates the market on its financial performance at least 
four times a year , at the half-year and full-year results in August 
and March respectively and the interim management statements 
in May and November . The content of these updates is posted on 
the Company’ s investor relations website, together with general 
information about the Company so as to be available to all 
shareholders. The Company has a regular programme of meetings 
with its major institutional shareholders which provides an 
opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available 
information, the progress of the business. On a more informal 
basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer regularly report to the Board the views of major 
shareholders about the Company , and the Senior Independent 
Director and other Non-executive Directors are available to meet 
shareholders on request, and are offered the opportunity to attend 
meetings with major shareholders. 
Directors’ indemnity 
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
purchases and maintains Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover 
against certain legal liabilities and costs incurred by the Directors 
and Officers of the Group companies in the execution of their 
duties. The Company also granted an indemnity to each of its 
Directors in accordance with Section 232 of the Companies Act 
2006 in relation to the Directors’ exercise of their powers, duties 
and responsibilities as Directors of the Company , save to the extent 
that any such indemnity would be void under the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Corporate social responsibility 
HellermannT yton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour 
and the Board has established policies for the Group to ensure that 
it operates all aspects of the business in an ethical manner with 
consideration for employee health and safety , care for the 
environment and community involvement. These policies are set 
out in more detail on pages 19 to 21. 
Refinancing 
On 26 February 2014, the Company signed a new €230.0 million 
revolving credit facility at Euribor + 1.75% for a term of five years. 
The new facility replaces the Group’ s existing €220.0 million senior 
secured bonds (Euribor +5.125%) and an undrawn €80.0 million 
revolving credit facility . It is expected that €200.0 million of the 
new facility will be initially drawn down to repay the bonds with 
the balance of €20.0 million to be repaid using cash reserves. It is 
anticipated that the bonds will be repaid on 28 March 2014. 
The one-off costs of refinancing are €5.0 million, which includes 
the 1% redemption premium that will be paid to the bondholders.  
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by: 
David Newlands 
Chairman of the Board 
28 February 2014 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
Nominations Committee  
report 
 
27
Committee members 
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that a majority of 
the members of the Nominations Committee should be 
independent Non-executive Directors. The Nominations 
Committee comprises David Newlands, Tim Hancock, John Biles 
and David Lindsell, all of whom are considered by the Board to be 
independent Non-executive Directors. At the time of the IPO, 
David Newlands was appointed as the Chairman of the Board and 
also as Chairman of the Nominations Committee. However , David 
Newlands will not chair the Nominations Committee when it is 
dealing with the matter of succession to the chairmanship of the 
Company . The Company Secretary acts as Secretary of 
the Committee. 
Role 
On behalf of the Board, the Nominations Committee assists the 
Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition 
of the Board. The Committee is responsible for evaluating and 
reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, 
retirements and appointments of additional and replacement 
Directors, and will make appropriate recommendations to the 
Board on such matters. The Nominations Committee meets 
formally when appropriate. 
Meetings 
Following the IPO, and as the Board of Directors was newly 
appointed, there has been no need for the Committee to meet on 
a formal basis. Only members of the Committee have the right to 
attend the meetings. 
Effectiveness 
During this period in review, we have carried out an evaluation of 
the terms of reference and effectiveness of the Committee 
conducted via an internal evaluation process. This process 
concluded that the Committee was effective in terms of its 
expertise and use of time and that it had been provided with 
sufficient resources to carry out its duties. Succession planning and 
management development have been agreed as the priorities for 
2014. 
David Newlands 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
28 February 2014 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit Committee report 
 
28 
Membership 
The members of the Audit Committee are John Biles (Chairman), 
David Lindsell and Tim Hancock, all of whom are independent 
Non-executive Directors.  
I have been Chairman of the Audit Committee since I was 
appointed as a Director of the Company on 22 February 2013. 
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial 
experience as I qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price 
Waterhouse & Co, served as a PLC Finance Director and have 
chaired the Audit Committee of several PLCs. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary of the Committee. 
Key objectives 
Our Committee’ s objective is to provide effective governance 
over the appropriateness of the Group’ s financial reporting, 
including the adequacy of related disclosures, the management 
and oversight of the Group’ s system of internal control and 
business risks, and the performance of internal audit and the 
external auditors. 
Role and responsibilities 
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and its 
terms of reference were approved at the time of the IPO, and have 
been reviewed since then to ensure that they continue to meet 
best practice, and include all matters required by the Disclosure 
and T ransparency Rules and the Code. The Committee’ s principal 
responsibilities include: 
• monitoring the integrity and form and content of the 
financial statements including interim and annual reports, 
interim management statements, final and half-year results 
announcements and any other formal announcements 
relating to financial performance; 
• reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting 
policies and practices; 
• advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair , 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’ s strategy , 
business model and performance; 
• reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal control and 
management of risk, including approving statements 
concerning internal control and risk management in the Annual 
Report and Accounts; 
• overseeing the relationships with the external auditors; 
• making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
external auditors’ appointment, reappointment and removal at 
the AGM and setting and approving policy on the engagement 
of the external auditors for non-audit work; and 
• assessing the performance and reviewing the scope, results and 
effectiveness of internal audit. 
Committee meetings 
The Committee met three times in 2013 and twice in February 
2014 and all members attended all meetings. We also invited the 
Chairman, the non-independent Non-executive Director , Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer , Business Development Manager , 
Group Finance Manager and Internal Audit Manager to attend all 
meetings. Other appropriate people from the Group are also 
invited to attend certain meetings to provide a deeper level of 
insight into certain key issues. I also invited our external auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , to each meeting. The Committee 
met separately with the Internal Audit Manager and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers without management being present, 
after the end of most meetings. 
The Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors have direct 
access to me as Chairman of the Committee and I had preparatory 
meetings with them prior to Committee meetings to review their 
reports and discuss issues in detail. 
Main activities of the Committee during the year 
As part of the process of working with the Board to carry out 
its responsibilities and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of 
the Committee generally take place just prior to Board meetings. 
I report to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the 
activities of the Committee and matters of relevance. 
At its meetings, the Committee focused on the following 
main areas: 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
29
Financial reporting 
The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting 
has been to review with management and the external auditors, 
the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements 
concentrating on, amongst other matters: 
• the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices; 
• material areas where significant judgements have been applied 
or there has been a significant discussion with the external 
auditors; 
• the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements; and 
• whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair , balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’ s strategy , 
business model and performance. 
Reports from management were considered on significant matters 
and also reports from the external auditors on the outcome of 
their reviews. We challenged PricewaterhouseCoopers to ensure 
that they had applied the necessary level of professional scepticism 
in their work. 
The principal areas of judgement considered by us in relation to 
the 2013 accounts were as follows: 
• Recoverability of debtors and inventory (see Notes 10 and 11 
to the financial statements) 
We received reports on the ageing of trade debtor balances 
outstanding and reviewed subsequent collections, payment 
history and the historical levels of provisioning and were satisfied 
that provisions were calculated on a basis consistent with prior 
years, took account of known problems with customers and are 
adequate. We received a report on inventories which confirmed 
the calculation of provisions for obsolete stock lines and any lines 
where holdings appeared excessive. The basis of calculating 
inventory provisions is consistent with previous years and, based 
on historic usage patterns, provisions are considered adequate; 
• Going concern 
The validity of the going concern assumption used in 
preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed 
in detail. Appropriate downside sensitivity analysis has been 
applied to assumptions used in calculating the net debt profile, 
committed facility headroom and financial covenants. There is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence and 
• Accounting policies and management representation 
The Committee approved the Group’ s accounting policies and 
also approved the representations made by management to the 
external auditors. 
Risk management 
Senior management are responsible for ensuring that risk 
management is integrated into all operations and functions. 
The Group’ s risk assessment process and the way that significant 
business risks are managed and mitigated are key areas of focus 
for the Committee in each meeting. Our work on risk was driven 
by the Group’ s assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as 
set out in the Prospectus and on pages 17 and18. At the last two 
meetings, we reviewed a report from the Internal Audit Manager , 
who has primary responsibility for overseeing the implementation 
of the Group’ s risk management framework, which included 
commentary on any changes to significant risks and mitigating 
actions compared with those identified in the Prospectus. 
In the second half of the year, an exercise was undertaken to 
standardise risk reporting throughout the Group and an updated 
policy document was circulated to manufacturing operations. 
The Group risk register (the register) provides a consistent method 
for managing and reporting risks across the Group and ensures 
that significant risks are understood and visible to divisional and 
Group management, as well as to the Board. The register sets out 
the top risks as identified by divisional and corporate management. 
The Internal Audit Manager discussed risk with the local Managing 
Directors and prioritised the top risks according to likelihood of 
occurrence and impact on performance, assets and the Group’ s 
objectives. The register , which also sets out mitigating controls and 
actions and identifies management responsible for each risk, is 
reviewed and assessed twice each year by the Board and 
Committee. 
Internal control 
Reports were received from PricewaterhouseCoopers on the 
Group’ s internal control environment at the time of the IPO. 
Changes and improvements to internal control are being reviewed 
as they are made. 
The Group’ s internal control framework is based on management’ s 
assessment of risk. Effectiveness of internal control is monitored by 
self-certification by local management, management oversight and 
independent review by Internal Audit. 
The Committee also reviewed the arrangement which enables 
employees to raise any concerns they may have, in confidence, 
about possible wrongdoing, dishonest or unethical behaviour . A 
whistle-blowing policy is in place for this purpose and the Code of 
Conduct protects anyone who comes forward to make such 
a disclosure. Should any disclosures be made, the Internal Audit 
Manager , in consultation with me, will decide on the appropriate 
method and level of investigation. The Committee is notified of all 
disclosures, results of investigations and actions taken and has the 
power to conduct further enquiries itself or order additional actions 
as it sees fit. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit Committee report continued 
 
30 
Internal audit 
The Internal Audit Manager was recruited in August 2013 and 
has presented reports to the last two meetings of the Committee. 
An audit programme for the last two months of 2013 and for 
2014 was presented to the Committee and approved. Points 
arising from audits completed and follow-up action plans to 
address areas of weakness were presented to the Committee 
meeting in February 2014 and reviewed by the Committee. 
External audit 
At the July and November meetings, the external auditors 
presented their audit plans for the interim review and annual audit 
respectively . These plans were discussed with the external auditors 
and changes from the previous year’ s scope were agreed. 
The effectiveness of the external audit process depends on 
appropriate risk identification at the start of the cycle which was 
reviewed as part of the planning process. The principal risks 
identified for 2013 were in relation to revenue recognition, 
management override of controls and provisions against debtors 
and inventory . 
Following completion of the audit, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
confirmed that no additional matters had arisen during the audit 
which required them to alter their planned procedures. The 
Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process based 
on its interaction with the external auditors and by obtaining 
feedback from management on the effectiveness of the process, 
which is referred to later in this report. For 2013, management 
was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge 
on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the 
audit process to be good. The Committee agreed with this view. 
T raining 
At each meeting, a paper is presented on any new accounting 
developments and any changes in corporate governance 
requirements that may affect the Group. I and the members of the 
Committee also attend external training sessions given by the big 
four firms of auditors and other advisers. 
Fair , balanced and understandable overview 
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, 
taken as a whole, in the light of their knowledge of the Group and 
its performance and has concluded that it is fair , balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’ s strategy , business model and 
performance, and reported to the Board accordingly . 
External audit 
 
Appointment 
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external 
auditors each year and, as part of this process, considers the 
independence of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit 
process. Further information on these aspects is given below. 
Having reviewed the performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers in 
2013, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Board 
that PricewaterhouseCoopers be reappointed for the 2014 audit 
and a resolution to this effect will be put to the 2014 AGM. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner 
every five years and other partners periodically in order to protect 
independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the 
Group. The current lead partner , Mrs Rosemary Shapland, has 
been in place for four years.  
Fees 
In respect of the audit for 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
its international member firms charged the Group £761,000 
(2012: £562,000) for audit and audit-related services. The 
Committee approved the fees for 2013 after considering the 
increased scope of the work this year and being satisfied by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers that the level of fees was appropriate 
for the amount of work required. 
Non-audit services 
The Committee regularly monitored and approved the services 
provided to the Group by PricewaterhouseCoopers and has 
established a policy and pre-approval requirement for the provision 
of non-audit services to ensure that there is no impairment of 
objectivity and independence. For this purpose, auditing the 
accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation and 
other services provided pursuant to the legislation are regarded as 
audit services. The pre-approval requirement is subject to annual 
review by the Committee. 
The external auditors are invited to provide services where their 
position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the 
work. In 2013, this included all work required in connection with 
the Prospectus and other documentation connected with the IPO 
and reporting and certification connected with borrowings and 
circulars to shareholders. For other non-audit services, any contract 
in excess of €20,000 must be approved by me and any individual 
engagement over €250,000 must be approved by the Committee. 
T ax and general accounting work, especially where 
PricewaterhouseCoopers could end up auditing its own work or 
where any other conflict could arise, is not awarded to the external 
auditors and is put out to tender . Valuation, accounting services 
and some tax and advisory work is not permitted to be done by 
the external auditors. There are no contractual restrictions on who 
the Committee can choose as external auditors. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
31
In addition to the audit fee, PricewaterhouseCoopers and its 
member firms charged the Group during 2013 one-off fees of 
€1,134,000 for reporting accountant work for the Prospectus 
and IPO and €426,156 for benchmarking, tax clearances and 
implementation of L TIPs and Global Share Plans. These items of 
work were approved before the IPO and it was considered that 
the external auditors were best placed to do this work in the time 
available in view of their extensive knowledge of the Group and 
the need to avoid having to brief and control other advisers. In 
addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers charged the Group €160,000 
for other audit-related assurance services and €147,000 for the 
tax support and advisory work. 
Further details of fees are shown in note 18 on page 79. The fees 
for non-audit services amounted to 245% of the audit fee but 
without the IPO and benchmarking-related work would have 
been 40% of the audit fee. 
Independence 
The independence of the external auditors is confirmed 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers each half year and was last 
confirmed in February 2014. The Committee considered 
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ presentation and confirmed that 
it considered the auditors to be independent. 
Internal audit 
The Internal Audit Manager reports to the Audit Committee 
and for administrative purposes to the Chief Financial Officer . 
The Internal Audit Manager will use additional external resource 
as necessary to complete the agreed programme of work and 
provides assurance over the key financial processes and controls 
in operation across the Group, upon which management places 
reliance in its mitigation of risk. 
An annual internal audit plan was reviewed and approved by the 
Committee covering the last two months of 2013 and all of 2014. 
This plan took account of the Group’ s strategic objectives and risks 
and provides the degree of coverage deemed appropriate by the 
Committee. All manufacturing locations will be visited at least 
every two years and sales operations every five years. 
Internal audit reports include control weaknesses identified, 
recommendations for improvement and the agreed management 
actions to improve control. Actions are then monitored 
until completed. 
The effectiveness of Internal Audit will be reviewed and discussed 
annually with the Internal Audit Manager and in the few months 
since it commenced, operation has been reviewed and assessed 
as effective. 
Effectiveness of the external audit process 
The effectiveness of the external audit process for 2013 was 
evaluated, taking into account the views of relevant senior 
management and the Committee members. The conclusion 
of the evaluation was that the process was effective. We have 
considered the FRC Audit Quality Review T eam report on 
PricewaterhouseCoopers dated May 2013. If our audit is selected 
for quality review, we have asked to see any resulting reports. 
Committee evaluation 
The Committee’ s activities were reviewed as part of the review of 
Board effectiveness which was done internally this year . Based on 
this and as a result of the work done during the year , the 
Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its 
terms of reference and carried out its responsibilities effectively . 
John Biles 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
28 February 2014 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report 
 
32 
Chairman’s annual statement 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 
present my first Directors’ remuneration report for 
HellermannT yton.  
HellermannT yton’ s remuneration policy was outlined in the IPO 
Prospectus and has remained unchanged since the Company listed 
on the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013. The Group has 
a dedicated and talented senior management team with 
significant experience and understanding of their respective 
markets and regions, and the Remuneration Committee (“the 
Committee”) is focused on adopting a remuneration policy (“the 
policy”) that provides appropriate incentives to enhance the 
Group’ s performance and rewards executives for their personal 
contribution to the success of the business. 
At the time of listing, executive reward was closely scrutinised to 
ensure that remuneration arrangements appropriately reflected the 
Company’ s status. This was achieved through benchmarking of 
the Directors’ and senior managers' remuneration packages 
against a range of relevant UK listed companies comparable to 
HellermannT yton in size and complexity . Salary , pension, benefits 
and bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors were 
established, and the 2013 Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) and the 
Global Share Plan (GSP) have been implemented on the basis 
described in the IPO Prospectus. This included setting the 
performance targets for the annual bonus plan, establishing policy 
and making awards under the L TIP subject to performance targets, 
issuing free shares under the GSP and initiating arrangements for 
employees to purchase shares that may attract awards of 
matching shares after a holding period of three years. 
Remuneration for Executive Directors in 2013 reflects a strong 
set of results. HellermannT yton’ s sales revenue and underlying 
EBITA increased by 11.1% and 11.8% respectively in 2013 in 
constant currency terms. This was a strong performance against 
Group targets and is reflected in the annual bonus that has been 
awarded to its Executive Directors for the period ended 
31 December 2013, as explained in detail later in this report. 
The Chairman’ s fee and the Non-executive Directors’ fees were 
determined by the Board at the time of their appointment and will 
in future be determined in accordance with the policy set out in 
the Directors’ remuneration policy report on page 37. 
New regulations governing the content of Directors’ remuneration 
reports came into force as from 1 October 2013. In line with these 
new requirements, this report is divided into three sections: 
• this Annual Statement; 
• the Directors’ remuneration policy report, which it is proposed 
should apply from the 2014 AGM and which details 
HellermannT yton’ s Executive and Non-executive Director 
remuneration policies. It explains the components of Executive 
Director remuneration and how the arrangements support the 
Company’ s strategic objectives of profitable growth and 
sustained, increased shareholder value, and also includes 
projected pay outcomes under different performance scenarios; 
and 
• the annual report on remuneration, which focuses on the 
remuneration arrangements and outcomes for 2013, and how 
the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2014. 
Under the new reporting arrangements, the Directors’ 
remuneration report will be subject to two votes at our 2014 
AGM: the policy report will be put to a binding vote, and the 
annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory vote.  
I hope this report outlines in a clear and understandable manner 
how decisions about HellermannT yton’ s Executive Director and 
Non-executive Director remuneration are made, how overall 
packages are structured and how the Executive Director reward 
opportunities will support successful execution of the Group’ s 
strategy in the years to come. I welcome any comments 
shareholders may have. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 February 2014  
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
33
Policy report 
 
Directors’ remuneration policy  
The Committee’ s primary objective is to ensure that reward 
packages for Executive Directors are competitive in order to 
attract and retain the best talent, and are directly linked to the 
achievement of performance targets. In order to ensure that these 
objectives continue to be met, the Committee will review the 
policy annually for continued appropriateness and relevance, but 
at the present time no changes are anticipated. 
The Company’ s policy on executive remuneration is that the 
Remuneration Committee should satisfy itself that Executive 
Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the 
Group’ s performance. The Committee seeks to ensure that they 
receive a level of remuneration that is appropriate to their scale of 
responsibility and performance and that Directors’ remuneration 
arrangements will attract, motivate and retain individuals of the 
necessary calibre. 
The Committee believes it is important that executive 
remuneration is weighted to reward entrepreneurial achievement 
and the creation of shareholder value over time: exceptional 
achievement in terms of longer-term shareholder value creation 
should attract upper quartile levels of remuneration, whilst 
below-average value creation should result in much more modest 
levels of remuneration. With this in mind, remuneration for the 
Executive Directors is structured around six main components: 
base salary , pension, taxable benefits, annual performance bonus, 
the long term incentive plan and all-employee share plans.  
The Committee endeavours to ensure that remuneration policy is 
consistent with sound corporate governance and in accordance 
with the guidance of institutional shareholder bodies such as the 
Association of British Insurers. 
In addition to reviewing and approving the remuneration of 
Executive Directors and the remuneration arrangements for the 
Group’ s senior managers, the Committee administers the 
Company’ s share incentive plans. The Committee also determines 
the Chairman’ s remuneration, although the Board itself determines 
the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors. No Director is 
involved in determining his own remuneration. 
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for 
Executive and Non-executive Directors which shareholders are 
asked to approve at the 2014 AGM. The Committee intends to 
bring this policy into effect formally from 30 April 2014 (the date 
of the 2014 AGM). 
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
The table below summarises the key components of remuneration package for Executive Directors: 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation  Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary  
T o provide an appropriate 
level of salary to support 
recruitment and retention, 
with due regard to the 
individual’ s responsibilities 
and experience. 
 
• T ypically reviewed annually 
by the Committee with any 
changes taking effect on 
1 April. 
• When setting the Executive 
Directors’ base salaries, the 
Committee considers a range 
of factors, including: 
– salary levels for similar jobs 
in relevant UK listed 
companies comparable to 
HellermannT yton in size 
and complexity; 
– personal performance 
and experience;  
– the individual’ s role within 
the Group and level 
of responsibility; 
– the balance between fixed 
and variable reward; and 
– relative remuneration levels 
throughout the Group. 
 
• Base salary increases are 
applied in line with the 
outcome of the annual review. 
• Salary increases for Executive 
Directors will not normally 
exceed those of the wider 
workforce over the term of 
this policy . Increases may be 
above this level if there is an 
increase in the scale, scope, 
market comparability or 
responsibilities of the role. 
Where increases are awarded 
in excess of the wider 
employee population, the 
Committee will explain its 
rationale in the relevant year’ s 
annual report on 
remuneration. 
 
Not applicable. 
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
34 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Pension 
T o provide a competitive 
pension provision. 
 
• Executive Directors are 
eligible to participate in 
one of the Group’ s defined 
contribution pension plans. 
The pensionable element 
of Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is capped 
and this applies whether or 
not an executive is a member 
of one of the defined 
contribution pension plans 
or has a personal 
pension arrangement. 
 
• Company contribution of up 
to 21% of salary and 
pensionable bonus capped at 
10% of salary . Contribution 
percentage of salary may be 
exceeded in exceptional 
circumstances 
(e.g. recruitment). 
 
Not applicable. 
T axable benefits  
T o provide benefits that 
are competitive. 
 
• The Executive Directors receive 
a range of benefits including: 
– private health insurance; 
– income protection scheme; 
– life assurance; and 
– company car or 
car allowance. 
Where appropriate, other 
benefits may be offered 
including, but not limited to, 
allowances for relocation. 
 
• Benefits vary by role and 
individual circumstance, and 
are reviewed periodically to 
ensure they remain 
appropriate. 
 
Not applicable. 
 
Annual bonus  
T o motivate and reward 
executives’ personal and 
collective achievements. 
 
• Performance is based on 
annual targets for each 
financial year . 
• Performance measures and 
targets are set at the start 
of each financial year to be 
consistent with business 
priorities for the period. 
• At the end of the year, the 
Committee determines the 
extent to which these 
were achieved. 
• Awards are paid in cash.  
• Payment of 30% of the bonus 
may be deferred for up to 
three years. 
 
• The annual bonus provides for 
awards of up to 100% of base 
salary per annum.  
• Bonus for on-target 
performance is 45% of salary.
 
• Performance is based 
on Group targets. 
• Group performance measures 
will include, but may not be 
limited to, adjusted underlying 
earnings before interest, tax 
and amortisation (EBITA) and 
sales.  
• A bonus award may be 
clawed back at any time 
within 12 months after 
payment if the measures on 
which the bonus award is 
based are misstated or in the 
event of gross misconduct. 
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
35
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Long T erm Incentive 
Plan (L TIP) 
T o incentivise and reward 
long-term performance 
and to support alignment 
with shareholders through 
relative stock market 
out performance. 
 
• The Committee may grant 
annual L TIP awards.  
• Awards are granted in the 
form of performance shares 
or nominal cost options 
which vest after three years 
subject to achievement of 
performance conditions and 
continued employment. 
• Performance periods are 
three years. 
• Ahead of each grant, the 
performance measures and 
targets are reviewed by the 
Committee to ensure they 
remain appropriate. 
• Dividends may accrue on L TIP 
awards and be paid on those 
shares that vest. 
 
• Awards may be granted each 
year of up to 200% of salary . 
• At threshold performance, 
25% of the award is payable. 
• Awards vest subject to three-
year earnings per share (EPS) 
growth and three-year relative 
total shareholder return (TSR), 
each equally weighted. 
• Relative TSR is measured 
against the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts). 
Ahead of each performance 
cycle, the Committee may 
review and adjust the TSR 
comparator group for future 
cycles to ensure it remains 
relevant to HellermannT yton. 
• Before finalising the amounts 
of long-term incentives that 
will vest, the Committee may 
also consider underlying 
performance and, if 
appropriate, reduce the level 
of vesting. 
• Awards vesting under the L TIP 
are subject to clawback at any 
time within 12 months after 
the date of vesting if the 
measures on which the award 
is based are misstated or in the 
event of gross misconduct. 
Global Share Plan (GSP) 
T o reward loyalty to the 
Company , encourage share 
ownership and align their 
interests with those of 
shareholders. 
 
• An HMRC approved scheme 
under which employees are 
invited to make contributions 
to buy partnership shares 
using gross pay . If an employee 
agrees to buy partnership 
shares, the Company currently 
matches the number of 
partnership shares with 
‘matching shares’ up to a 
certain level, subject to 
continued employment for 
three years.  
• Dividends accrue on 
investment and matching 
shares and are automatically 
reinvested. 
 
• Executive Directors can 
purchase HellermannT yton 
shares up to the HMRC 
permitted allowance, which 
are then subject to a 
maximum ‘match’ in line with 
HMRC rules. 
 
• The vesting of matching 
shares is usually subject to 
continued employment 
and, at the Committee’ s 
discretion, may be subject to 
performance targets. The 
matching shares may also be 
subject to a holding period. 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
36 
Notes to the policy table 
 
Global Share Plan 
Free share awards were offered to Executive Directors under the GSP on the Company’ s admission to the London Stock Exchange, as 
proposed in the IPO Prospectus. The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer each received 214 free shares, based on their length of 
service, which will vest in three years subject to continued employment. It is intended that only purchased and matching shares under the 
GSP will be offered to Executive Directors on a regular basis. 
Pension payments under past policy 
Under arrangements entered into many years ago, the Chief Executive receives a fixed pension allowance of £15,500 per year. He is also 
entitled to a lump sum on his retirement as a Director of HellermannT yton Co. Ltd (Japan), calculated by reference to his length of service 
and his monthly remuneration from that company at the time of his retirement, and to which a supplement of 30% may be added at 
the discretion of HellermannT yton Co. Ltd (Japan). The estimated value of the benefit of this arrangement accruing during 2013 was 
£10,477 and is funded out of the 21% contribution referred to in the table above. It is not intended to grant these pension 
arrangements to any future Executive Director . 
Performance measurement selection 
Executive Directors participate in the annual bonus plan and the 
L TIP . These plans are designed to incentivise and to provide reward 
for the achievement of demanding financial and business-
related objectives.  
The aim of the annual bonus plan is to reward key executives over 
and above fixed pay for the achievement of business objectives. The 
bonus criteria are designed to encourage continuous performance 
improvement by the Group. Group financial performance targets 
relating to the annual bonus plan are set from the Company’ s 
annual budget, which is reviewed and approved by the Board prior 
to the start of each financial year . Adjusted underlying EBIT A and 
sales revenue are used as key performance indicators for the annual 
bonus plan because they provide clear line-of-sight to the underlying 
financial performance of the Group.  
Long-term, share based incentives are designed to align the 
interests of Executive Directors with the longer-term interests of 
the Company’ s shareholders by rewarding them for delivering 
sustained, increased shareholder value. Accordingly , the vesting of 
L TIP share awards is linked to growth in the Company’ s EPS and 
TSR. For the L TIP , performance measures and targets are reviewed 
by the Committee ahead of each grant and must be considered by 
the Committee to be challenging but achievable.  
Remuneration policy for other employees 
HellermannT yton’ s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent 
across the Group. Key senior managers are eligible to participate in 
the annual bonus scheme, with targets appropriate to 
organisational level and business area. Key senior managers are 
also eligible for consideration of L TIP awards to further support 
alignment with shareholder interests. L TIP performance conditions 
are consistent for these employees, while award opportunities may 
vary by organisational level or business area.  
Shareholding guidelines 
The Executive Directors are subject to a 360-day lock-up period 
following the Company’ s listing on 2 April 2013, during which time 
they may not dispose of any interest in their shares, such 
arrangements being subject to certain exceptions that are usual in an 
agreement of this nature.  
Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a holding of 
shares equal in value to their base salaries. They are expected to 
build up the required shareholding by the fifth anniversary of their 
joining the Board and are required to retain 50% of the net of 
tax vested awards under the L TIP until this guideline is met.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
37
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
The table below summarises the Company’ s remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.  
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation  Opportunity Performance metrics
Fees 
Provide competitive 
remuneration to attract and 
retain Directors of the 
necessary calibre. 
 • Chairman and Non-executive 
Directors (other than the 
Director nominated by 
Doughty Hanson & Co 
Managers Limited, who 
receives no fee) receive a basic 
fee for their respective roles. 
Additional fees are paid for 
chairing a Board Committee 
and for the position of Senior 
Independent Director. 
• Fees are typically reviewed 
every two years with reference 
to fee levels at a range of 
relevant UK listed 
companies comparable to 
HellermannT yton in size 
and complexity and take 
into account the time 
commitment required and 
responsibilities assumed. 
• The Chairman’ s fee is 
determined by the Committee 
and the other Non-executive 
Directors’ fees are determined 
by the Board. 
• The Chairman and Non-
executive Directors do not 
participate in the Company’ s 
incentive or share schemes. 
 
• Fee increases are applied in 
line with the outcome of the 
annual review.  
 Not applicable. 
Note: Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited, Doughty Hanson is entitled to nominate one Non-executive 
Director of the Company at any time for so long as it holds 10% of the Company’ s shares.  
Pay scenario charts  
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors, 
and the potential split between different elements of remuneration under three different scenarios: “Minimum”, “T arget” and 
“Maximum” performance. 
 
   
£867
£525
£1,543
Key
LTI   
STI  
Pension  
Fixed  
28%
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
£’000
11%
17%
21%
50%
17%
83%
6%
39%
26%
Minimum Target Maximum
Steve Salmon, Chief Executive
£563
£330
£1,026
Key
LTI   
STI  
Pension  
Fixed  
28%
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
£’000
9%
18%
22%
51%
13%
87%
5%
40%
27%
Minimum Target Maximum
Tim Jones, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
38 
Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table below. The projected value of the L TIP excludes the impact of 
share price growth and dividend accrual. Actual pay delivered, however , will be influenced by these factors. 
 Minimum Target Maximum 
Fixed Includes: Base salary – latest known salary (effective from 1 April 2014)  
 Benefits – as per the single figure for 2013 disclosed in the annual report on remuneration. 
Pension For Steve Salmon, 16% of salary 
plus lump sum allowance and the 
estimated value of the benefit of 
the retirement lump sum 
entitlement accruing during 2013. 
For Steve Salmon, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also 
includes pensionable bonus (capped at 10% of salary) plus lump sum 
allowance and the estimated value of the benefit of the retirement lump sum 
entitlement accruing during 2013. 
For Tim Jones, 16% of salary. For Tim Jones, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also includes 
pensionable bonus (capped at 10% of salary). 
Annual bonus None. 45% of salary.  100% of salary.  
L TIP No vesting. 25% of award at 150% of salary.  100% of award at 150% of salary.  
Note: L TIP opportunity of 150% is based on opportunity of L TIP awards expected to be granted in 2014. 
Approach to recruitment remuneration 
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director , the Committee may make use of any or all of the existing components of 
remuneration, as follows: 
Component Approach Maximum value 
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined 
by reference to the individual’ s role and responsibilities, 
experience and skills, relevant market data, internal 
relativities and their current base salary. 
 
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in a Group 
pension plan in line with the policy. 
 
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line 
with the policy. 
 
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy will apply to new 
appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to 
reflect the proportion of employment over the year . T argets 
for the personal element will be tailored to the executive. 
Up to 100% of salary per annum. 
L TIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the L TIP 
which will normally be on the same terms as other 
Executive Directors, as described in the policy.  
Up to 200% of salary per annum. 
GSP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the GSP 
in line with the policy. 
 
  
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive 
Director , the Committee will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration and the 
jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that 
the pay arrangements are in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders.  
The Committee may consider it appropriate to “buy out” incentive 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer using the 
existing elements of the remuneration policy or may make use of 
Listing Rule 9.4.2 R to do this. In doing so, the Committee will 
ensure the award will not exceed the fair value of the awards 
forfeited, using a Black-Scholes or equivalent valuation and, where 
applicable, taking into account the toughness of performance 
conditions attached to the forfeited awards and the likelihood of 
those conditions being met.  
 
When a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal 
promotion, the Remuneration Committee will determine their 
remuneration on a basis that is consistent with the policy for 
external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has 
contractual commitments made prior to his or her appointment as 
an Executive Director , the Company will continue to honour these 
arrangements.  
When appointing a new Non-executive Director , the Committee 
will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 37.  
Policy on external appointments 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept non-executive director 
appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received 
provided that the Board’ s approval is obtained.   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
39
Service contracts 
Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the 
Company which came into effect on 2 April 2013 and which can 
be terminated by the Executive Director on six months’ written 
notice and by the Company on 12 months’ written notice. Upon 
leaving service at the request of the Company (other than for gross 
misconduct), the Executive Director is entitled to receive predetermined 
compensation equivalent to 12 months’ base salary , pension 
contributions (or amounts in lieu thereof) and taxable benefits and, 
in the case of bonus entitlement, the Director will not normally be 
entitled to any bonus for the year in which he leaves the Company 
but will be entitled to any accrued but unpaid entitlement in 
respect of the previous financial year and any bonus in respect of 
previous years the payment of which was deferred. In the event of 
redundancy , each of the Executive Directors is additionally entitled 
to redundancy pay of 1.5 weeks’ pay for each complete year of 
service over the age of 40 and one week’ s pay for every complete 
year of service between age 18 to 40 inclusive, plus an ex-gratia 
payment of £250 for each complete year of service. In the event of 
termination by the Company other than for breach of contract, or 
by the individual due to retirement a payment of £47,987 will be 
made to Steve Salmon and a payment of £8,763 will be made to 
Tim Jones equivalent to the aggregate amounts by which each of 
their remuneration has been reduced to February 2013 under a 
temporary pay reduction scheme for senior employees. The 
scheme was suspended on 31 March 2013 and whilst it may be 
reinstituted in the future there is no current plan to do so. 
In the event of a change of control of the Company , the Executive 
Director must be offered employment by the Company’ s successor 
or by any company in the Group on terms in all respects no less 
favourable than those applicable immediately prior to such change 
of control. If the Executive Director declines this offer , then the 
Company is entitled to terminate his contract either by giving 
12 months’ notice or by payment of the remuneration entitlement 
for the notice period. 
The Chairman and each independent Non-executive Director is 
appointed for a term of two years. This term may be extended by 
the Board upon recommendation of the Nominations Committee, 
and the appointment can be terminated by either party on one 
month’ s notice. Non-executive Directors are also subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM. All of the current independent Non-
executive Directors were appointed on 22 February 2013. As 
explained on page 37, Doughty Hanson is entitled to nominate one 
Director of the Company at any time for so long as it holds 10% of 
the Company’ s shares. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts and the Chairman’ s and 
independent Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are 
available to view at the Company’ s registered office.  
Exit payment policy and change of control provisions 
The Company’ s policy is to limit any payment made to a departing 
Director to contractual arrangements and to honour any pre-established 
commitments. As part of this process, the Committee will take into 
consideration the Executive Director’ s duty to mitigate their loss. 
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual 
bonus, L TIP and GSP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios 
and on a change of control. Whilst the Board retains overall 
discretion on determining “good leaver” status, it typically defines a 
“good leaver” in circumstances such as retirement with the consent 
of the company , injury , ill-health or disability , death, redundancy , if 
the part of the business in which the individual is employed or 
engaged ceases to be part of the Group, or any other reason as the 
Board decides. Final treatment is subject to the Board’ s discretion.  
Event Timing of vesting/award Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus 
“Good leaver” Paid at the same time as 
continuing employees. 
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied 
and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served.
“Bad leaver”  No annual bonus payable. Not applicable. 
Change of control Paid immediately on the effective date 
of change of control. 
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied 
up to the change of control and the award is pro-rated for the 
proportion of the financial year served to the effective date of change of 
control. 
LTIP 
“Good leaver” In the event of the death of a participant, 
the award would vest immediately . For 
other good leavers, awards vest 
immediately unless decided otherwise by 
the Board.  
In the event of the death of a participant during the performance period, 
the award would vest in full. For other good leavers, outstanding awards 
vest to the extent the performance conditions are satisfied and the 
awards are pro-rated to reflect the length of the vesting period served 
unless the Board decides otherwise.  
“Bad leaver”  Outstanding awards are forfeited.  Not applicable. 
Change of control Vest immediately on the effective date 
of change of control unless the Board 
decides otherwise. 
Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction of performance 
conditions as at the effective date of change of control, and the award is 
pro-rated for the proportion of the vesting period served to the effective 
date of change of control unless the Board decides otherwise. 
Notes:  
1. Any bonus from previous years the payment of which was deferred would be paid to a leaver regardless of status and on a change of control. 
2. Upon exit or change of control, GSP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
40 
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company 
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the 
pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. In 
particular , the Committee considers the range of base pay 
increases across the Group as a factor in determining the base 
salary increases for Executive Directors. Further , the Committee 
regularly reviews the remuneration structure and pay proposals for 
senior managers, and approves the structure and targets for their 
bonus plans. It also oversees any major changes in employee 
benefit structures.  
The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over 
the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy 
and framework although, as members of the Board, the 
Committee receives updates from the Executive Directors on their 
discussions and consultations with employees. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Company is sensitive to the views of shareholders and intends 
to engage regularly with investors following results 
announcements. The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback 
on any issue related to Directors’ remuneration and will take into 
account all feedback received from the AGM. 
Annual Report on remuneration 
This section provides details of how the remuneration policy was 
implemented during 2013 and how the Committee intends to 
apply the policy in 2014. 
The following parts of this section are audited: the single total 
figure of remuneration for Directors, including annual bonus for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2013; L TIP awards made 
during the year; Directors’ pension arrangements; and Directors’ 
shareholdings and share interests.  
Remuneration Committee 
 
Composition 
During the year , the Remuneration Committee was chaired by 
David Lindsell and its other members were David Newlands, Tim 
Hancock and John Biles. The Company Secretary acted as 
Secretary to the Committee. The Chief Executive attended 
Committee meetings as appropriate to provide advice on matters 
such as senior management remuneration. No Director was 
present when his own remuneration was being discussed. 
Meetings 
The Committee had one scheduled meeting during 2013 and has 
had three meetings to date in 2014. The attendance of the 
Committee members is shown on page 24.  
Activities 
During 2013, the Committee reviewed the remuneration structure 
to ensure it was appropriate for HellermannT yton as a listed 
company , as detailed in the IPO Prospectus. Salary , pension, 
benefits, bonus arrangements, the 2013 L TIP and the GSP were all 
established. As part of this process, the remuneration packages of 
the Executive Directors and senior managers were benchmarked 
against a range of relevant UK listed companies of comparable size 
and complexity to HellermannT yton. The Committee 
also established its terms of reference, particular consideration 
being given to ensuring that the terms reflect best practice and 
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
Committee evaluation 
The Board conducted a review of Committee effectiveness during 
the year and concluded that the Committee has acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its 
responsibilities effectively . 
Independent advice  
During the year , the Committee appointed Kepler Associates 
(“Kepler”) as its principal independent adviser . The Committee 
evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is 
satisfied that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice 
to the Committee and does not have any connections with 
HellermannT yton that may impair their independence. Kepler is 
a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at 
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During the year , 
Kepler provided advice on market and best practice for executive 
remuneration. No other services were provided by Kepler to the 
Group. The fees paid to Kepler for work carried out in 2013 for 
the Remuneration Committee were £2,410 based on time 
and materials. 
At the time of the IPO, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) 
provided advice to the Committee on general remuneration levels 
and comparator group benchmarking to support the Committee 
in its review of the remuneration structure. Following the IPO, PwC 
was retained for a transitional period until Kepler was appointed to 
provide advice on legal matters relating to remuneration and share 
plans and tax advice. The fees paid to PwC for work carried out in 
2013 for the Remuneration Committee were €426,156, based on 
time and materials. The Committee, being mindful of the fact that 
PwC are the Company’ s auditors and of the services provided by 
PwC in connection with the Company’ s listing, considered carefully 
whether the advice it received from PwC was objective and 
independent, and concluded that it was.  
Summary of shareholder voting  
HellermannT yton Group PLC was incorporated on 19 February 
2013 and the Company’ s first AGM will be held on 30 April 2014. 
Future Directors’ remuneration reports will include a statement 
detailing how shareholders voted at the previous AGM. 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
41
Single total figure of remuneration 
The Company was incorporated on 19 February 2013 and paid no Directors’ remuneration prior to the Company’ s listing on 2 April 
2013. However , in order to assist shareholders’ understanding, the table below includes the remuneration paid to the two Executive 
Directors by the previous holding company of the Group, HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l, for the whole of 2012 and the period from 
1 January 2013 until 2 April 2013. The Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in pounds Sterling as all Directors are resident in the UK 
and their salaries are denominated in pounds Sterling. 
 
Salary
1 
£’000 
T axable benefits
2 
£’000 
Annual bonus 
£’000 
Long-term
incentives
3 
£’000 
Pension 
£’000 
Other payments
4 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Steve Salmon 389 368 33 30 310 143 N/A N/A 91 82 nil N/A 823 623
Tim Jones 243 160 9 9 167 55 N/A N/A 42 28 nil N/A 461 252
Notes:  
1. Salaries from 1 April 2013 were £394,000 (£375,344 from 1 April 2012) for Steve Salmon, and £270,000 (£162,864 from 1 April 2012) for Tim Jones. Steve Salmon’ s salary in the table 
above includes £4,800 for 2013 and £15,233 for 2012 that has been deferred under a pay reduction scheme (See “Service contracts” on page 39). 
2. T axable value of benefits received in the year by Executives includes private health insurance, life assurance, income protection scheme, company car or car allowance.  
3. The first L TIP awards were granted in 2013 and therefore no L TIP awards vested in 2013.  
4. Each Executive Director was awarded 214 free shares on 2 April 2013 valued at £417 based on the share price of £1.95 at date of grant. 
The table below sets out a single figure for total remuneration for each Non-executive Director from the date of his appointment, 
22 February 2013, to 31 December 2013. 
 
Base fee 
£’000 
Additional fees 
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
David Newlands 115 N/A nil N/A 115 N/A
Tim Hancock 47 N/A 4 N/A 51 N/A
John Biles 47 N/A 4 N/A 51 N/A
David Lindsell 47 N/A 4 N/A 51 N/A
Alex Moss nil N/A nil N/A nil N/A
Notes: 
Annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors were: 
Chairman £135,000 
Non-executive Director £55,000 
Additional fee (Remuneration Committee Chairman) £5,000 
Additional fee (Audit Committee Chairman) £5,000 
Additional fee (Senior Independent Director) £5,000 
Graeme Stening was appointed a Director upon the Company’ s incorporation and resigned on 6 March 2013. He received no remuneration.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
42 
Annual bonus awarded for performance in 2013 
The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive Directors in 2013 was 100% of base salary . Bonus for on-target performance 
from 1 January to 31 March 2013 was 40% of base salary for Steve Salmon and 35% of base salary for Tim Jones, and from 1 April 
2013 was 45% for both of the Executive Directors. For any bonus to be earned, a threshold performance of 90% of the targets for both 
Group adjusted underlying EBITA and Group external sales was required to be achieved in the case of Steve Salmon and 85% in the case 
of Tim Jones, with additional bonus being earned pro-rata to performance above the threshold level in respect of those measures. The 
other measures, return on sales and compliance with financial covenants, are both performance hurdles rather than thresholds such that 
the full allocated bonus percentage would be awarded if the target or condition is achieved and no bonus is awarded if the target or 
condition is not achieved. 
The table below sets out the performance measures, their relative weightings, and achievements against specific targets for 2013.  
Steve Salmon 
Measure Target Threshold
Bonus % of current 
salary at target Actual performance 
Bonus % of current 
salary at actual 
performance
Group adjusted 
underlying EBITA
1
 €75.7 million 90% of target 30%/35%
2
107.9% of target
6
 65.5%
Group external sales €504.4 million 90% of target 5%
3
106.4% of target
6
 8.2%
Return on sales 14.53% Budget
4
 2.5% Higher than budget 2.5%
Compliance with 
financial covenants
5
  
Covenant 
compliance 2.5%
Covenant compliance 
achieved 2.5%
Notes:  
1. Group adjusted underlying EBIT A for bonus purposes is underlying EBIT A as shown on page 16, increased by unbudgeted corporate costs and reduced by the amount by which actual  
one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs. T arget is the budgeted amount (net of budgeted one-off costs). 
2. 30% from 1 January to 31 March 2013 – bonus of 3% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved; 
35% from 1 April to 31 December 2013 – bonus of 3.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved;. 
3. 0.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved. 
4. Bonus of 2.5% of salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget. “Return” for this purpose is calculated on the basis 
of underlying EBIT A as shown on page 16 increased by certain exceptional 2013 corporate costs. 
5. Financial covenants include a debt incurrence covenant in connection with the Group’ s floating rate senior secured notes that, if triggered, would impose a leverage covenant, and a leverage 
covenant under the Group’ s revolving credit facility . Neither of these was triggered in 2013. 
6. For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same actual average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency 
amounts in the Group income statement. 
Tim Jones 
Measure Target Threshold
Bonus % of base   
salary at target  Actual performance
3
 
Bonus % of current 
salary at actual 
performance
Group adjusted 
underlying EBITA
1
 €75.7 million 85% of target 25%/35%
2
107.9% of target
6
 49.7%
Group external sales €504.4 million 85% of target 5%
3
106.4% of target
6
 7.1%
Return on sales 14.53% Budget
4
 2.5% Higher than budget 2.5%
Compliance with 
financial covenants
5
  
Covenant 
compliance 2.5%
Covenant compliance 
achieved 2.5%
Notes:  
1. Group adjusted underlying EBIT A for bonus purposes is underlying EBIT A as shown on page 16, increased by unbudgeted corporate costs and reduced by the amount by which actual 
one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs. T arget is the budgeted amount (net of budgeted one-off costs). 
2. 25% from 1 January to 31 March 2013 – bonus of 1.67% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved; 35% from 1 April to 31 December 2013 – bonus of 2.33% of 
base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved. 
3. 0.33% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved. 
4. Bonus of 2.5% of base salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget. “Return” for this purpose is on the basis of 
underlying EBIT A as shown on page 16 increased by certain exceptional 2013 corporate costs. 
5. Financial covenants include a debt incurrence covenant in connection with the Group’ s floating rate senior secured notes that, if triggered, would impose a leverage covenant, and a leverage 
covenant under the Group’ s revolving credit facility . Neither of these was triggered in 2013. 
6. For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same actual average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency 
amounts in the Group income statement. 
The Committee therefore awarded a total bonus of 78.7% of salary to Steve Salmon (equal to £310,108) and 61.8% of salary to 
Tim Jones (equal to £166,949).   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
43
L TIP awards granted in 2013 
Awards to the Executive Directors were made on listing of 150% of salary . 
Vesting of 2013 L TIP awards is based 50% on annualised growth in the Company’ s earnings per share (EPS) and 50% on the Company’ s 
total shareholder return (TSR) compared with the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) measured over a three-year period. For EPS-
based awards, the performance period covers the 2013-2015 financial years and for TSR-based awards the performance period started 
on 2 April 2013 (date of Admission). The performance targets are as follows:  
EPS growth 
TSR rank compared with FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) Percentage of award vesting 
Less than 7% per annum Below median  nil 
7% per annum Median  25% 
12% per annum Upper quartile  100% 
Between 7% and 12% per annum Between median and upper 
quartile  
Between 25% and 100% on 
a straight-line basis 
The following table shows the L TIP awards that were made to the Executive Directors on 2 April 2013. The share price on 2 April 2013 
was £1.95. 
Director Number of shares Face value Face value % of salary Vesting date
Steve Salmon 303,077 £591,000 150% 2 April 2016
Tim Jones 207,692 £405,000 150% 2 April 2016
Directors’ pension arrangements 
The Company has put in place pension arrangements for its Executive Directors as outlined in the policy table on pages 34 and 36. 
The Company does not have have a normal retirement age for employees.  
During 2013, Steve Salmon received the following pension-related benefits, which are included in the single figure disclosed on page 41: 
• payments of £64,919 in lieu of pension;  
• the estimated value accruing during 2013, amounting to £10,477, of the benefit of his retirement lump sum entitlement as a Director 
of HellermannT yton Co. Ltd (Japan). Had Steve Salmon retired on 31 December 2013 the retirement lump sum (including a 
discretionary uplift of 30%) would have amounted to approximately £124,000; and 
• a fixed pension allowance of £15,500. 
During 2013, contributions of £41,520 were made to the Company’ s defined contribution scheme on behalf of Tim Jones.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
44 
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests 
The table below summarises the Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company , including those held under outstanding L TIP and 
GSP awards, as at 31 December 2013. All the shares owned outright or vested are beneficial interests. Executive Directors are required to 
build up and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries by the fifth anniversary of their joining the Board and they are 
required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under the L TIP until this guideline is met. The shareholdings of the current 
Executive Directors already meet this requirement. 
Director 
Owned 
outright 
or vested
Unvested and 
subject
 
to performance
 
condition
Unvested and  
subject to  
continued  
employment 
T otal share 
interests
Steve Salmon 1,289,539 303,077 256 1,592,872
Tim Jones 297,727 207,692 214 505,633
David Newlands 50,000 N/A N/A 50,000
Tim Hancock 25,000 N/A N/A 25,000
John Biles 25,000 N/A N/A 25,000
David Lindsell 20,000 N/A N/A 20,000
Alex Moss 0 N/A N/A 0
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company between 31 December 2013 and 
28 February 2014. 
 
Performance review 
The graph below compares the value of £100 invested in 
HellermannT yton shares, including re-invested dividends, with the 
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index, since the listing of 
the Company on the London Stock Exchange in April 2013. The 
FTSE 250 index was selected as a relevant comparator as it 
includes companies of a similar size and complexity to 
HellermannT yton and as the Company is a constituent of the 
index. T o be commensurate with Company performance, the 
single figure of remuneration for the Chief Executive in the table 
that follows the graph is his remuneration from the date of listing, 
2 April 2013, to 31 December 2013.  
 
 
2013
Chief Executive single figure of remuneration (£’000) 622
Annual bonus payout as % of maximum 78.7%
L TIP vesting as % of maximum N/A
Change in Chief Executive remuneration 
The table below shows the Chief Executive’ s remuneration, 
comprising salary , taxable benefits and annual bonus, for 2012 
and 2013 and the percentage change. It also shows the average 
percentage change from 2012 to 2013 in the cash-based 
remuneration of the Group’ s UK-based employees. The 
Committee believes that UK-based employees are the most 
appropriate comparator employee group as the Chief Executive is 
based in the UK and is therefore subject to the same inflationary 
and currency environment as UK employees. For the purpose of 
the table, the remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of all 
UK-based employees for 2012 and the period from 1 January 
2013 to 1 April 2013 are the amounts paid by the Group under its 
previous holding company of the Group, HellermannT yton Alpha 
S.à.r .l, and its subsidiaries. 
Chief Executive 
All UK-
based 
employees
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000 % change % change
Salary 389 368 5.7% 2.5%
T axable benefits 33 30 10.0% 2.0%
Annual variable 310 143 116.7% 140.2%
T otal  732 541 35.3% 13.3%
 
Apr 2013 Jun 2013 Sep 2013 Dec 2013
Key
  HellermannTyton 
FTSE 250 excluding 
investment trusts 
 
200
£’000
175
150
125
100
75
Total shareholder return (weekly) HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
45
Relative importance of spend on pay 
This section of the report is required to show, for the current and 
immediately preceding year , the actual expenditure of the 
Company and the difference in spend between those years, on (a) 
total employee remuneration and (b) distributions to shareholders. 
HellermannT yton Group PLC was incorporated in February 2013 
and no meaningful comparison can be made because the 
Company has to date paid only one, interim, dividend (totalling 
£2.8 million) when in a full year it would normally expect to pay 
two dividends. T otal employee remuneration for the Group was 
£155.0 million in 2012 and £166.6 million in 2013, the 2013 total 
representing an increase of 7.5% over 2012.  
Statement of implementation of policy for the financial year 
ending 31 December 2014 
The Committee has reviewed Executive Director base salaries 
taking account of the factors set out in the policy table on page 33 
and considers it appropriate to increase them by 2.5%, to 
£403,850 in the case of Steve Salmon and £276,750 in the case 
of Tim Jones, with effect from 1 April 2014. This level of increase 
is similar to the average salary increase awarded to the Group’ s 
UK employees. 
For 2014, taxable benefits and pension will be in line with the 
policy set out in the policy report. 
2014 annual bonus measures and weightings 
As set out in the policy table on page 34, the maximum annual 
bonus opportunity for both Executive Directors for 2014 will be 
100% of salary . 
In line with the stated policy , the annual bonus will be based on 
Group operational and financial performance targets. For 2014, 
the measures for the Executive Directors include: 
• Group underlying trading profit; 
• Group external sales; and 
• return on sales. 
The Committee considers that the weightings and performance 
targets for 2014 are commercially sensitive and they are therefore 
not disclosed. They are expected to be disclosed in the 2014 
Directors’ remuneration report to the extent that they are no 
longer commercially sensitive. 
Long T erm Incentive Plan 
The Committee intends to grant L TIP awards in 2014 of 150% 
of salary to the Executive Directors which will vest in line with 
the policy . 
Global Share Plan (GSP) awards 
Steve Salmon participates in the purchase and matching element 
of the GSP , which was introduced in December 2013. For the 
period from December 2013 to December 2014, the Chief 
Executive will be entitled to purchase up to £1,500 worth of shares 
through the GSP and, if he holds these shares for three years, the 
Company will match the first £600 of this investment on a one-
for-one basis.  
External appointments 
Tim Jones is a Non-executive Director of Corporate Legal Solutions 
Limited. He did not receive any fees in respect of this directorship 
in 2013. 
Payments for loss of office 
There were no payments for loss of office during the year . 
Payments to past Directors 
No payments were made to past Directors during the year. 
Dilution 
The rules of each share plan specify a dilution limit (principally an 
aggregate limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company 
in any ten-year period) for all share plans together and the 
Committee reviews the position before any proposed grant to 
ensure that this limit is not breached. In addition, in any ten-year 
period, not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Company from time to time may be issued or transferred from 
treasury pursuant to the L TIP and any other plan which is operated 
on a discretionary basis. 
Existing options and awards granted under the various Company’ s 
share schemes to date equate to approximately 1.80% of the 
current issued share capital of the Company . 
On behalf of the Board. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 February 2014 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other statutory disclosures 
 
46 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’ s articles of association enable the Board to 
authorise conflicts of interest matters pursuant to Section 175 of 
the Companies Act 2006. No conflicts of interest arose during 
the year . 
Final dividend 
The Company has proposed that a final dividend of 5.23 cents per 
share will be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Share capital 
The Company has the following single class of shares in issue:  
Class of share Number of shares in issue
Ordinary shares of €0.01 each 215,388,109
The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company 
available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding 
up of the Company . The ordinary shares carry the right to attend 
and speak at general meetings of the Company; each share holds 
the right to one vote. The ordinary shares were admitted to trading 
on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013. 
At the year end, there were no shares held in treasury and the 
Company’ s employees share trust held 88,402 shares. 
Authority to purchase shares 
The Company currently does have authority to purchase its 
own shares under its Articles of Association. At the year end, the 
Company had purchased 10,858 of its own shares in accordance 
with its Global Share Plan, which are held by the Company’ s 
employees’ share trust. 
Share transfer restrictions 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company 
other than the lock-up arrangements which were entered into 
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement at the time of the Initial 
Public Offering. Details of these arrangements were set out in the 
Prospectus document, copies of which can be found on the 
Company investor relations website at 
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com. 
Provisions on change of control 
As at 31 December 2013, the Company had €220.0 million senior 
secured notes in place which provided that, on any change of 
control of the Company , HellermannT yton Finance PLC (the issuer) 
would make an offer to redeem the notes in cash equal to 101% 
of the principal amount plus interest. The provision of the notes 
relating to the issuer’ s obligations to make an offer to repurchase 
the notes following a change of control could be waived or 
modified with the prior written consent of the noteholders of a 
majority in principal amount of the notes. 
The Group’ s new revolving credit facility provides that, on any 
change of control of the Company , any lender under the 
Agreement is entitled to (i) not fund a new utilisation of the facility , 
and (ii) with ten days’ notice cancel the facility commitment and 
receive repayment of amounts owing to such lender . 
Contractual arrangements 
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business activities. The disclosure in this 
report of information about any of those third parties is not 
considered necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’ s businesses. 
Political donations 
The Company did not make any political donations during 2013. 
Major shareholdings 
As at 28 February 2014, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and T ransparency 
Rules of the UK Listing Authority , of the following major 
shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company:  
Name 
Number  
of shares  
held 
Percentage of 
issued capital
(%)
DHC H S.à.r .l 46,607,244 21.64
Cazenove Capital Mgt 29,688,416 13.78
Standard Life Investments  17,767,888 8.25 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance Financial statements F F F F Fi i i i in n n na a a an n n nc c c ci i i ia a a al l l l s s s s st t t ta a a at t t te e e em m m me e e en n n nts ts ts ts Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
47
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , Chartered Accountants, the 
Company’ s external auditors, have expressed their willingness 
to be reappointed as auditors of the Company . Upon the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint 
them as the Company’ s auditors and to authorise the Directors to 
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 AGM. 
Annual general meeting 
The notice convening the AGM to be held on 30 April 2014 at 
11.30 a.m. is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders with 
this report. The meeting will be held at Hotel Sofitel, Gatwick 
Airport, Crawley , West Sussex RH6 0PH. The notice of AGM 
contains full details of the resolutions that will be put 
to shareholders. 
Special business 
At the AGM, a special resolution will be proposed that, in 
accordance with the Company’ s Articles of Association, a general 
meeting (other than an AGM) may be called on not less than 
14 clear days’ notice. 
Hayley Whitehead  
Company Secretary 
28 February 2014 
Registered office 
HellermannT yton Group PLC 
Stoner House 
London Road 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 8LJ 
Please note that, from 1 May 2014, the registered office 
will change to: 
Griffin House 
135 High Street 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 1DQ 
Registered number 
08409650  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other statutory disclosures continued 
 
48 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration 
report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
report on Directors’ remuneration and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law 
requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year . Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and 
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
generally accepted accounting practice (UK Accounting Standards 
and applicable law). Under company law, the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements respectively; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’ s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on 
Directors’ remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’ s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair , balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’ s performance, business model and strategy . 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Group; and 
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of true development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces. 
Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure 
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: 
• significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end; 
• a history of cash generation and covenant compliance; and 
• good visibility in near-term forecasts and budget, taking account 
of capital expenditure plans and reasonable possible changes in 
trading performance, indicating that we expect to be able to 
operate within the level of our refinanced banking facilities. 
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of 
this Directors’ report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’ s auditors 
are unaware; and that they have taken all steps that they ought to 
have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’ s auditors are 
aware of that information. 
By order of the Board. 
Steve Salmon Tim Jones 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of HellermannT yton Group PLC 
49
Report on the Group financial statements 
 
Our opinion  
In our opinion the Group financial statements defined below: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’ s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of the Group’ s profit and cash flows for 
the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below. 
What we have audited 
The Group financial statements (the “financial statements”), which 
are prepared by HellermannT yton Group PLC comprise: 
• the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2013; 
• the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive 
income for the year then ended; 
• the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended; and 
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework 
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and 
Accounts (“Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the 
financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An 
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and  
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report. 
Overview of our audit approach 
 
Materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality . These helped us to 
determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and 
on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the Group financial statements as a whole to be €3.3 million 
which represents approximately 5% of underlying profit before 
tax. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above €150,000 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Overview of the scope of our audit 
The Group is structured on a geographical basis with three 
segments being EMEA, Americas and Asian, and has a number 
of centralised functions. The Group financial statements are 
a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Group’ s 
manufacturing and sales units spread across the segments, 
together with, holding and financing entities and centralised 
functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that was needed to be performed at 
the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or 
component auditors within both PwC UK and from other PwC 
network firms operating under our instruction. Where the work 
was performed by component auditors, we also determined the 
level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those 
reporting units audited by other audit teams to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.  
Accordingly , of the Group’ s 37 reporting units, we identified nine 
(representing 74% of Group revenue ) based in the UK, USA, 
Germany , Japan, Singapore, China, and Brazil which, in our view, 
required an audit of their complete financial information, either 
due to their size or their risk characteristics. Specific audit 
procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed 
at a further three holding and financing units in the UK (92% of 
Group underlying profit before tax, covered by these 12 reporting 
units). This, together with additional procedures performed at the 
Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on 
the Group financial statements as a whole.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of HellermannT yton Group PLC continued
50 
Areas of particular audit focus 
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a 
number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. We primarily focused our work in these areas by 
assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements. 
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling 
and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
We considered the following areas to be those that required 
particular focus in the current year . This is not a complete list of all 
risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these 
areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their report on those 
matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to 
the financial statements is set out on pages 28 to 29. 
 
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed 
the area of focus 
Recoverability of 
inventory and debtors 
Given the nature of the 
business there is focus 
on the levels of working 
capital. With the 
increases in inventory 
and trade debtors in the 
current year , we focused 
on the recoverability of 
debtors and the 
appropriate provisioning 
for inventory . 
We performed detailed testing on 
the debtor and inventory provisions 
to ensure the underlying accuracy 
of the information used to calculate 
the provisions.  
We re-performed the provision 
calculations to ensure they have been 
correctly calculated. 
We challenged management on any 
significant fluctuations from expected 
working capital levels in the different 
locations and on amounts excluded 
from provisioning or where specific 
provisions had been identified. 
Risk of management 
override of internal 
controls  
Auditing standards require 
that we consider this. 
We tested key reconciliations and 
manual journal entries. We considered
whether there was evidence of bias 
by the Directors in the significant 
accounting estimates and judgements 
relevant to the financial statements. 
We also assessed the overall control 
environment of the Group and 
discussed with senior management 
the possibilities for management 
override of controls. 
Risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition  
We focused on this area 
because of the potential for 
misstatement of revenue 
recognition and its 
presentation in the income 
statement due to the 
inherent complexities of 
revenue recognition. 
We performed testing to check the 
timing of revenue recognition. We 
also performed testing of controls 
over the recording of revenue 
transactions and detailed substantive 
testing to supporting documentation 
and cash to gain assurance over the 
occurrence of revenue. We tested the 
reconciliations between the revenue 
systems used by the Group and its 
financial ledgers. We also tested 
journal entries posted to revenue 
accounts to identify unusual or 
irregular items and obtained evidence 
to determine the rationale for the 
adjustments tested. 
 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
  
51
Going Concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’ s financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group have adequate resources to remain 
in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at 
least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of 
the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However , because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’ s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Opinion on matter prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Other matters on which we are required to report 
by exception 
 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this responsibility . 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are 
required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders 
by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. We have no exceptions 
to report arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’ s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”). We have nothing to report having performed 
our review. 
On page 48 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code 
Provision C.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair , balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the 
Group’ s performance, business model and strategy . On pages 28 
to 29, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has 
set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the 
financial statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs 
(UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
• the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit 
 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors  
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities, set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’ s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial 
statements of HellermannT yton Group PLC for the period ended 
31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors’ 
remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Rosemary Shapland  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
Gatwick 
28 February 2014  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
52 
By function of expense Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Revenue 4 537,989 514,211
Cost of sales 18 (313,207) (300,468)
Gross profit  224,782 213,743
   
Selling and distribution costs 18 (119,422) (113,381)
Administrative expenses 18 (42,718) (34,724)
Gain on asset held for sale 13  902 –
Operating profit 4 63,544 65,638
   
Finance income 20 1,453 938
Finance costs 20 (29,887) (16,259)
Finance costs – net 20 (28,434) (15,321)
Profit before tax  35,110 50,317
   
T ax expense 21 (12,690) (19,143)
Profit for the year  4 22,420 31,174
   
Earnings per share (cents)   
Basic 5 10.60 15.59
Diluted 5 10.41 15.59
Group statement of comprehensive income 
 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Profit for the year 4 22,420 31,174
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss   
Actuarial gain/(loss) on post-employment benefit obligations 27 1,434 (772)
Deferred tax on actuarial gain/loss 22 (413) 222
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   
Currency translation differences 15 (32,944) (16,443)
T otal other comprehensive loss  (31,923) (16,993)
T otal comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  (9,503) 14,181
The notes on pages 56–89 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other information O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e er r r r r i i i in n n n nf f f f fo or or or orm ma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n Financial statements Overview O O O Ov v v v ve e e er r r rv v v v vi i i i ie e e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S St t t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r re e e e ep p p p po o o or r r r rt t t t Governance
Group balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2013 
53
Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 8 239,814 269,836
Property , plant and equipment 7 159,044 149,170
Deferred tax assets 22 5,792 4,537
Retirement benefit surplus 27 1,103 619
Other receivables 10 5,191 6,095
  410,944 430,257
Current assets   
Inventories 11 83,243 76,142
T rade and other receivables 10 118,225 103,624
Derivative financial instruments 12 1,012 285
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 14 80,039 50,138
  282,519 230,189
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 13 – 3,945
  282,519 234,134
T otal assets  693,463 664,391
   
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Parent Company    
Ordinary shares 15 2,154 10,000
Share premium 15 – 4,700
Capital redemption reserve 15 100 –
T ranslation reserve 15 (12,250) 20,694
Other reserves 15 (35,772) 322,652
Retained earnings  387,072 (39,573)
T otal equity  341,304 318,473
   
Non-current liabilities   
T rade and other payables 16 686 597
Borrowings 17 229,587 219,408
Deferred tax liabilities 22 23,632 28,524
Retirement benefit obligations 27 2,542 4,367
  256,447 252,896
Current liabilities   
T rade and other payables 16 88,164 86,960
Current tax liabilities  5,029 2,648
Borrowings 17 979 1,190
Derivative financial instruments 12 137 82
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 25 1,403 2,142
  95,712 93,022
T otal liabilities  352,159 345,918
T otal equity and liabilities  693,463 664,391
The notes on pages 56–89 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: 
David Newlands        Tim Jones 
Chairman           Chief Financial Officer 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
54 
 Note
Ordinary 
shares  
€’000 
Share 
premium 
€’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
T ranslation 
reserve 
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
€’000
Other  
reserves  
€’000 
Retained 
earnings 
€’000
Total
€’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 10,000 4,700 – 37,137 – 322,652 (70,197)304,292
Comprehensive income   
Profit for the year – – – – – – 31,174 31,174
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)   
Actuarial loss on 
post-employment 
benefit obligations 27 – – – – – – (772) (772)
Deferred tax on actuarial loss  – – – – – – 222 222
Currency translation 
differences  – – –(16,443) – – –(16,443)
T otal comprehensive 
income – – –(16,443) – – 30,62414,181
Balance at 1 January 2013 10,000 4,700 – 20,694 – 322,652 (39,573) 318,473
Comprehensive income   
Profit for the year – – – – – – 22,420 22,420
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)   
Actuarial gain on 
post-employment 
benefit obligations 27 – – – – – – 1,434 1,434
Deferred tax on actuarial gain  – – – – – – (413) (413)
Currency translation 
differences  – – – (32,944) – – – (32,944)
T otal comprehensive 
income – – – (32,944) – – 23,441 (9,503)
Change in Group structure  15 (8,000) 366,424 100 – – (358,424) – 100
Redemption of preference 
shares 15 – – (100) – 100 – (100) (100)
Issue of new shares on IPO 15 153 33,128 – – – – – 33,281
Capital reduction 15 – (404,252) – – – – 404,252 –
Issue of shares for free share 
scheme 15 1 – – – – – – 1
Equity settled share  
based payments 26 – – – – – – 1,645 1,645
T ax credit relating to equity 
settled share  
based payments – – – – – – 242 242
Dividend payments 6 – – – – – – (2,835) (2,835)
Balance at 31 December 
2013 2,154 – – (12,250) 100 (35,772) 387,072 341,304
The notes on pages 56–89 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
Group statement of cash flows  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
55
Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations 24 73,122 68,855
Interest paid  (13,318) (11,806)
Tax paid  (15,904) (21,635)
Net cash generated from operating activities  43,900 35,414
   
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (PPE) 7 (40,746) (36,328)
Proceeds from sale of asset held for sale 13 2,885 –
Proceeds from sale of PPE 24 744 851
Interest received  441 653
Net cash used in investing activities  (36,676) (34,824)
   
Cash flows from financing activities   
Net proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 15 29,479 –
Dividends paid 6 (2,835) –
Proceeds from issuance of secured notes  – 220,000
Proceeds from borrowings  240 2,119
Payment of fees relating to issuance of secured notes  – (6,550)
Repayments of bank borrowings   – (225,566)
Net cash generated from/(used) in financing activities  26,884 (9,997)
   
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  34,108 (9,407)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year  50,138 60,358
Exchange loss on cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  (4,207) (813)
   
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 14 80,039 50,138
The notes on pages 56–89 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 
56 
1 General information 
HellermannT yton Group PLC (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(together “the Group”) is a leading global manufacturer and 
distributor of high performance and innovative cable management 
solutions for fastening, identifying, insulating, protecting, 
organising, routing and connecting components in its Electrical, 
Automotive and Datacom & Other market segments.  
The Group has direct sales operations in 34 countries worldwide 
supported by strategically positioned distribution, design and 
manufacturing facilities, with 12 manufacturing facilities located in 
ten countries. 
On 2 April 2013, the Company successfully applied for admission 
of its ordinary shares to the Official List of the UK Financial Services 
Authority and to trading on the main market for listed securities of 
the London Stock Exchange (“Admission”). The Company is 
incorporated and domiciled in the UK and its registered office is 
Stoner House, London Road, Crawley , West Sussex RH10 8LJ. 
These Group consolidated financial statements, for the year ended 
31 December 2013, were authorised for issue by the Board on 
28 February 2014. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
The Group's principal accounting policies adopted in the 
preparation of these financial statements are set out below.  
Basis of preparation 
The Company was incorporated on 19 February 2013. T o facilitate 
the Admission, the entire issued share capital of HellermannT yton 
Alpha S.à.r .l. was acquired by the Company . Prior to this 
restructuring, the business was conducted solely through 
HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. and its subsidiaries. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared as a 
continuation of the HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. business with 
an adjustment to reflect the share capital of HellermannT yton 
Group PLC. 
This consolidated financial information has been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union and the International Financial 
Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee’ s (IFRIC) 
interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial 
information has been prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) that have been measured at fair 
value through profit or loss.  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’ s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity , or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements, are disclosed on page 62 within critical 
accounting estimates and assumptions. 
Going concern 
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: 
• significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end; 
• a history of cash generation and covenant compliance; and 
• good visibility in near-term forecasts and budget, taking account 
of capital expenditure plans and reasonable possible changes in 
trading performance, indicates that we expect to be able to 
operate within the level of our refinanced banking facilities. 
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
 
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the 
first time and do not have a material impact on the Group: 
• Amendment to IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation”, 
regarding other comprehensive income (OCI). The main change 
resulting from these amendments is a requirement for entities to 
group items presented in OCI on the basis of whether they 
are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently 
(reclassification adjustments).  
• Amendment to IFRS 7, “Financial instruments: Disclosures”, on 
asset and liability offsetting. This amendment includes new 
disclosures to facilitate comparison between those entities that 
prepare IFRS financial statements and those that prepare 
financial statements in accordance with US GAAP . 
• IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency 
and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair 
value and a single source of fair value measurement and 
disclosure requirements for use across IFRS. The requirements, 
which are largely aligned between IFRS and US GAAP , do not 
extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on 
how it should be applied where its use is already required or 
permitted by other standards within IFRS. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
57
(b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted 
The following new standards and amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 
1 January 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these 
consolidated financial statements. None of these is expected to 
have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group.  
Amendments to IAS 36, “Impairment of assets”, on the 
recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets. This 
amendment removed certain disclosures of the recoverable 
amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue 
of IFRS 13.  
IFRIC 21, “Levies”, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay 
a levy that is not income tax. The Group is not currently subjected 
to significant levies. 
IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. IFRS 9 replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the 
classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 
requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement 
categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at 
amortised cost. The determination is made at initial recognition. 
The classification depends on the entity’ s business model for 
managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the 
standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main 
change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for 
financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’ s 
own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather 
than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting 
mismatch. The Group has yet to assess IFRS 9’ s full impact and 
intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period 
beginning on or after 1 January 2015, subject to endorsement by 
the EU.  
IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements”, builds on existing 
principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining 
factor in whether an entity should be included within the 
consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company . The new 
standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’ s 
consolidation of subsidiaries. 
IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements”, focuses on the rights and 
obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal 
form. There are two types of joint arrangements: joint operations 
and joint ventures. Joint operations arise where the investors have 
rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of an 
arrangement. A joint operator accounts for its share of the assets, 
liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where the 
investors have rights to the net assets of the arrangement; joint 
ventures are accounted for under the equity method. Proportional 
consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer permitted. The 
standard is not mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014, and 
impact is not expected to be material. 
IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities”, includes the 
disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, 
including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles 
and other off balance sheet vehicles. The new standard is not 
expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 
31 December 2013. The financial statements of subsidiaries 
are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent 
Company , using consistent accounting policies. 
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries – representing 
the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired –  is capitalised as an 
intangible asset. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and 
carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the 
related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually 
at business segment level or statutory company level as the case 
may be. Where the recoverable amount, being the higher of value 
in use and fair value less cost to sell, of the cash-generating unit is 
less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment 
loss is recognised in the income statement in the period in which 
the impairment is recognised and is not subsequently reversed.  
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
58 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are non-monetary assets that have been 
identified on acquisition. These assets are amortised over their 
useful economic lives on a straight-line basis with associated useful 
economic lives as follows: 
• customer relationships (15 years) 
• brands and trademarks (20 years) 
• patents (5 years) 
• HellermannT yton product database and catalogue (5 years). 
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. The carrying value of 
intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the 
amount by which the asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to selling and 
distribution costs in the income statement.  
Intangible assets arising on the Group’ s various product 
development projects are recognised only if all of the following 
conditions are met: 
i) an asset is created that can be separately identified (such as 
software or a new process); 
ii) it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic benefits; 
iii) the development cost can be measured reliably; 
iv) it is intended that the asset is completed and used; and 
v) there are adequate financial, technical and other resources to 
complete, use or sell the asset. 
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the 
technological feasibility of the product under development has 
been established. T echnological feasibility in HellermannT yton’ s 
circumstances occurs when a working model is completed. For 
software development, technological feasibility is not established 
until the process of developing the software is complete. After 
technological feasibility is established, additional costs are 
capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life. 
Property , plant and equipment depreciation 
Property , plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset 
and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use.  
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is 
provided to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all 
other assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis 
at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their 
location. These are reassessed on an annual basis and adjusted if 
appropriate. Useful asset lives are as follows: 
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Properties held under finance 
leases 
Over the shorter of the useful life 
and the lease period 
Plant and machinery  5 to 10 years 
Furniture, fittings and equipment: 
– Building installations 20 years or lease period if less 
– Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years 
– Motor vehicles 5 years 
– Business system software 4 years 
The carrying values of property , plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the 
asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Any gain or loss on the disposal of assets is taken directly to the 
income statement. 
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated 
at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if 
their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction which is highly probable rather than through 
continuing use. 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an 
indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’ s recoverable 
amount. An asset’ s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’ s 
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for 
an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups 
of assets.  
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement of 
those expense categories consistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
59
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there 
is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may 
no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’ s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable 
amount. The increased amount cannot exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed in 
future periods. 
Such a reversal is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted 
in future periods to allocate the asset’ s revised carrying amount, 
less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining 
useful life. 
Financial assets 
 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified 
as non-current assets. The Group’ s loans and receivables are 
comprised of “trade and other receivables“ and “cash and cash 
equivalents” in the balance sheet. 
Leases 
Finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the assets concerned, are recognised in the 
balance sheet at the lower of fair value of the leased asset and net 
present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of 
the lease. The corresponding liabilities are recorded as long-term or 
current liabilities depending on when they are due. The interest 
elements of the rental obligations are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the lease as a finance cost. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance cost and the 
reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability . Capitalised leased 
assets are depreciated over their useful life as above. 
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset and are not 
finance leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net 
realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to 
its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing 
cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads 
based on a normal level of activity and excluding borrowing costs. 
Net realisable value represents selling price less further costs to be 
incurred to completion and on sale. Provisions are made for slow 
moving, obsolete or defective inventory . 
T rade and other receivables 
T rade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that the Group will 
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original 
terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor , probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or 
financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments 
(more than 90 days overdue) are considered indicators that the 
trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’ s carrying amount and the estimated 
future cash flows. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the 
loss is recognised in the income statement within “selling and 
distribution costs”. When a trade and other receivable is 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for 
trade and other receivables. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited against “selling and distribution costs” in the income 
statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at 
bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash 
and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
T rade payables 
T rade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that 
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if 
payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented 
as non-current liabilities. 
T rade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
60 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Provisions 
Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle by an outflow of 
resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the 
obligation can be made. Provisions are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the 
amount of the provision is the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation. 
Foreign currencies 
The Company has chosen to present the consolidated financial 
statements in Euros. The functional currency of the Company is 
the Euro. 
T ransactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are measured at historical cost using the exchange rate at the date 
of the initial transactions. Such transaction differences are 
recognised in the income statement. 
The functional currencies of the Group’ s principal operations are 
the Euro, pounds Sterling, Japanese Y en and US Dollar . 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’ s foreign 
operations, including goodwill arising on the acquisition of such 
foreign operations, are translated into the Group’ s presentation 
currency at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
The results of foreign operations are translated into Euro using 
average rates and the difference is recorded as a translation 
adjustment within other comprehensive income. 
Equity investments in foreign operations include long-term 
intra-group loans, the settlement of which is neither planned nor 
likely to occur in the foreseeable future. Exchange differences 
arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of foreign 
investments and exchange adjustments arising from the translation 
of the results of foreign operations are classified as OCI and 
transferred to the Group’ s translation reserve. Such translation 
differences are recognised as part of the profit or loss on disposal 
should an operation be disposed of. 
The significant translation rates used in the reported results are 
as follows: 
Rates to Euro 2012 average 2013 average 2013 closing
GBP 0.81 0.85 0.83
USD 1.29 1.33 1.38
JPY 102.77 129.80 144.83
 
 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares and preference shares are classified as equity and 
are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Mandatory redeemable preference shares and Class A-II ordinary 
shares are classified as liabilities as they accrue an annual 
distribution right. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’ s balance 
sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value of the 
consideration received, net of issue costs. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any issue costs and any discount or premium 
on settlement. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. 
The Group’ s policy is not to undertake any trading activity in 
financial instruments. Such derivative financial instruments are 
stated at fair value. 
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative.  
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange 
exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign 
currencies. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for 
contracts with similar maturity profiles. Interest rate swaps are used 
to hedge the Group’ s exposure to movements in interest rates. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to 
market rates for similar instruments. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any 
gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the 
income statement.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
61
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is based on the fair value of the sale of goods and 
services. It excludes sales between Group companies, VAT and 
similar sales-based taxes. Revenue is recognised when it is probable 
that economic benefits will flow to the Group, the revenue can be 
reliably measured and when the Group has transferred to the 
buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, 
revenue is only recognised when collectibility is probable. This is 
determined to be when delivery has occurred, title of the goods 
has passed to the purchaser and where the price is fixed or 
determinable and reflects the commercial substance of 
the transaction. 
Government grants 
Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value 
where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be 
received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.  
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised 
in the income statement over the period necessary to match them 
with the costs that they are intended to compensate.  
Employee benefits 
When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an 
accounting period, short-term benefits expected to be paid in 
exchange for those services are recognised in the same 
accounting period. 
Pension obligations 
Group companies operate various pension schemes, and 
the Group has both defined contribution and defined 
benefit schemes.  
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to 
publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory , contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no 
further payment obligations once the contributions have been 
paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised 
as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available.  
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined 
contribution plan. T ypically, defined benefit plans define an 
amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, 
years of service and compensation. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of a defined 
benefit pension plan is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of 
plan assets. A surplus is recognised if the fair value of plan assets 
exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation. The 
defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value 
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pensions liability . 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income 
statement, unless the changes in the pension plan are conditional 
on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of 
time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
Taxation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that apply to the current year . 
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the 
following exceptions: 
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it 
is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; or 
• where deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits 
or tax losses can be recognised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted 
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is recognised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
T ax is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income 
if it relates to items that are credited or charged to other 
comprehensive income. Otherwise tax is recognised in the 
income statement. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
62 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Share based payments 
The Group operates two equity settled share based 
compensation plans and has applied the requirements of 
IFRS 2, “Share based payments”. 
Grants of shares to employees are measured at fair value at the 
grant date and expensed over the relevant vesting period, based 
on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted 
for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact 
of the revision of the original estimates, if any , is recognised in the 
income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the 
revised estimates with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
Dividends 
Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end 
are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by the shareholders at the AGM. Interim dividends are 
recognised in the period in which they are paid. 
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to 
make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported. 
Such estimates and assumptions are based on management’ s best 
knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events. 
Actual results may differ , possibly significantly , from those 
estimates. The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements are discussed below. 
Goodwill impairment 
The Group tests annually by cash-generating unit whether 
goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when 
events or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value 
may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of cash-
generating units have been determined based on value in use 
calculations, which require the use of estimates and assumptions 
in respect of future cash flows and discount rates. 
Recoverability of debtors and inventory 
Where the recoverability of debtors or inventory is deemed to be in 
doubt, the Group makes appropriate provisions against the 
balance. These provisions are applied consistently across all 
operating entities, based on standard Group-wide accounting 
procedures, and have been applied on the same basis as in 
prior years. 
Income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax 
jurisdictions and judgement is applied in determining the 
worldwide provision for income taxes. There are many transactions 
for which the final tax determinability is uncertain. For example, 
liabilities are recognised for anticipated tax audit issues based on 
whether additional taxes are likely to be due based on the facts 
and circumstances known at the time the financial statements are 
prepared. Where the final outcome differs from the amounts that 
were initially recorded, the differences will be recorded in the 
future period in which the determination is made. 
Deferred taxes 
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based 
on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management. 
A change to these forecasts and estimates could result in a 
different recognition outcome.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
63
3 Financial risk management 
Financial risk factors 
The Group’ s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market 
risk (including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit 
risk and liquidity risk. The Group’ s overall risk management 
programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’ s 
financial performance. 
Risk management is carried out under policies approved by the 
Executive Board. The Board provides the written principles for 
overall risk management, as well as written policies covering 
specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk. 
(a) Market risk 
(i) Foreign exchange risk 
At 31 December 2013, if the Euro had strengthened by 10% 
against the Japanese Y en with all other variables held constant, 
post-tax profit for the year would have been €0.6 million (2012: 
€0.6 million) lower , mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on 
translation of Y en-denominated receivables.  
(ii) Interest rate risk 
At 31 December 2013, if interest rates on Euro denominated 
borrowings at that date had been 0.5% higher/lower with all 
other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would 
have been €1.1 million (2012: €0.7 million) lower/higher , mainly as 
a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating rate 
borrowings. 
(b) Credit risk 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from 
cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as 
well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding 
receivables and committed transactions. For banks and financial 
institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum 
rating of “BBB” are accepted. If customers are independently 
rated, these ratings are used. Otherwise, if there is no independent 
rating, risk control assesses the credit quality of the customer , 
taking into account its financial position, past experience and other 
factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal or external 
ratings in accordance with limits set by the Board. The utilisation of 
credit limits is regularly monitored. 
The value of financial instruments held represents the maximum 
exposure that the Group has to them. No collateral is held for this 
type of credit risk. See Note 9 for further disclosure on financial 
instruments. 
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period, and 
management does not expect any material losses from non-
performance by these counterparties. 
(c) Liquidity risk 
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the 
Group. The Group finance function monitors rolling forecasts of 
the Group’ s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to 
meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on 
its undrawn committed borrowing facilities (Note 17) at all times 
so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants 
(where applicable) on any of its borrowing facilities. Such 
forecasting takes into consideration the Group’ s debt financing 
plans, covenant compliance, compliance with internal balance 
sheet ratio targets and, if applicable, external regulatory or legal 
requirements – for example, currency restrictions. All applicable 
covenants were met during the year . 
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the 
amount required for working capital management is invested in 
interest-bearing current accounts and time deposits, choosing 
instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to 
provide sufficient headroom as determined by the above-
mentioned forecasts. At the reporting date, the Group held money 
time deposits of €279,000 (2012: €277,000). It held other liquid 
assets of €6,263,000 (2012: €6,791,000) that are expected to 
readily generate cash inflows for managing liquidity risk. These are 
interest earning bank deposits with notice periods of less than 30 
days, and are therefore included within cash at bank and on hand. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
64 
3 Financial risk management continued 
The table below analyses the Group’ s financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the 
contractual undiscounted cash flows. 
At 31 December 2013 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between  
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Borrowings – – 220,000 –
Other loans 165 165 2,687 –
Derivative financial instruments 137 – – –
T rade and other payables 81,716 686 – –
Finance lease obligations 1,250 1,329 3,986 –
 
At 31 December 2012 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between  
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Borrowings 11,68211,682 255,046 –
Other loans 164 170 2,947 –
Preferred equity certificates – – – 217,514
Preference shares – – – 34,098
Ordinary shares – Class A-II – – – 100,101
Derivative financial instruments 82 – – –
T rade and other payables 81,088 597 – –
Finance lease obligations 1,453 1,124 3,371 397
The table below analyses the Group’ s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are 
the contractual undiscounted cash flows. 
At 31 December 2013 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between  
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges   
Outflow 15,641 – – –
Inflow – – – –
 
At 31 December 2012 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between  
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges   
Outflow 9,150 – – –
Inflow – – – –
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
65
Fair value estimation 
The following table presents the Group’ s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2013. 
 2013 2012 
 Note
Assets 
€’000
Liabilities  
€’000 
Assets 
€’000 
Liabilities 
€’000
T rading derivatives 12 1,012 137 285 82
All financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value have been grouped into Level 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy , as defined below, based on the degree to which fair value is observable. 
Categorisation within the fair value hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement of the relevant asset or liability as follows: 
Level 1 – fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 
Level 2 – fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, that are observable for 
the asset or liability , either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
Level 3 – fair value measurements are those derived from valuation inputs that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data. 
The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and 
the contract price and therefore these contracts are categorised as Level 2. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’ s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’ s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In 
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
Consistent with others in the industry , the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt 
divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including “current and non-current borrowings” as shown in the 
consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. T otal capital is calculated as “equity” as shown in the consolidated balance 
sheet plus net debt. 
During 2013, the Group’ s strategy was to maintain the gearing ratio below 40%. The gearing ratios at 31 December 2013 and 2012 
were as follows: 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
T otal borrowings  17 230,566 220,598
Less: cash and cash equivalents  14 (80,039) (50,138)
Net debt  150,527 170,460
T otal equity  341,304 318,473
T otal capital  491,831 488,933
Gearing ratio  31% 35%
The decrease in the gearing ratio during 2013 resulted primarily from the additional cash received from the primary offer of shares. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
66 
4 Segmental information 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker . 
The chief operating decision maker , who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Chief Executive who makes strategic decisions. 
Sales between segments are carried out on an arm’ s length basis and it is considered that sale of goods is the only material revenue 
stream for consideration.  
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are as follows: 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
T otal revenue 393,907 147,855 144,378 686,140
Intra-segment revenue (80,633) (4,247) (7,554) (92,434)
T otal segment revenue 313,274 143,608 136,824 593,706
Inter-segment revenue (29,866) (7,484) (18,367) (55,717)
Revenue from external customers 283,408 136,124 118,457 537,989
Operating profit/segment result 20,564 15,674 27,306 63,544
Finance income   1,453
Finance costs   (29,887)
Finance costs – net   (28,434)
Profit before tax   35,110
T ax expense   (12,690)
Profit for the year   22,420
Other segment items included in the income statement are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Depreciation 7 11,498 5,706 4,681 21,885
Amortisation  8 4,405 637 1,748 6,790
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are as follows: 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Total revenue 359,946 139,756 141,576 641,278
Intra-segment revenue (67,181) (4,363) (7,644) (79,188)
Total segment revenue 292,765 135,393 133,932 562,090
Inter-segment revenue (22,454) (6,535) (18,890) (47,879)
Revenue from external customers 270,311 128,858 115,042 514,211
Operating profit/segment result 27,936 12,873 24,829 65,638
Finance income   938
Finance costs   (16,259)
Finance costs – net   (15,321)
Profit before tax   50,317
T ax expense   (19,143)
Profit for the year   31,174
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
67
Other segment items included in the income statement are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Depreciation  7 11,051 5,385 4,774 21,210
Amortisation  8 4,405 637 1,748 6,790
Segment assets consist primarily of property , plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, trade and other receivables and 
cash and cash equivalents.  
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, taxation and borrowings. 
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property , plant and equipment (Note 7).  
The Group is domiciled in the UK. The result of its revenue from external customers in the UK is €36,630,000 (2012: €36,661,000), and 
the total of revenue from external customers from other countries is €501,359,000 (2012: €477,550,000). 
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are no employment benefit assets and 
rights arising under insurance contracts) located in the UK is €42,093,000 (2012: €41,314,000), and the total of such non-current assets 
located in other countries is €366,962,000 (2012: €388,943,000). 
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
T otal assets 412,291 102,741 178,431 693,463
T otal liabilities 299,016 22,137 31,006 352,159
Capital expenditure  7 21,085 12,116 7,545 40,746
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
T otal assets 379,578 97,481 187,332 664,391
T otal liabilities 293,926 21,385 30,607 345,918
Capital expenditure   7 15,890 13,289 7,149 36,328
5 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Profit for the year 22,420 31,174
Weighted average number of shares in issue – basic 211,481,056 200,000,000
Dilutive potential of employee share incentives 3,868,497 –
Weighted average number of shares in issue – diluted 215,349,553 200,000,000
Earnings per share (cents)  
Basic 10.60 15.59
Diluted 10.41 15.59
The weighted average number of shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 is based on the share capital of the Company 
immediately prior to the primary share offer made on Admission. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
68 
5 Earnings per share continued 
The Group is disclosing underlying EPS in order to enable more consistent period-on-period comparisons of its performance, as follows: 
 Note 
2013  
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Profit for the year  22,420 31,174
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  6,790 6,790
T ransaction costs  15,314 7,536
Non-cash loss/(gain) on revaluation of intra-group loans  7,542 (2,564)
Gain on disposal of asset  (902) –
One-off costs 23 3,659 1,742
T ax effect on the above items  (6,582) (212)
Underlying profit for the year  48,241 44,466
Underlying earnings per share (cents)   
Basic  22.81 22.23
Diluted  22.40 22.23
6 Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the Parent Company in the year 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 1.32 cents per share (2012: nil)  2,835 –
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 5.23 cents per share (2012: nil), amounting to €11,265,000, is 
subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
69
7 Property, plant and equipment  
 Note
Land and
buildings
€’000
Vehicles and 
machinery 
€’000 
Furniture, 
fittings and 
equipment 
€’000 
Total
€’000
At 1 January 2012   
Cost 63,337100,546 32,400 196,283
Accumulated depreciation (4,169) (33,831) (17,332) (55,332)
Net book amount 59,168 66,715 15,068 140,951
Y ear ended 31 December 2012   
Opening net book amount 59,168 66,715 15,068 140,951
Exchange differences (610) (1,532) (213) (2,355)
Additions 4,74026,915 4,673 36,328
Disposals  24 (1) (567) (31) (599)
Depreciation charge  18 (1,900) (15,388) (3,922) (21,210)
Assets classified as held for sale  13 (3,945) – – (3,945)
Reclassification (221)(29) 250 –
Closing net book amount 57,231 76,114 15,825 149,170
At 31 December 2012   
Cost 63,281116,339 35,329 214,949
Accumulated depreciation (6,050) (40,225) (19,504) (65,779)
Net book amount 57,231 76,114 15,825 149,170
Y ear ended 31 December 2013   
Opening net book amount 57,231 76,114 15,825 149,170
Exchange differences (3,053) (5,044) (555) (8,652)
Additions 4,348 29,873 6,525 40,746
Disposals  24 (12) (295) (28) (335)
Depreciation charge  18 (1,492) (15,950) (4,443) (21,885)
Reclassification (5,981) (320) 6,301 –
Closing net book amount 51,041 84,378 23,625 159,044
At 31 December 2013   
Cost 58,566 132,082 46,157 236,805
Accumulated depreciation (7,525) (47,704) (22,532) (77,761)
Net book amount 51,041 84,378 23,625 159,044
Depreciation expense of €17,458,000 (2012: €16,672,000) has been charged in cost of goods sold, €2,972,000 (2012: €3,110,000) in 
selling and distribution costs and €1,455,000 (2012: €1,428,000) in administrative expenses. 
Land and buildings includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Net book value 12,384 11,135
The Group leases vehicles and machinery and furniture, fittings and equipment under non-cancellable finance lease agreements. The 
lease terms are between three and ten years, and ownership of the assets lies within the Group. The net book amount of these assets 
held under finance lease is €260,000 (2012: €422,000).  
Borrowings are secured against the property , plant and equipment of the Group (see Note 17). 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
70 
8 Intangible assets 
 Note
Goodwill
€’000
Brands and 
trademarks 
€’000 
Others 
€’000 
Total
€’000
At 1 January 2012   
Cost 208,35949,420 79,894 337,673
Accumulated amortisation  – (13,784) (33,480) (47,264)
Net book amount 208,359 35,636 46,414 290,409
Y ear ended 31 December 2012   
Opening net book amount 208,359 35,636 46,414 290,409
Exchange differences (10,225) (1,277) (2,281) (13,783)
Amortisation charge  18 – (2,346) (4,444) (6,790)
Closing net book amount 198,134 32,013 39,689 269,836
At 31 December 2012   
Cost 198,13448,143 77,613 323,890
Accumulated amortisation  – (16,130) (37,924) (54,054)
Net book amount 198,134 32,013 39,689 269,836
Y ear ended 31 December 2013   
Opening net book amount 198,134 32,013 39,689 269,836
Exchange differences (17,223) (2,295) (3,714) (23,232)
Amortisation charge  18 – (2,346) (4,444) (6,790)
Closing net book amount 180,911 27,372 31,531 239,814
At 31 December 2013   
Cost 180,911 45,848 73,899 300,658
Accumulated amortisation  – (18,476) (42,368) (60,844)
Net book amount 180,911 27,372 31,531 239,814
Other intangible assets are comprised of acquired customer relationships, patents, the HellermannT yton product database and the 
HellermannT yton catalogue. 
Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired. 
Impairment test for goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’ s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to the country of operation and business segment. 
A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation at 31 December 2013 is presented below: 
 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Goodwill 115,994 4,941 59,976 180,911
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections 
based on financial budgets and plans covering a five-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the 
estimated growth rates stated in the following table. The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
business in which the CGU operates. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
71
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are as follows: 
 
EMEA
North 
America
South  
America Asian HT Data
Gross margin
1
 43.1%38.5%36.2% 40.9% 32.0%
Growth rate
2
 3.0%3.0%3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Discount rate
3
 10.8%13.1%20.7% 10.6% 11.0%
1. Budgeted gross margin. 
2. Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period. 
3. Pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections. 
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment. 
Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of market developments. 
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments. Based on the assessment there is no 
indication of impairment, and a reasonable possible change in the assumptions applied would not result in any impairment. 
9 Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: 
 Note
Loans and 
receivables 
€’000 
Assets at fair 
value through 
profit or loss 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Assets as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2013   
T rade and other receivables excluding prepayments  10 116,758 – 116,758
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts  14 80,039 – 80,039
Derivative financial instruments  12 – 1,012 1,012
T otal as at 31 December 2013 196,797 1,012 197,809
 
Note
Liabilities at 
fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
€’000 
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Liabilities as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2013   
Borrowings  17 – 230,566 230,566
T rade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities  16 – 82,402 82,402
Derivative financial instruments  12 137 – 137
T otal as at 31 December 2013 137 312,968 313,105
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
72 
9 Financial instruments by category continued 
 Note
Loans and 
receivables 
€’000 
Assets at fair  
value through  
profit or loss 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Assets as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2012   
T rade and other receivables excluding prepayments  10 100,852 – 100,852
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts  14 50,138 – 50,138
Derivative financial instruments   12 – 285 285
T otal as at 31 December 2012 150,990 285 151,275
 
 Note
Liabilities at fair 
value through  
profit or loss 
€’000 
Other  
financial  
liabilities 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Liabilities as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2012   
Borrowings  17 – 220,598 220,598
T rade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities  16 – 81,685 81,685
Derivative financial instruments  12 82 – 82
T otal as at 31 December 2012 82 302,283 302,365
The fair value is considered to be equal to the carrying value for financial assets and liabilities. 
Credit quality of financial assets 
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings (if 
available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates. The Group’ s policy is to deposit at least 90% of its cash at bank 
and short-term bank deposits in institutions rated BBB and above. 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
T rade and other receivables   
Counterparties without external credit rating – existing customers with no defaults in the past 116,758 100,852
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits – BBB rated and above 80,039 50,138
Derivative financial assets – A rated 1,012 285
None of the financial assets that are fully performing have been renegotiated in the last year . 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
73
10 Trade and other receivables 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
T rade receivables 102,551 88,739
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (2,778) (3,390)
T rade receivables – net 99,773 85,349
Prepayments 6,658 8,867
Other debtors 16,985 15,503
 123,416 109,719
Less: non-current portion (5,191) (6,095)
Current portion 118,225 103,624
All trade and other receivables are considered to be held at fair value. 
All non-current receivables are due within two years of the balance sheet date. 
As of 31 December 2013, trade receivables of €88,711,000 (2012: €76,863,000) were fully performing.  
T rade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2013, trade receivables of 
€11,062,000 (2012: €8,486,000) were less than three months past due, but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers for whom there is no recent history of default. There is no collateral held as security for the amounts that are past due, 
although credit insurance is purchased if available.  
As of 31 December 2013, trade receivables of €2,778,000 (2012: €3,390,000) were impaired. The amount of provision was €2,778,000  
(2012: €3,390,000) as of 31 December 2013. This primarily relates to the EMEA region which has experienced a slower recovery from 
the economic downturn than other regions. All of these receivables are over six months old. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Euro 50,479 44,352
Sterling 9,296 7,738
US Dollar 15,984 11,177
Japanese Y en 15,026 14,925
Other currencies 32,631 31,527
Total 123,416 109,719
Movements on the Group provisions for impairments of trade receivables are as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
At beginning of the year 3,390 3,202
Provision for receivables impairment 246 426
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (248) (126)
Reversal of unutilised provision (610) (112)
At end of the year 2,778 3,390
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
74 
11 Inventories 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Raw materials 12,557 13,528
Work in progress 7,514 5,578
Finished goods 63,172 57,036
Total 83,243 76,142
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to €204,001,000 (2012: €198,655,000). 
The charge for the year related to inventory write-offs amounted to €244,000 (2012: €229,000) and is included in cost of sales. 
12 Derivative financial instruments 
   2013  2012 
 
Assets 
€’000
Liabilities  
€’000 
Assets  
€’000 
Liabilities 
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges – 137 – 82
Interest rate swaps – economic hedges 1,012 – 285 –
Total 1,012 137 285 82
T rading derivatives are classified as current assets or liabilities. The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability 
if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability , if the maturity of the item is less than 
12 months. Fair value is determined by reference to observable market data.  
The total carrying amount of the asset or liability represents the fair value amount the Group would be required to pay/receive at the 
balance sheet date to/from the holder of the obligation and is charged/credited to the Group income statement. 
(a) Forward foreign exchange contracts 
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2013 were €15,641,000 
(31 December 2012: €9,150,000). 
(b) Interest rate swaps 
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2013 were €220,000,000 
(31 December 2012: €220,000,000). 
At 31 December 2013, the Group has a number of cross currency floating to fixed interest rate swaps. The fixed interest rates vary from 
5.36% to 5.47% (2012: 5.36% to 5.47%) against floating rates linked to Euribor with the currency swaps in US Dollars, Japanese Yen 
and pounds Sterling.  
13 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Property , plant and equipment – 3,945
Total – 3,945
The non-current asset held for sale at 31 December 2012 was a property in the UK, which was sold in September 2013 for €5,609,000, 
of which net proceeds of €2,885,000 have been received, with the remaining balance due in two tranches in October 2014 and April 
2015. After deducting related costs of €942,000, this gives rise to a gain on sale of €902,000. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
75
14 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Cash at bank and on hand 79,760 49,861
Short-term bank deposits 279 277
Cash and cash equivalents 80,039 50,138
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to this book value. 
15 Share capital, translation and other reserves 
 
Number 
of shares 
 ‘000 
Ordinary 
shares 
€’000
Share 
premium
 €’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
T ranslation 
reserve
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
€’000 
Other 
reserves 
€’000
Total 
€’000
At 31 December 2011 400 10,000 4,700 – 37,137 – 322,652 374,489
Movement in year – – – – (16,443) – – (16,443)
At 31 December 2012 400 10,000 4,700 – 20,694 – 322,652 358,046
Change in Group structure 199,700 (8,000) 366,424 100 – – (358,424) 100
Redemption of preference shares (100) – – (100) – 100 – –
Issue of new shares 15,308 153 33,128 – – – – 33,281
Capital reduction – – (404,252) – – – – (404,252)
Issue of shares for free share scheme 80 1 – – – – – 1
Currency translation differences – – – – (32,944) – – (32,944)
At 31 December 2013 215,388 2,154 – – (12,250) 100 (35,772) (45,768)
The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 215,388,109 with a par value of €0.01 per share. This comprises 215,308,075 issued 
at the time of the IPO, and 80,034 issued for the employee free share scheme (79,400 on 26 April 2013 and 634 on 3 October 2013). 
All issued shares are fully paid by cash consideration and all carry equal voting rights. 
Proceeds from the issue of new shares are €35,075,000. The share premium of €33,281,000 is shown net of fees of €1,794,000, 
with the final net proceeds from the primary issue of shares, after deducting further fees which are charged to the income 
statement, being €29,479,000. 
In 2013, the movement in the currency translation reserve is predominantly due to the movement in the Japanese Y en against the Euro 
and the impact of this on the revaluation of the assets and liabilities on consolidation, relating to HellermannT yton Co, Japan. 
The preference shares were redeemed by the Company resulting in the creation of the capital redemption reserve,  
which is non-distributable.  
Other reserves in 2012 comprise capital contributions from the previous shareholders. The balance in 2013 arises on the 
Group restructuring. 
16 Trade and other payables 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
T rade payables 41,361 36,614
Social security and other taxes 6,448 5,872
Accrued expenses 41,041 45,071
 88,850 87,557
Less: non-current portion (686) (597)
Current portion 88,164 86,960
All trade and other payables are considered to be held at fair value. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
76 
17 Borrowings 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Non-current  
Secured notes 222,200 208,969
Debentures and other loans 2,586 2,889
Mandatory redeemable preference shares – 100
Parent Company loan – 2,123
Ordinary shares – Class A-II – 978
Finance lease obligations 4,801 4,349
 229,587 219,408
Current  
Finance lease obligations 979 1,190
 979 1,190
T otal borrowings 230,566 220,598
Secured notes 
On 15 December 2012, the Group issued €220 million floating rate senior secured notes, which are listed on the Luxembourg Stock 
Exchange and traded on the Euro MTF market. Interest on the notes is payable quarterly in arrears on 15 March, 15 June, 15 September 
and 15 December each year , and at a rate of 5.125% above three-month Euribor . The notes will mature on 15 December 2017. Cross 
currency interest rate swaps have been taken out to hedge the currency fluctuations and interest costs (see Note 12).  
In December 2013, the decision was made to refinance the Group’ s borrowings, which was completed on 26 February 2014. 
The secured notes will be fully repaid within 30 days of this date and replaced with new bank borrowings at a lower rate of interest. 
As at 31 December 2013 therefore, the secured notes have been recorded at their full repayment value together with an early 
repayment fee of 1%.  
T ransaction costs of €11,031,000 had been capitalised in relation to the secured notes as at 31 December 2012; as a consequence of the 
expected refinance, these amounts have been expensed in 2013 within finance costs. 
Secured notes currently bear the following interest rate: 
  2013  2012 
 €’000 Interest €’000 Interest
T otal secured notes 220,000 5.308% 220,000 5.308%
Less: transaction costs – (11,031) 
Early repayment fee 1% 2,200 – 
 222,200 208,969 
Revolving credit facility 
The Group has an undrawn revolving credit facility of €80 million (31 December 2012: €80 million), which expires beyond one year. If the 
facility is drawn down, a leverage covenant will apply . No draw down was made during the year. As at 31 December 2012, transaction 
costs of €3,740,000 were capitalised in relation to the instrument. This revolving credit facility will be redeemed in March 2014 as part of 
the Group’ s refinancing and as such the capitalised transaction costs have been fully expensed in the year . 
The secured notes and undrawn revolving credit facility are secured by the land and buildings, inventory and trade receivables of 
the Group. 
Parent Company loan, mandatory redeemable preference shares and ordinary Class A-II shares 
On 2 April 2013, upon admission to the London Stock Exchange, the Parent Company loan, ordinary Class A-II shares and mandatory 
redeemable preference shares were exchanged for new shares in the Company as part of the reorganisation of the Group. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
77
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: 
 Carrying amount Fair value 
 
2013 
€’000
2012  
€’000 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Non-current   
Secured notes 222,200 208,969 222,200 212,730
Other loans 2,586 2,889 2,410 2,506
Mandatory redeemable preference shares – 100 – 100
Preferred equity certificates – 2,123 – 2,123
Ordinary shares – Class A-II – 978 – 978
Finance lease obligations 4,801 4,349 4,614 4,221
Total 229,587 219,408 229,224 222,658
The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying value, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair values are based 
on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the average borrowing rate of 5.3% (2012: 5.3%). 
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
Currency 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Euro 228,374 218,060
US Dollar 1,892 2,075
Other currencies 300 463
Total 230,566 220,598
Finance lease obligations 
The Group’ s finance leases are principally to purchase land and buildings and, to a lesser extent, vehicles and machinery . The lease 
liabilities are effectively self-secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessors in the event of default. In most cases, the Group 
has an option to purchase at the end of the lease at a predetermined price. 
Gross amounts payable under finance leases: 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Within one year 1,250 1,453
Between one and five years 5,315 4,494
After five years – 397
 6,565 6,344
Less: amounts representing future finance charges (785) (805)
 5,780 5,539
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
78 
17 Borrowings continued 
Finance lease obligations 
Land and  
buildings 
€’000 
Vehicles and  
machinery 
€’000 
Total
€’000
31 December 2013 5,468 312 5,780
31 December 2012 5,026 513 5,539
The present value of finance lease obligations is as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Within one year 979 1,190
Between one and five years 4,801 3,957
After five years – 392
Total 5,780 5,539
Debentures and other loans 
The debentures and other loans relate to loans against two properties, and are repayable within five years. 
18 Expenses by nature 
 Note 
2013  
€’000 
2012 
€’000 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress  (8,072) (3,914)
Raw materials and consumables used  212,073 202,569
Employee remuneration and benefit expenses  19 166,587 154,966
Depreciation and amortisation  7, 8 28,675 28,000
T ransportation expenses  8,957 8,611
Advertising costs  5,034 4,912
Operating lease payments   5,887 5,520
Foreign exchange losses/(gains)  8,136 (2,562)
Packaging and carriage  16,130 15,134
Power costs  8,973 8,321
Repairs and maintenance  9,246 8,620
Other expenses  13,721 18,396
T otal costs of sales, selling and distribution costs and administrative expenses   475,347 448,573
The Group obtained and recognised as income a government grant of €395,000 (2012: €415,000), which was granted for a new facility 
in Plymouth, UK. The Group is obliged to employ a specific number of employees at the Plymouth site for at least the next 12 months 
under the terms of this government grant. 
Within these costs, €13,591,000 (2012: €11,331,000) relate to research and development costs. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
79
Auditors’ remuneration 
Services provided by the Company’ s auditors and network firms 
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’ s auditors at costs 
detailed below: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Fees payable to operating Company’ s auditors and its associates  
for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated accounts 237 120
Fees payable to operating Company’ s auditors and its associates for other services:  
The audit of the operating Company’ s subsidiaries 524 442
Audit-related assurance services:   
– Fees in relation to issue of secured notes – 725
– Fees in relation to IPO 1,134 –
– Fees in relation to benchmarking for remuneration arrangements 426 –
– Other fees 160 13
T otal audit-related assurance services 1,720 738
T ax compliance services 92 75
T ax advisory services 55 18
 2,628 1,393
For further discussion on non-audit services, refer to pages 30 to 31 (the  Audit Committee report). 
19 Employment costs 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Wages and salaries  141,636 133,361
Social security costs  18,708 17,923
Pension costs – defined contribution plans  3,883 2,954
Pension costs – defined benefit plans  27 715 728
Share options granted to Directors and employees  26 1,645 –
Total  166,587 154,966
 
Number of employees at end of year 2013 2012 
Manufacturing 1,950 1,728
Product development 150 120
Sales and marketing 820 770
Distribution 390 349
Administration 296 262
Total 3,606 3,229
 
Average number of employees during year 2013 2012 
Manufacturing 1,871 1,720
Product development 134 117
Sales and marketing 787 750
Distribution 376 345
Administration 275 255
Total 3,443 3,187 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
80 
20 Finance income and costs 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000 
Bank borrowings and related swaps (1,969) (12,136)
Secured notes (11,891) –
Accelerated write-down of transaction fees and early redemption fee (12,987) –
Preferred equity certificates  – (254)
Parent Company loan (74) (23)
Ordinary shares – Class A-II (34) (128)
Preference shares (4) (13)
Amortisation of transaction fees (2,697) (3,406)
Bank loans and overdrafts (11) (12)
Finance lease charges (220) (287)
Finance costs (29,887) (16,259)
Fair value gains on financial instruments:  
Cross currency interest rate swaps 1,012 285
Interest receivable on short-term bank deposits 441 653
Finance income 1,453 938
Net finance costs (28,434) (15,321)
21 Tax expense 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Current tax  18,558 15,130
Adjustments in respect of prior years  420 247
T otal current tax  18,978 15,377
Deferred tax    
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (5,508) 4,219
Impact of change in tax rates  41 (233)
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (821) (220)
T otal deferred tax  22 (6,288) 3,766
T ax expense  12,690 19,143
The tax on the Group’ s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the Parent Company tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Profit before tax 35,110 50,317
T ax calculated at Parent Company rate of tax: 23.25% (2012: 28.8%) 8,163 14,491
Permanent differences 674 2,998
Current year losses not recognised in period 2,407 475
Non-deductible interest 533 662
Other temporary differences unrecognised 283 314
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (401) 31
Overseas tax rate differences 1,944 1,577
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (913) (1,405)
T ax expense 12,690 19,143 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
81
The effective rate of taxation applied to underlying profit before tax for the year is 28.5% (2012: 30.3%). The following table shows a 
reconciliation of the tax expense on underlying profit (see Note 23) to the actual tax expense.  
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
 €’000
T ax expense on underlying profit before tax at effective rate 19,272 19,355
T ax credit on amortisation of intangibles (1,815) (1,905)
T ax credit on transaction costs (4,148) 2,181
T ax credit on one-off costs (619) (488)
T ax expense 12,690 19,143
22 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority . The offset amounts are as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Deferred tax assets:  
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months (5,792) (4,537)
 (5,792) (4,537)
 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
Deferred tax liabilities:  
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months 14,629 21,796
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months 9,003 6,728
 23,632 28,524
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 17,840 23,987
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012 
€’000
At 31 December  23,987 19,459
Income statement (credit)/charge  21 (6,288) 3,766
Credited to equity  (242) –
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income  413 (222)
Exchange differences  (30) 984
At 31 December  17,840 23,987
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
82 
22 Deferred tax continued 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year , after taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets), net 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
€’000 
Tax 
losses
 carried 
forward
€’000
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
€’000
Deferred 
tax on
 intangible 
assets
€’000
Deferred  
tax on 
transaction 
costs 
€’000 
Deferred  
tax on 
share 
based 
payments 
€’000 
Other
€’000
Total
€’000
At 31 December 2011 6,808 (730) (2,462) 20,072 – – (4,229) 19,459
Charged/(credited) to income statement 1,257 528 495 (1,905) 3,027 – 3643,766
Credited to other comprehensive income – – (222) – – – – (222)
Exchange differences (185) (1) 283 602 – – 285 984
At 31 December 2012 7,880 (203) (1,906) 18,769 3,027 – (3,580) 23,987
Charged/(credited) to income statement 60 9 (55) (1,815) (3,067) (306) (1,114) (6,288)
Credited to equity – – – – – (242) – (242)
Charged to other comprehensive income – – 413 – – – – 413
Exchange differences (424) 22 350 (510) 40 – 492 (30)
At 31 December 2013 7,516 (172) (1,198) 16,444 – (548) (4,202) 17,840
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through 
future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of €12,378,000 (2012: €14,233,000). 
23 Underlying profit before tax 
The underlying profit before tax is calculated as below: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Profit before tax  35,110 50,317
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6,790 6,790
T ransaction costs 15,314 7,536
Non-cash loss/(gain) on revaluation of intra-group loans 7,542 (2,564)
One-off costs 3,659 1,742
Gain on disposal of asset (902) –
Underlying profit before tax 67,513 63,821
One-off costs in the year to 31 December 2013 principally represent costs related to facility reorganisation in the US and termination 
costs in Europe. One-off costs in the year to 31 December 2012 principally represent costs related to facility reorganisation in France and 
termination costs in the Americas. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
83
24 Cash generated from operations 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Profit before tax  35,110 50,317
Adjustments for:   
Depreciation and amortisation 7, 8 28,675 28,000
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment (see below)  (409) (252)
Profit on disposal of asset held for sale  (902) –
Finance costs – net  20 28,434 15,321
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) on operating activities  18 8,136 (2,562)
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of exchange differences on consolidation):   
Inventories  (12,374) (5,439)
T rade and other receivables  (26,724) (12,798)
T rade and other payables  13,176 (3,732)
Cash generated from operations  73,122 68,855
In the statement of cash flows, proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment comprise: 
 Note 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Net book amount  7 335 599
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment  409 252
Proceeds from disposal of property , plant and equipment  744 851
25 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
 
Legal 
claims
€’000
At 1 January 2013 2,142
Unused amounts reversed in the period (429)
Amounts used in the period (344)
Additional provisions 34
At 31 December 2013 1,403
Analysis of total provisions: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Non-current – –
Current 1,403 2,142
T otal provisions 1,403 2,142
The amounts represent legal costs for claims brought against the operating Group relating to employee dismissals and other legal claims. 
The charge is recognised in the income statement within “administrative expenses”. The provisions at the end of each year are 
considered to be current since they relate to ongoing legal claims that could be settled at any time. In the Directors’ opinion, after taking 
legal advice, the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided at 31 December 
2013. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
84 
26 Share based payments 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had two plans involving share based payments, which are described below. These plans have been 
accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2, “Share based payments”.  
The compensation cost recognised in the Group’ s income statement in relation to share based payment plans is set out in the table below: 
 Expense recognised for the year 
 
2013  
€’000 
2012 
€’000
2013 Long T erm Incentive Plan 1,479 –
Global Share Plan – free shares 165 –
Global Share Plan – matching shares 1 –
 1,645 –
Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the 2013 Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) are as follows: 
 Options 
 
2013  
‘000 
2012 
‘000 
At 1 January  – –
Granted 3,868 –
Forfeited – –
Exercised – –
Expired – –
At 31 December 3,868 –
2013 Long T erm Incentive Plan 
Share options under the 2013 L TIP were issued to certain key management in three phases during the year , with those employees being 
granted nil-cost share options (restricted stock units in the US) dependent on meeting certain performance criteria. 50% of the shares are 
valued using the Black-Scholes model and the remaining 50% are valued based on the Monte Carlo model. Details of these can be 
found in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 43. These shares vest in three years from the date of grant. 
Global Share Plan 
The Global Share Plan (GSP) offers three ways to provide shares to employees: free shares; shares purchased using contributions from 
employees; and free matching shares. The free shares and matching shares are at a cost to the Group, and are described in more detail in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 35–36, and in summary below. 
Employee free shares 
Free shares were awarded to the majority of employees in the Group who had been employed for at least 12 months at the grant date, 
in two phases during the year , and these shares vest in three years from the date of grant.  
Matching shares 
A share matching scheme was established for certain Group employees in December 2013, with the intention to extend this to the 
remaining eligible employees in the Group in early 2014. For shares purchased by the employee on a monthly basis, the Company will 
match those shares up to a maximum annual amount. These shares vest in three years from the date of grant. 
Fair value and assumptions 
The fair value of the awards under the 2013 L TIP and the GSP is estimated at the grant date using either a Black-Scholes valuation or a 
Monte Carlo simulation, depending on the performance conditions that must be met for the award to vest. For the element of the share 
options based on earnings per share (EPS) growth or continuous employment, the Black-Scholes model has been used, and for the 
element of the share options based on the Company’ s total shareholder return (TSR), a Monte Carlo simulation has been used.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
85
The significant assumptions used in these valuation models are disclosed below: 
 GSP – free shares 2013 L TIP 
 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Date of grant 26 Apr 2013 20 May 2013 2 Apr 2013 20 May 2013 2 Sep 2013
Number of shares granted 79,400 288,351 1,813,187 1,146,082 537,476
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Dividend yield 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value per share at grant date (pence per share (pps)) 189p 223p 187p 223p 248p
Fair value per share with TSR performance condition (pps) – – 110p 130p 145p
All the share grants have a zero exercise price and have a vesting date of three years from the grant date.  
An estimated share price volatility rate of 31% has been used for grants in the period. This is based on the historic volatility of a 
comparator group of 20 FTSE 350 All Share companies, as there is no share price history available for the Group before April 2013. 
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds over three years as determined by the Bank of England, 
and the rate applied during the year was 0.3% to 0.9% depending on the grant date.  
The fair value of the share options for the matching share scheme is estimated as the share price at grant date. 
The fair values are calculated in Sterling as the shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange, and translated into Euro at the relevant 
exchange rates. 
27 Retirement benefit obligations 
 
Pension benefits 
The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan in Japan and South Africa based on employee pensionable remuneration and length 
of service. Plan assets are held in trusts or similar entities governed by local regulations and practice. These schemes cover 231 employees 
(2012: 218) with the balance of employees in the Group covered by optional defined contribution schemes where available. IAS 19 
(revised) was adopted in the previous year and as such no restatement of comparatives is necessary . 
a) Japan 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Balance sheet obligation for pension benefits 2,542 4,367
Income statement charge for pension benefits 641 683
Statement of other comprehensive income: remeasurements 862 (472)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Present value of funded obligations 8,778 10,648
Fair value of plan assets (6,236) (6,281)
Liability in the balance sheet 2,542 4,367
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
86 
27 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
 
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
At 1 January 10,648 10,525
Current service costs 571 649
Interest costs 187 205
Remeasurements: experience (gains)/losses (139) 729
Exchange (gains)/losses (2,345) (1,389)
Benefits paid (144) (71)
At 31 December 8,778 10,648
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
At 1 January 6,281 5,864
Interest income 110 171
Remeasurements: return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 723 257
Exchange losses (1,343) (744)
Employer contributions 609 804
Benefits paid (144) (71)
At 31 December 6,236 6,281
 
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 
 2013 2012
Discount rate 2.0% 1.4%
Inflation rate 0.0% 0.0%
Future salary increases 2.0% 2.0%
Future pension increases 7.0% 7.0%
In 2013, the life expectancies for women and men in Japan were 86 years and 80 years respectively (2012: 86 years and 80 years). 
For HellermannT yton Japan, the official retirement age is 60. For employees retiring from HellermannT yton Japan at 60 years of age, 
there is a choice in respect of their pensions. They can elect to receive a lump sum payment or choose to have the pension paid to 
them in instalments spread over five to ten years. Where employees choose to receive the money in instalments, these are paid quarterly 
from the pension fund over the specified duration (minimum five years, maximum ten years). As there are no options for pensions to be 
paid out over more than ten years (or conversely paid out over less than four years, except in the case of a lump sum payment), life 
expectancy is not factored into the calculations. 
b) South Africa 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Balance sheet asset for pension benefits 1,103 619
Income statement charge for pension benefits 74 45
Statement of other comprehensive income: remeasurements  572 (300)
 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
87
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Present value of funded obligations (2,304) (3,549)
Fair value of plan assets 3,407 4,168
Asset on the balance sheet 1,103 619
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
At 1 January 3,549 3,165
Current service costs 120 147
Interest costs 231 275
Remeasurements: 
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (172) 492
Experience (gains)/losses (362) (204)
 (534) 288
Exchange gains (838) (223)
Benefits paid (231) (137)
Member contributions 35 58
Risk premiums (28) (24)
At 31 December 2,304 3,549
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows: 
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
At 1 January 4,168 3,988
Interest income 277 377
Remeasurements: return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 38 (12)
Exchange losses (969) (273)
Employer contributions 117 191
Benefits paid (231) (137)
Member contributions 35 58
Risk premiums (28) (24)
At 31 December 3,407 4,168
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 
 2013 2012
Discount rate 9.80% 7.75%
Inflation rate 7.20% 5.00%
Future salary increases 8.20% 6.00%
Future pension increases 5.76% 4.00%
The average life expectancy of a pensioner retiring at 65 is 17 years for a man (2012: 17 years) and 21 years for a woman (2012: 21 years). 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
88 
27 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is as follows: 
 
Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 
Change in 
assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption
Discount rate 1.0% Decrease by 13.69% Increase by 20.47%
Inflation rate 1.0% Increase by 18.07% Decrease by 12.38%
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur , and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
within the balance sheet. 
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year . 
28 Operating lease commitments 
The Group leases various office, warehouse and factory space under non-cancellable operating leases. The lease terms are between three 
and ten years, and the majority are renewable at the end of the lease at market rates. 
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under cancellable operating leases. The lease expenditure charged to the income 
statement in the year is disclosed in Note 18. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments, which fall due as follows:  
 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
In respect of land and buildings  
Within one year 3,305 3,474
In the second to fifth years 5,169 6,547
Over five years 2,306 4,825
 10,780 14,846
In respect of plant and equipment  
Within one year 1,010 865
In the second to fifth years 987 1,099
 1,997 1,964
29 Related party transactions 
T ransactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are exempt 
from disclosure in accordance with IAS 24.  
T rading transactions 
Group companies did not enter into trading transactions with related parties that are not members of the Group. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
89
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the Board (including Non-executive Directors) and Regional Presidents, who are the key management personnel of 
the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories. 
 
2013 
€'000 
2012
€'000
Short-term employee benefits 3,366 2,998
Post-employment benefits  112 99
Share based payments 483 –
 3,961 3,097
Loans from related parties 
The following balances are due to related parties at the year end: 
 Ultimate controlling party 
Loan from 
immediate 
Parent 
Company 
A-II ordinary 
shares 
Mandatory 
redeemable 
preference 
shares 
At 1 January 2012 97,185 34,034 211,179
Interest 2,916 64 6,335
At 31 December 2012 100,101 34,098 217,514
Interest 686 9 1,480
Repayments (100,787) (34,107)(218,994)
At 31 December 2013 – – –
Details of these balances are contained in Note 17. 
The Directors consider that the Company’ s ultimate controlling party at 31 December 2012 was Doughty Hanson and Co Managers 
Limited, the manager and adviser to the Doughty Hanson Funds. Following the IPO, there is now no controlling party . 
On 29 November 2012, HellermannT yton Alpha S.à r .l. novated its obligation under the PECs to HellermannT yton S.à r .l. in exchange for 
a shareholder loan for the same value. 
Following the IPO in March 2013, the related party shares and loans were repaid. 
30 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
By activity 
2013 
€’000 
2012
€’000
Capital expenditure commitments contracted but not provided:  
Property , plant and equipment 13,166 8,000
31 Events after the balance sheet date 
On 26 February 2014, the Group entered an agreement to refinance its debt structure. The secured notes will be repaid in full within 
30 days of this date with bank borrowings of €200 million being drawn down from a five year revolving credit facility of €230 million. 
There were no other significant events after the balance sheet date.  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent auditors’ report  
to the Members of HellermannT yton Group PLC 
90 
Report on the Parent Company financial 
statements 
 
Our opinion  
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company's 
affairs as at 31 December 2013; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below. 
What we have audited 
The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by 
HellermannT yton Group PLC, comprise: 
• the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013; 
and 
• the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have 
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they 
have made assumptions and considered future events. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework 
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and 
Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the 
financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’ s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors; and  
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report. 
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent 
Company financial statements; and 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006. 
Other matters on which we are required to report 
by exception 
 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company , or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law have not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility . 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
 
 
91
Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
Parent Company financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit 
 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors  
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’ s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
HellermannT yton Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013.  
Rosemary Shapland  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Gatwick 
28 February 2014 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2013 
92 
 Note 
2013 
€’000
Fixed assets  
Investment in subsidiaries 3 374,769
  374,769
Current assets  
Debtors due within one year 4 7,869
Cash at bank and in hand  23,125
  30,994
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Other creditors 5 (1,087)
  (1,087)
Net current assets  29,907
T otal assets less current liabilities  404,676
Net assets  404,676
Capital and reserves  
Ordinary shares 6 2,154
Capital redemption reserve 6 100
Retained earnings 6 402,422
T otal shareholders’ funds  404,676
The notes on pages 93–95 are an integral part of these Company financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 92–95 were approved by the Board on 28 February 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: 
David Newlands Tim Jones 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registered number: 08409650  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013  
93
1 Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
HellermannT yton Group PLC (“the Company”) was incorporated on 19 February 2013. T o facilitate the Admission, the entire issued 
share capital of HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. was acquired by the Company . Prior to this restructuring, the business was conducted 
solely through HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. and its subsidiaries. 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Accounting Standards, 
and under the historical cost convention. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare its own profit and loss 
account. The Company’ s loss for the year before tax is €539,000. 
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year , are set out below. 
Investments 
Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment where a permanent diminution in value has been identified. 
Foreign currencies 
The Company has chosen to present the financial statements in Euros. The functional currency of the Company is the Euro. 
T ransactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transactions. 
Share based payments 
The Company operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans and has applied the requirements of IFRS 2,  
“Share based payments”. 
Grants of shares to employees are measured at fair value at the grant date and expensed over the relevant vesting period, based on an 
estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the 
revision of the original estimates, if any , is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimates with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings, these awards are accounted for 
by the Company as an additional investment in its subsidiary. 
Other debtors 
Other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. 
Pension contributions 
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for employees. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those 
of the Company . The annual contributions payable are charged to the profit and loss account. 
Taxation 
Deferred taxation is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance 
sheet date. Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing 
differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
Dividends 
Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by the shareholders at the AGM. Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid. 
 
  HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued 
94 
2 Employee information 
Employee costs are borne by HellermannT yton Limited. For details of Directors’ remuneration, refer to disclosure in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
3 Investments in subsidiaries 
Cost and net book value 
2013
€’000
At incorporation –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 373,124
Share based payments 1,645
At 31 December 2013 374,769
A list of the principal subsidiaries which affected the Group’ s profits and net assets is set out below. A full list of the subsidiary 
undertakings will be filed with the next annual return. 
Principal subsidiaries Principal activity Location  
Equity interest 
at 
31 December 
2013
HellermannT yton Holdings Ltd* Holding company Crawley , UK 100%
HellermannT yton Alpha S.à r .l.  Holding company Luxembourg 100%
HellermannT yton Beta S.à r .l.  Holding company Luxembourg 100%
HellermannT yton Finance PLC Finance company Crawley , UK 100%
HellermannT yton Ltd Manufacturing Manchester , UK 100%
HellermannT yton GmbH Manufacturing T ornesch, Germany 100%
HellermannT yton SAS Manufacturing Trappes, France 100%
HellermannT yton AB Distribution and warehousing Jarfalla, Sweden 100%
HellermannT yton (Pty) Ltd Manufacturing Johannesburg, South Africa 100%
HellermannT yton GmbH Distribution and warehousing Vienna, Austria 100%
HellermannT yton Ltda Manufacturing Jundiaí, Brazil 100%
HellermannT yton Pte Ltd Manufacturing Yishun, Singapore 100%
HellermannT yton Data Ltd Manufacturing Northampton, UK 100%
HellermannT yton Corporation Manufacturing Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA 100%
HellermannT yton Co., Ltd Manufacturing T okyo, Japan 100%
* Subsidiary owned directly 
4 Debtors 
Amounts due within one year 
2013
€’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,624
Other debtors 182
Prepayments 63
Total 7,869
Amounts owed by Group undertakings relate to trading balances and are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
   HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview O O O O Ov v v ve e e er r r rv v v vi i i ie e e ew w w w Strategic report S S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gi i i ic c c c r r r r re e e ep p p p po o o or r r rt t t t Governance G G G G Gov ov ov ove e e er r r rn n n na a a an n n nc c c ce e e e Financial statements Other information O O O O Ot t t th h h he e e er r r r i i i in n n n nf f f for or or orma ma ma mat t t tio io io ion n n n
  
95
5 Creditors 
Amounts falling due within one year 
2013
€’000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,034
T rade creditors 53
Total 1,087
Amounts owed to Group undertakings relate to trading balances and are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
6 Share capital and retained earnings 
 
 
Number of 
shares
 ‘000
Ordinary 
shares 
€’000
Share 
premium
 €’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
€’000 
Retained 
earnings 
€’000
Total 
€’000
At incorporation – – – – – – –
Issue of ordinary shares 215,308 2,153 404,252 – – – 406,405
Issue of preference shares 100 – – 100 – – 100
Capital reduction – – (404,252) – – 404,252 –
Redemption of preference shares (100) – – (100) 100 (100) (100)
Issue of shares for free share scheme 80 1 – – – – 1
Profit for the year – – – – – (540) (540)
Dividends paid – – – – – (2,835) (2,835)
Share based payments – – – – – 1,645 1,645
At 31 December 2013 215,388 2,154 – – 100 402,422 404,676
For further details of the share capital, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 
7 Dividends 
For details of the dividends, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. 
8 Share based payments 
For details of the share based payments, see Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
 
  Shareholder information
Secretary and registered ofﬁce 
Hayley Whitehead 
Stoner House 
London Road 
Crawley RH10 8LJ 
Phone +44 (0)1293 608905 
Fax +44 (0)1293 531715 
Website: www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com  
Registered in England and Wales number 08409650
Ordinary shares
The Company’s shares are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Registrars
All enquiries concerning existing shareholdings, change of 
address or lost share certiﬁcates should be directed to Equiniti 
using any of the methods below:
In writing: 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
By telephone: 
0871 384 2030 (if calling from the UK); or 
+44 (0)121 415 7047 (if calling from overseas) 
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Financial calendar
Year ended 
31 December 2013
Six months ending 
30 June 2014
Results announced 3 March 2014
Late 
August 2014
Reports posted 21 March 2014 –
Ex-dividend date 12 March 2014
Early 
September 2014
Dividend record 
date 14 March 2014
Early 
September 2014
Annual 
general meeting 30 April 2014 –
Dividend 
payment date 7 May 2014 Mid October 2014
Final dates and any changes will be notiﬁed as appropriate. 
The Company’s results announcements are published through 
the London Stock Exchange. All announcements and Annual 
Reports are available on the Group’s investor relations website 
at www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com. 
Electronic communications
Shareholders can also view up-to-date information 
about their shareholding and register to receive future 
electronic communications from the Company by visiting 
www.shareview.co.uk (shareholder reference number,  
shown on share certiﬁcate and tax vouchers, will be required). 
Alternatively shareholders may elect to receive notiﬁcation  
by email of the publication of ﬁnancial reports by registering 
on www.shareview.co.uk. 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
The Portland Building 
25 High Street 
Crawley RH10 1BG
Solicitors
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (UK) LLP 
40 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5DS
Joint stockbrokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
29th Floor, 25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB
Principal banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland 
PO Box 412 
62–63 Threadneedle Street 
London EC2R 8LA
Identity theft
Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your 
shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding:
 Ensure that all your certiﬁcates are kept in a safe place or 
hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
 Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows 
your shareholder reference number in a safe place, or 
destroy correspondence by shredding.
 If you change address, inform the registrars. If you receive a 
letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and 
have not recently moved, please contact them immediately. 
You may be the victim of identity theft.
 If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in your country of residence or the UK.
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 96 Warning to shareholders
Over the last year, many companies have become aware that 
their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters which imply 
a connection to the company concerned. These are typically 
from overseas-based “brokers” who target UK shareholders 
offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or 
high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and 
a 2006 survey by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
(formerly the Financial Services Authority) has reported that the 
average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not 
just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many 
of the victims had been successfully investing for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
 – Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation and make a record of any other information 
they give you, e.g. telephone number, address etc. 
 – Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before 
getting involved. You can check at www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
 – The FCA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised 
overseas ﬁrms which are targeting, or have targeted, 
UK investors and any approach from such organisations 
should be reported to the FCA so that this list can be 
kept up to date and any other appropriate action can 
be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised ﬁrm, 
you would not be eligible to receive payment under the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FCA can, 
preferably, be contacted by completing an online form at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams or, if you do not have access to the 
internet, on 0800 111 6768. 
Deﬁnitions
AGM: Annual general meeting
Bribery Act: Bribery Act 2010 (UK)
CAGR: Compound annual growth rate
CGU: Cash generating unit
CO
2
e: Carbon dioxide equivalent
CREST: Central Securities Depository (for Guernsey, Jersey, 
Ireland, Isle of Man and UK)
CSR: Corporate social responsibility
Defra: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EBITA: Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation
EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa
EPS: Earnings per share
ERP: Enterprise resource planning
ETFE: Ethylene tetraﬂuoroethylene 
EU: European Union
Euribor: Euro interbank offered rate
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act: Foreign Corrupt Practices  
Act of 1977 (US)
GAAP: Generally accepted accounting principles
GSP: Global Share Plan
IAS: International Accounting Standards
IFRIC: International Financial Reporting Standards 
Interpretations Committee
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards
IPO: Initial Public Offering
ISO: International Standards Organisation
KPI: Key Performance Indicator
kV: Kilovolt
LAN: Local area network
LTI: Long Term Incentive
LTIP: Long Term Incentive Plan
LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate
MTF: Multilateral trading facility
OCI: Other comprehensive income
OEM: Original equipment manufacturer
PA66: Polyamide 66 (“Nylon”)
pps: Pence per share
PVC: Polyvinyl chloride
RCF: Revolving credit facility
RoHS: Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances 
in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 (UK)
SKU: Stock keeping unit
STI: Short Term Incentive
WAN: Wide area network
WEEE: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 
2013 (UK)
HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Ov ver ervi view ew Strategic report St tra rate tegi gic c re epo port r Governance Go ove vern rnan ance ce Financial statements Fi ina nanc n ia al l st tat atem emen ents ts Other information HellermannTyton Group PLC 
Stoner House 
London Road 
Crawley 
West Sussex  
RH10 8LJ 
United Kingdom
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com
This report has been printed on Edixion 
Challenger Offset which is FSC
®
 certiﬁed 
and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine 
Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the printer are 
both certiﬁed to ISO 14001 environmental 
management system and registered to 
EMAS the eco management Audit Scheme. 
The report was printed using vegetable 
based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer.
