 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report
Introduction 01
HellermannTyton at a glance 02
Chief Executive’s statement 04
A proven strategy to deliver growth 05
Industry structural growth drivers 06
End-markets and customers 08
Comprehensive cable management 
solutions
09
Business model 12
Case studies 14
Business review 16
Key performance indicators 18
Principal risks and uncertainties 19
Corporate social responsibility 20
Governance
Board of Directors 22
Chairman’s statement 23
Corporate governance report 24
Nomination Committee report 28
Audit Committee report 29
Directors’ remuneration report 33
Directors’ report 47
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 50
Group income statement 55
Group statement of comprehensive 
income
55
Group balance sheet 56
Group statement of changes in equity 57
Group statement of cash flows 58
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
59
Independent auditors’ report 91
Company balance sheet 93
Notes to the Company financial 
statements
94
Other information
Shareholder information 98
Abbreviations 100
Contents 1
Introduction
Find out more at  
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com
HellermannTyton is a market-leading global manufacturer and 
supplier of high-performance and innovative cable management 
solutions for fastening, identifying, insulating, protecting, organising, 
routing and connecting components.
The Group builds long-term value through its established relationships 
with its industrial customer base. This is underpinned by its focus 
on high levels of quality and customer service, together with its 
commitment to providing innovative products and solutions to meet 
the demanding needs of its customers.
The Group’s clearly articulated strategy and distinctive business 
model position HellermannTyton to deliver strong long-term 
performance and attractive annual returns to its shareholders. HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2
Sales office
HellermannTyton at a glance
Provider of cable management solutions to customers worldwide
Globally integrated, but with a strong local presence, the Group provides an extensive 
range of cable management products and solutions to meet the demanding needs  
of OEMs and end-users in diverse end-markets. For more details of our customers, 
markets and solutions see pages 8 to 1 1.
Manufacturing, 
Sales & Logistics
Sales & Logistics
5.63
Final dividend (cents) 
2013: 5.23
8.45
Total dividend (cents) 
2013: total dividend not 
comparable*
596.9
Revenue (€ million)
2013: 538.0
*  The 2013 total dividend includes the interim dividend which was  
pro-rated from the period from admission to the London Stock Exchange  
to 30 June 2013 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 3
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
20,000+
Products in more than  
70,000 SKUs
 
Revenue by geography € million 
1. EMEA
2. Americas
3. Asian
 
1
2
3
313.2
148.3
135.4
Revenue by market € million 
1. Electrical
2. Automotive
3. Datacom & Other
 
249.1
301.2
46.6
1
2
3
 
3,808
Employees worldwide
35
Direct sales operations  
in 35 countries
12
Primary manufacturing  
locations in ten countries HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s statement
Performance
2014 was another year of profitable 
growth for HellermannTyton against a 
background of mixed economic conditions. 
The Group’s revenue of €596.9 million 
increased by 13.5% in constant currency 
and 10.9% at reported rates compared 
with 2013. Encouragingly, this growth is 
not attributable to any one geography, 
customer, project win or product launch, 
and it primarily reflects the increased 
volume of sales in all of the Group’s 
segments. Underlying EBITA and 
underlying EBITDA were €90.4 million and 
€1 15.7 million respectively, with margins 
remaining strong at 15.2% (underlying 
EBITA) and 19.4% (underlying EBITDA). 
Operating profit increased to €82.9 million 
in 2014 from €63.5 million in 2013.
The net debt position on 31 December 
2014 was €161.1 million. This included cash 
and cash equivalents of €57.4 million. 
Underlying basic earnings per share 
(EPS) for the year were 26.08 cents 
(2013: 22.81 cents). Reported basic EPS 
were 23.66 cents and reported diluted EPS 
were 22.99 cents. The Board is proposing 
a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share, 
which is an increase of 7.6% compared to 
the 2013 final dividend, and in addition to 
the interim dividend of 2.82 cents per share. 
The final dividend will be paid on 6 May 
2015, subject to approval at the AGM.
Employees
HellermannTyton relies on the skills and 
expertise of its employees worldwide and 
the results for 2014 would not have been 
achieved without the commitment and 
dedication of our whole team, to whom 
I would like to give my sincere thanks. 
We recognise the importance of ensuring 
a sustainable business through a strategy 
of managing, developing and recruiting 
people who support the Group’s values 
and contribute to our growth. We seek to 
ensure diversity amongst our workforce and 
utilise fully the talent pool available to us. 
The retirements of Marco da Costa 
and Masayuki Ishikawa after many 
successful years with HellermannTyton 
meant that there were changes to the 
Executive Committee during the year. 
Their responsibilities have been taken over 
by Alexandro Zavarizi, Toshi Tsukamoto and 
Heng Lee, who have extensive experience 
in the Group, putting them in an excellent 
position to continue the delivery of the 
growth potential of HellermannTyton in 
their respective regions.
Strategy
We have continued to deliver good progress 
against our strategic priorities during 2014. 
This includes expanding our global presence 
and strengthening our sales operations by, 
for instance, opening an office in the United 
Arab Emirates to better service the rising 
demand for our products and solutions in 
the Middle East region. 
Our development and technical sales teams 
around the world have been successful in 
gaining the specification of our products by 
customers on many upcoming platforms, 
such as the Volvo SPA platform which goes 
into production in 2015. 
Our world-class marketing activities are 
delivering a strong pipeline of projects. 
We have had a strong presence at 
important trade shows for our industry, 
as well as participating at our customers’ 
in-house exhibitions, and we are at the 
leading edge of e-business capabilities 
in our industry with, for instance, mobile 
solutions that provide real benefits and 
efficiencies to end-users. 
We have continued to extend our range 
of cable management products in order to 
provide more comprehensive solutions and 
increase our customer penetration, such 
as with the launch of a new LightGuide 
protection system for fibre in the 
Datacom market. 
We have invested in increasing our capacity 
and in delivering world-class operational 
excellence. This included the start of the 
expansion of the Good Hope Road facility 
in Milwaukee, and investment in new and 
replacement moulding machines.
Outlook for 2015
As global industrial production increases, 
we expect to benefit from this and positive 
underlying structural growth drivers. We will 
therefore continue to expand our capacity 
and footprint during 2015. Our programme 
of capital investment is designed to ensure 
we extend our reach and deliver sustainable 
growth, as we concentrate on providing 
innovative cable management solutions and 
high levels of service to our customer base.
2015 has started well, with the Group 
focusing on delivering growth through 
broadly based initiatives.
Steve Salmon
Chief Executive
Final dividend (cents)
5.63
2013: 5.23
Our world-class 
marketing activities 
are delivering 
a strong pipeline 
of projects. 
Underlying basic EPS (cents)
26.08
2013: 22.81 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 5
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
A proven strategy to deliver growth
The Board of Directors is responsible for strategy and monitoring the 
Group’s progress against strategic objectives. Executive management 
is responsible for implementing strategy through a sustainable 
business model, which is effective and decentralised, and designed to 
maximise responsiveness to local market conditions and to minimise 
central overhead costs.
Strategic focus
The Group is committed to continue 
delivering long-term revenue growth of 
between 3% and 4% above the growth in 
global industrial production. In the five-year 
period since 2009, the Group has achieved 
a constant currency revenue growth of 
approximately 14% CAGR.
HellermannTyton is well placed to take 
advantage of underlying structural growth 
opportunities, given its broad range of 
solutions and market-leading position in its 
core geographies. Further details of these 
industry growth drivers are provided on 
pages 6 and 7.
HellermannTyton’s aim is to continue 
to extend its leadership in the cable 
management industry and to be its 
customers’ partner of choice by providing 
consistent, high-quality, reliable and 
innovative solutions, as well as strong 
customer service. The following are key 
elements of the Group’s strategy:
 > focus on providing cable 
management solutions for 
chosen markets
 > design and produce innovative 
products and solutions
 > strengthen presence in geographies 
with high growth opportunities
 > increase customer penetration
 > focus on areas with the highest 
growth potential within the chosen 
market segments
 > continue to invest in the Group’s 
infrastructure to maintain high 
service levels whilst minimising 
overall cost at the point of delivery
A key aspect of the Group’s strategy is to 
have an extensive range of products that 
enables it to provide comprehensive cable 
management solutions to its customers. 
Although focused on cable management, 
HellermannTyton’s products are often 
not unique to a particular end-market or 
geography and it aims to identify new 
opportunities for its solutions that enable 
it to scale up its successes through mass 
customisation. The Group has considerable 
expertise and capabilities to develop and 
introduce innovative new products and 
solutions where opportunities are identified. 
Through its understanding of local 
and regional industry requirements, its 
technical expertise, broad product portfolio 
and strong operational capabilities, the 
Group intends to take advantage of the 
opportunities in its markets to further 
increase its market share by focusing 
on areas with high growth potential, 
strengthening its presence in higher 
growth geographies and increasing 
customer penetration. 
For example, the Group expects to benefit 
from the increasing demand for cable 
management solutions in higher growth 
end-markets such as alternative energy 
and mass transit, where the Group already 
provides a strong range of products. 
High levels of quality and service are 
essential to ensuring HellermannTyton’s 
position as a leader in cable management 
and the Group therefore invests in its 
infrastructure to maintain this position.
Overall, the Group believes that 
its strategy will help it meet its 
objective of outperforming growth in 
underlying industrial production levels. 
Oxford Economics has forecast that global 
industrial production will grow at a CAGR 
of 3.2% in the period from 2014 to 2018.
The case studies on pages 14 and 15 provide 
specific examples of how the key elements of 
the strategy address specific structural growth 
drivers to deliver strategic objectives. HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6
Strategic report
Industry structural growth drivers
Increasing functionality
 
End-users and consumers demand 
ever-increasing amounts of safety and 
comfort features and functionality from 
the equipment and appliances that 
they use or encounter. This increases 
the amount of wired infrastructure. 
HellermannTyton estimates, for example, 
that the front carriage of a high speed 
train typically contains around 30km of 
wire and cable. 
Similar trends exist in cars where the 
amount of wire and cable has increased 
from a couple of hundred metres in 
the 1960s to several kilometres today. 
In aircraft or ships it can be many 
hundreds of kilometres.
All of this requires cable management, 
and, as every platform and type of 
equipment is different, each design needs 
its own unique solution.
Structural growth drivers 
 > Increasing end-user demand for safety, 
comfort and functionality, driving up the 
content of cable and wiring, all of which 
need cable management solutions
 > Deeper penetration of these expectations 
in emerging economies
Environmental factors
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
($ billion)
Cumulative global investment in renewable energies 
Source: Renewable Energy Policy Network
 
The drive to increase fuel efficiency and to 
reduce emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) 
and other compounds are favourable 
trends for HellermannTyton. 
One example is the drive to reduce 
the weight of cars and mass transit to 
improve fuel efficiency that is resulting in 
the replacement of metal components 
with lighter plastic ones. Leading-edge 
materials technology is often needed to 
ensure these solutions are suitable for 
the demands placed on them.
Another example is the replacement of 
fossil fuels in power generation, which 
creates some high growth end-markets 
for HellermannTyton to target, such as 
wind and solar where components are 
exposed to demanding conditions such 
as extremes of weather and long-term 
exposure to corrosion. 
Structural growth drivers 
 > Improving fuel economy by replacing metal 
parts with lighter plastic components
 > High growth of investment in renewable 
energy sources such as solar and wind in order 
to reduce CO2 emissions and diversify sources 
of power generation
1
2
3
Urbanisation and growing middle classes
0 2 4 6 8
Consuming classes
Source: McKinsey Global Institute
Deﬁnition: Consuming classes are people with incomes high enough 
to become signiﬁcant consumers of goods and services.
Below consuming classes
2025
2010
1990
1970
1950
1900
4.2
2.4
1.2
0.9
0.3
0.1
3.7
4.4
4.0
2.8
2.2
1.5
(billions)
World population
 
Urbanisation drives the need for 
investment in infrastructure such as 
railways and airports, with corresponding 
investment in rolling stock and aircraft 
to meet the transportation needs of 
the population. 
Also, more people in emerging 
economies are moving into income 
segments where the consumption of 
goods and services increases rapidly. 
These populations have sufficient 
disposable income to buy discretionary 
items such as white goods and 
cars, all of which have power and 
data requirements.
All these trends help drive the need 
for increasing volumes of products 
and equipment that require cable 
management solutions.
Structural growth drivers 
 > Increased investment in mass transit 
infrastructure and growth in air travel 
 > Increasing disposable incomes fuelling 
discretionary purchases including cars and 
white goods
 > Higher aspirations and expectations of 
consumers in terms of reliability, comfort 
and functionality  Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 7
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6
 
As the automotive industry strives to 
achieve economies of scale and efficient 
product launches, major OEMs are 
increasingly focusing on manufacturing 
a larger proportion of passenger cars 
on global platforms. These platforms 
are used to design and produce vehicles 
across segments and brands on a global 
scale. For example, in 2011, General 
Motors announced that, by 2018, it 
will cut its vehicle architecture by 50%, 
meaning more cars will be built on more 
standardised global platforms. 
Globalisation strategies exist in other 
industries such as the consolidation of the 
electrical wholesale market, which benefit 
strategic suppliers to the larger customers 
in those industries.
Global design, manufacturing and 
supply chain capabilities are therefore 
all key elements that are increasingly 
important to customers when choosing 
their suppliers.
Structural growth drivers 
 > Increasing focus of OEMs manufacturing  
larger volumes of passenger cars on  
select global platforms
 > International tendering of projects, but with 
the need for local content
 > Consolidation of customer base 
Globalisation
Mega platforms (1m+)
Large platforms (500k – 1m)
0
Other
2018
(Millions)
2013
2007
Global light vehicle production
100 120 80 60 40 20
Source: IHS
5
4
 
Reduction in number of vendors
OEMs have been increasingly limiting 
the number of suppliers on their new 
programmes and requiring collaborative 
partners with design and development 
capabilities. This is an established trend in 
the car industry, where Ford announced 
in 2013 its aim to reduce its number of 
component suppliers from 1,260 in 2012 
to 750. It is also a strong trend in other 
industries, including aerospace, meaning 
that OEMs are increasingly looking for 
suppliers that can provide all their cable 
management needs and deliver added 
value in terms of design and development 
of integrated solutions. 
Structural growth drivers 
 > OEMs reducing number of suppliers 
in order to simplify supply chains and 
improve efficiency
 > Wholesalers and distributors consolidating 
purchase of cable management products 
with strategic suppliers
A330 (1994) A350 (2014)
CRJ 700-900 (2001) CSeries (2014)
Trent 500 (2002)
Rolls-Royce
Bombardier
Airbus
Trent XWB (2014)
0 250 200 150 100 50
(Number of suppliers)
Vendor reduction in the 
aerospace industry
Source: Deloitte
Evolving customer and industry standards
 
Safety and performance are critical to 
manufactured products. Consequently, 
industries such as aerospace, railway, 
defence and automotive have standards 
which reflect their specific requirements. 
For example, the automotive industry 
TS16949 certification is a prerequisite 
to supply many automotive customers. 
Additionally, many customers have their 
own specific requirements.
There are also standards for products 
such as those that, for example, limit 
the amount of hazardous materials 
they contain. 
New standards are continually being 
introduced whilst existing standards 
evolve, resulting in more opportunities for 
HellermannTyton to introduce innovative 
solutions and creating more barriers to 
new entrants.
Structural growth drivers
 > Manufacturers are required to meet an 
increasing number of industry and customer 
standards and approvals
 > Increasing focus on safety and reliability driving 
up the need for more product compliance 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Timeline for implementation of nationwide emissions standards for gasoline light duty vehicles
Year of implementation (all sales and registrations)
Brazil
China
European Union
Australia
Russia
United States
L-5 L-6
China 3
Euro 3
Euro 4
Euro 4
Core Euro 5/Full Euro 5
China 4 China 5
Euro 6
Euro 5
Euro 6
Euro 5a/Euro 5b
Tier 2
Euro 4
Tier 3 (Phase-in)
Source: International Council on Clean Transportation HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8
Solar energy Wind energy Rail transportation Automotive
Electrical installation Aerospace Industrial automation Electronics
Oil and gas
Truck and bus
Shipbuilding
Agricultural equipment
Defence
Mining equipment
Telecommunications
White goods
Each industry has its own cable management needs with its own requirements  
in terms of specification, design, quality, reliability, service and installation efficiency. 
HellermannTyton uses its comprehensive product range and world-class technical 
leadership to create customised solutions to the cable management needs of its 
worldwide customer base.
These solutions are specified by the OEMs and installers, then delivered directly to their 
production lines, their tier suppliers or via the wholesale and distribution channels.
Strategic report
End-markets and customers Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 9
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Protection
Comprehensive cable management solutions
Example: Wire harnesses for vehicles
The complex electrical architecture 
in vehicles requires wire harnesses 
with cable management products 
specified and approved by the OEM
HellermannTyton produces a comprehensive 
range of cable management solutions that 
are assembled directly onto vehicles or wire 
harnesses as required
Insulation Identification Application tools
The wire harnesses are assembled 
by harness makers, often in a low 
labour cost country or region
Fixings HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10
Strategic report
Comprehensive cable management solutions continued
4
 Cable clamps for heavy 
load applications made of 
impact-resistant polyamide 
provide the best durability 
in extreme climatic 
conditions.
5
 The HelaGuard range 
includes hoses, fastening 
clamps and screw 
connections in a variety of 
designs and specifications, 
to protect wires and cables 
in almost every application. 
9
 Glass fibre splicing joints 
provide secure routing and 
connection of sensitive 
glass fibre cable networks 
in wind farms. Numerous 
sizes and configurations 
enable customised 
solutions.
2 
 Heat shrinkable tubing 
has very good electrical 
insulation properties and 
physical strength. 
Suitable for cable joints 
and termination in 
the tower segment.
3
 Spiral hoses are very 
robust and can withstand 
strong mechanical forces. 
They ensure reliable line 
protection especially in 
the hollow shaft between 
the hub and gearbox. 
6
 The HellermannTyton 
Loop Spacer designed 
specifically to ensure 
optimal routing and 
reduced abrasion of high 
voltage cables in the tower.
7
 TIPTAG identification 
plates were developed 
especially for permanent 
loading under tough 
conditions suitable for 
marking large diameter 
hydraulic hoses, and cables 
for drives or power cables.
Example: Wind turbine industry
HellermannTyton’s product range covers cable management requirements within the wind 
turbine, as well as the network infrastructure of the wind farm. Where necessary, these are 
fireproof and resistant to UV weathering, extreme temperature and vibrations. The Group’s 
technical experts work directly with customers to develop optimised solutions, and then 
seek opportunities to scale up the success with other customers or markets.
8
 RapidNet is the 
innovative solution used 
for minimising wind park 
control centre installation 
times. The modular, 
pluggable system consists 
of pre-assembled 
point-to-point connections 
made of glass fibre and the 
latest copper technologies.
1
 Cable ties make it easy 
to secure cables in many 
demanding applications – 
e.g. for fastening power 
and energy cables in the 
nacelle on top of the 
tower segment.
4
3
1
5
2
6
7
9
8 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 11
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
1
 Cable ties are available in 
different materials to allow 
cables to be easily bundled 
and secured throughout the 
air frame in applications 
requiring high weather 
resistance, heat stability or 
fire protection.
4
 Dual swivel connecting 
elements can be rotated 
through 360° allowing 
wires, tubing or cable 
bundles to be aligned to 
each other whilst keeping 
them apart, e.g. the air 
conditioning piping in 
the fuselage.
5
 The outside serrated 
cable ties are best suited 
for sensitive cable bundles. 
Designed to withstand 
high temperatures and 
increased fire protection 
requirements; these are 
often used on the wings.
9
 Wide range of heat 
shrinkable moulded shapes 
for numerous applications 
including the engine – from 
straight and right-angled 
plug-in connector end bells 
to multi-pronged splitters 
and spreader and end caps. 
Example: Aerospace industry
Current conditions in the aerospace industry, with a focus on fuel efficiency, mean 
that products must be light yet sturdy, and display space-saving capabilities whilst 
withstanding the highest mechanical loads. HellermannTyton products are distinguished 
by their extreme stability, durability, resilience, resistance to heat and cold, shock resistance,  
fire safety, resistance to UV and weathering, as well as their weight-saving properties. 
2
 Helagaine expandable 
braided sleeves, made of 
meta-aramid, protect the 
cables in the most extreme 
conditions such as high 
temperatures, abrasion, 
radiation or exposure to 
water and oil.
3
 Heat shrinkable tubing is 
available in a range of 
materials and dimensions 
with features to enable 
the electrical insulation of 
wires. Aerospace 
applications include cockpit 
and engine wiring.
6
 TULT DS is a heat-shrink 
material pre-cut and 
formatted onto a 
convenient “ladder” system 
that allows printing on 
both sides of the marker. 
Applications on wiring 
harnesses throughout 
the aircraft.
8
 PEEK ties are intended 
for applications in high 
temperature environments 
up to 240°C, making them 
particularly useful near the 
engine. They are also 
extremely resistant to acids 
and radiation. 
7
 SBPAV0 spiral binding 
which meets fire protection 
class UL94 V0, provides 
mechanical protection 
and can be easily removed 
and reused.
2 6
4
5
1
7
9
8
3 HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
The Group’s broad diversification, global presence and decentralised management 
structure ensure responsiveness to customer and market needs for cable management 
solutions. A focus on innovation exists throughout the Group’s activities.
Procurement Manufacturing
Strong development capabilities
The Group possesses the technical expertise 
to design and manufacture products and 
develop customised designs and solutions 
to meet its customers’ cable management 
needs in every region of the world. These can 
then be standardised for mass production to 
achieve economies of scale. The know-how and 
technical expertise accumulated in developing, 
designing and manufacturing the Group’s 
products in-house give it a distinct advantage 
over competitors with more centralised models.
Local product development capabilities enable 
fast and responsive development of solutions 
for customers, wherever they require the 
Group’s design expertise. A global design 
database enables regional development teams 
to efficiently share ideas and collaborate on 
global projects.
Procurement 
The Group’s largest raw material purchases are 
plastics, including PA66 and PVC. It also uses 
third-party manufacturers for the manufacturing 
of certain items, as well as for sourcing some 
finished goods. The Group strives to obtain 
multiple sources of supply for these raw 
materials and products and seeks to maintain 
strong relationships with suppliers. Suppliers are 
regularly reviewed and evaluated to ensure 
they provide the highest quality service while 
optimising HellermannTyton’s operating margins.
World-class manufacturing 
HellermannTyton currently operates world-class 
production facilities in 12 primary locations 
across ten countries. These production locations 
operate over 400 injection moulding machines 
and carry out other activities such as extrusion 
and secondary operations. The Group’s world-
class production facilities are highly automated 
and utilise the principles of lean manufacturing. 
They are integrated globally but managed on 
a regional basis in order to optimise capital 
investment, manufacturing and freight costs 
while achieving economies of scale. They have 
many accreditations and approvals such as 
ISO14001 certification for environmental 
management systems and TS16949 for the 
automotive industry, as well as many customer-
specific and product-specific approvals.
Situating manufacturing local to customers 
also enables the Group to manage the impact 
of exchange rates on the business by matching 
costs, as far as practical, with the currencies 
in which the products are sold, and ensures 
responsiveness to local market conditions. 
Global supply chain
Maintaining distribution centres in close 
proximity to its customers gives HellermannTyton 
a deep understanding of local requirements 
and regulations thereby allowing it to target 
those local markets with high levels of service. 
This proximity has also created a flexible supply 
chain capable of responding quickly to short-
term fluctuations in customer demand and 
delivering orders in a cost-effective manner on 
a short lead time. The Group also utilises third-
party warehousing and logistics where it makes 
sense to do so.
Complete cable management solutions
The broad product range focused on cable 
management is a key part of the business model. 
The Group offers over 20,000 products in more 
than 70,000 SKUs which are grouped into five 
product categories (Fixings, Insulation and 
Strategic report
Business model
Raw materials, e.g. 
 PA66
 PEEK
 ETFE
Highly automated  
production, e.g. 
 
Injection moulding
 
Blow moulding
 
Extrusion
Secondary operations, e.g.
 
Assembly
 
Packing
Outsourced components 
and finished products
Collaboration with suppliers on leading-
edge materials technology
Mould design for effective manufacture
Automation, cycle time reduction and 
energy-efficient machinery
Lean manufacturing
Automation of assembly  
and packaging for quality 
and repeatability
Examples of innovation throughout business model Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 13
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Sales and marketing Distribution
 OEMs
 Tier suppliers
 Wholesalers
 Distributors
End-of-line shipping 
to customer
Optimised management of inventory levels
Automation of picking in warehouses
Customer-led innovation of new solutions
Mass customisation to other markets and geographies
Market-leading customer interface and e-business capabilities
Protection, Network Connectivity, Identification 
and Installer Solutions). These categories are 
chosen as they best describe the cable 
management function of the individual 
components within the category. For example, 
the Fixings products help secure or attach a 
bundle of cables or wires to a piece of 
equipment or structure, whereas products in the 
Protection category help to protect the cables 
and wires from damage such as abrasion 
or impact.
Any given cable management situation faced by 
HellermannTyton’s customers is likely to require 
products from several categories in order to 
provide a complete solution. A key aspect of the 
business model is therefore that it provides a 
comprehensive range of products that enable 
the Group to provide solutions to its customers, 
as shown in the wind and aerospace examples 
on pages 10 and 11.
These needs are often not unique to a particular 
customer, industry or region, and HellermannTyton 
is able to use its scale to offer successful products 
from one particular market or geography in 
another with a strategy that it describes as 
mass customisation.
The breadth of its product offering therefore 
enables the Group to provide a broad range of 
cable management solutions to its customers 
worldwide. The Group also has longstanding 
customer relationships with processes being 
pre-approved, where required. This saves 
customers time and costs by eliminating 
the need for them to undertake multiple 
approval processes for particular products 
in different geographies. 
Sales and marketing
HellermannTyton has strong brand recognition 
for the quality, service and reliability that it 
provides. Its strong and integrated marketing 
capabilities, which include a central global 
product database, enable the Group to target 
technical and marketing information to particular 
markets and geographies which offer attractive 
growth opportunities and therefore quickly 
scale up successes. The Group’s industry-leading 
e-business capabilities enable it to integrate with 
its customers’ systems and deliver the most up-
to-date content in whichever format is required 
by the end-user. 
These capabilities, together with the Group’s 
strong presence on the ground in key 
geographies, enable it to cement its position 
as the partner of choice for its customers in 
the cable management industry.
Broad diversification 
HellermannTyton’s relationships with its 
customers have been established over many 
years and help to entrench the Group in its end-
markets, enabling it to anticipate and respond 
to emerging opportunities and trends. 
The Group’s business is diversified across regions, 
customers, end-markets and product lines, thus 
giving it exposure to a wide range of different 
growth trends and enhancing its overall resilience 
to cyclicality in particular markets or regions. 
This diversification enhances the Group’s stability 
and protects against reliance on any particular 
product, customer or geography.
The case studies on pages 14 and 15 
provide specific examples of the business 
model in action, together with the strategy 
that enables the Group to harness growth 
from the underlying structural growth drivers.
 
Logistics, warehousing 
and distribution HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14
Strategic report
Case studies
European railway rolling stock
The front carriage of a European high speed train can have 
30km of wire and cable that must be managed and secured. 
Safety is of the utmost importance here, and throughout 
all the train carriages, so all components must minimise, or 
better still eliminate, potential danger to passengers, even in 
extreme conditions. 
HellermannTyton has products for this industry from across the Group’s 
product range which meet the highest demands and have industry 
relevant certifications such as for longevity and fire protection, so that they 
meet the latest standards such as EN45545.
For these reasons, HellermannTyton has preferred supplier status with 
well-known European railway carriage manufacturers, ensuring that the 
Group continues to benefit from new investments in this area. As the 
wiring in the trains continues to increase in volume and complexity, the 
need for weight reduction in order to improve efficiency continues to 
present opportunities for HellermannTyton’s lighter plastic solutions.
Structural drivers:
Strategic focus:
 > Design and produce innovative solutions
 > Increase customer penetration
Chinese domestic automotive
HellermannTyton’s local manufacturing capability in China 
ensures that the Group provides world-class quality and 
service and reduced supply chains to its global customers 
who are manufacturing in the region. It also enables the 
Group to use its on-the-ground expertise to meet the needs 
of domestic Chinese manufacturers, whose production volumes 
are forecast by IHS to grow by an average of 6.3% per annum 
over the next five years.
2014 saw the ramp up in production of a car that was relaunched 
by one of the four largest Chinese domestic manufacturers. 
HellermannTyton worked closely with the OEM and their chosen 
Tier 1 harness maker to propose a comprehensive solution of over 
260 items for each vehicle. These were then specified and are now 
being used in production. The Group’s local development expertise 
and global experience in designing solutions for the automotive 
industry were key success factors in winning the project. 
This has cemented HellermannTyton’s reputation with the customer 
as the production of the vehicle continues to ramp up, and positions 
the Group well for future projects with both the OEM and the 
harness maker.
Structural drivers:
Strategic focus:
 > Geographies with high growth opportunities
 > Increase customer penetration 
 > Invest in the Group’s infrastructure
HellermannTyton’s business model, together with the strategy outlined on page 5, 
enables the Group to benefit from the underlying structural growth drivers explained 
earlier in this report. These case studies provide recent practical examples of this with 
reference to the relevant growth drivers and areas of strategic focus. Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 15
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Japanese solar
In 2009, the Japanese government set a target of increasing solar 
PV capacity more than ten-fold to 28GW by 2020 and for 10% of 
the country’s total energy demand to be met by solar PV by 2050. 
This is largely being met by large-scale mega-solar projects.
The demands placed on the solar energy infrastructure are enormous, 
including severe material wear, safety, high mechanical strain, extremes of 
weather, corrosion and ultraviolet (UV) exposure. Continuous maintenance 
is unacceptable and components should ideally last for decades while also 
ensuring lasting and effective power output. 
HellermannTyton’s series of GalvaLok fixings, made using Polyamide 11 
(PA11) material, have been very successful in this market. PA11 exhibits 
markedly reduced reaction to chemical solvents and high resistance to 
UV radiation and is therefore a reliable choice for the bundling and fixing 
of solar cables to galvanised steel frames installed in coastal areas, where 
there are high concentrations of salt in the atmosphere. 
The Group is able to use this experience with PA11 products in the solar 
industry to identify markets with similar challenges and therefore further 
grow the sales of this product range.
Structural drivers:
Strategic focus:
 > High growth end-markets
 > Design and produce innovative solutions
American heavy equipment
HellermannTyton has been working closely with a 
North American manufacturer of agricultural equipment 
on an initiative to reduce the weight of their tractors. 
During workshops with the customer’s engineers 
HellermannTyton identified an opportunity to replace 
metal clamps that were used to manage cables in the 
engine compartment with lighter plastic components.
As with most heavy equipment, the engine compartment of these 
tractors is a particularly challenging environment, where components 
need to withstand the rugged demands placed on them as well as 
high temperatures of up to 200°C. HellermannTyton’s development 
team in Milwaukee used their experience in the latest materials 
technology to adapt an existing product design to be manufactured 
with high performance material, which has reduced brittleness at these 
higher temperatures.
This solution has other benefits compared to the previous metal 
products, such as less movement in the fixing once it has been 
installed and more flexibility to manage different sizes of wire bundles. 
The solution has been adopted by the customer for future production 
along with other new fixings that the Group has introduced as 
part of the overall cable management solution for this particular 
agricultural vehicle.
Structural drivers:
Strategic focus:
 > Design and produce innovative solutions
 > Increase customer penetration HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
Revenue for the EMEA segment was €313.2 million, which is 10.5% higher than 2013 and 1 1.6% higher in constant currency with 
increased sales in all market areas.
Revenue for the Americas segment was €148.3 million, which is 8.9% higher than 2013 and 12.9% higher in constant currency reflecting 
increased sales, particularly in the Automotive market.
Revenue for the Asian segment was €135.4 million, which is 14.3% higher than 2013 and 19.2% higher in constant currency mainly  
as a result of increased sales in the Automotive market.
Electrical: on a constant currency basis, there was growth in 
all regions, particularly in EMEA. HellermannTyton continues to 
benefit from growth in the demand and complexity of electrical 
content, and the expectations of end-users for high-quality, reliable 
products. The Group focuses on providing innovative solutions for 
demanding applications and meeting exacting industrial standards 
and safety requirements.
Automotive: on a constant currency basis there was strong 
growth in all regions, particularly in the car market. China and USA 
saw good growth in sales to truck and bus but there were actually 
lower truck build rates in EMEA, Brazil and China. The structural 
growth drivers for HellermannTyton in this market include: an 
increase in cable and wire content; the substitution of metal by 
plastic; increasing safety standards; and new and more innovative 
vehicle platforms. 
Datacom & Other: Datacom saw growth in EMEA, particularly 
in broadband products, and Asian but with lower sales in 
the Americas. 
Cost of sales
The Group’s cost of sales for the year was €343.2 million 
(2013: €313.2 million), representing an increase of €30.0 million, 
or 9.6%. This increase was principally due to the increased sales. 
The manufacturing margin (gross profit before one-off costs) 
for the year was 42.5% compared to 42.4% in 2013.
Selling and distribution costs
Selling and distribution costs incurred for the year were 
€133.2 million (2013: €1 19.4 million), representing an increase 
of €13.8 million, or 1 1.5%. The costs represent 22.3% of 
revenue compared to 22.2% in 2013, reflecting a slight increase 
in distribution costs as a proportion of revenue mainly due to 
increased use of third-party logistics.
Administrative expenses
The Group’s administrative expenses for the year were €37.6 million 
(2013: €42.7 million). The reduction is due to a €8.5 million non-
cash movement in the revaluation of intra-Group financing loans, 
as a result of a gain of €0.9 million in 2014 compared to a loss of 
€7.6 million in 2013, offset by an increase in costs of €3.4 million.
Underlying operating profit by geographic segment
Growth (%)
€ million
Year ended  
31 December 
2014
Year ended  
31 December 
2013
Reported  
rates
EMEA 32.5 32.2 +0.8%
Americas 18.6 17.0 +9.2%
Asian 32.6 27.0 +20.9%
Total 83.6 76.2 +9.8%
Group revenue in the year ended 31 December 2014 was €596.9 million, 13.5% ahead 
of 2013 in constant currency and 10.9% ahead at reported rates. 
Strategic report
Business review
Revenue by geographic segment
Growth (%)
€ million
Year ended  
31 December 2014
Year ended  
31 December 2013
Reported rates Constant currency
EMEA 313.2 283.4 +10.5% +11.6%
Americas 148.3 136.1 +8.9% +12.9%
Asian 135.4 118.5 +14.3% +19.2%
Total revenue 596.9 538.0 +10.9% +13.5%
Revenue by market
Growth (%)
€ million
Year ended  
31 December 2014
Year ended  
31 December 2013
Reported rates Constant currency
Electrical 249.1 240.2 +3.7% +7.6%
Automotive 301.2 254.6 +18.3% +19.8%
Datacom & Other 46.6 43.2 +7.8% +9.1%
Total 596.9 538.0 +10.9% +13.5% Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 17
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The growth in underlying operating profit in EMEA, compared to 
2013, has been impacted by the higher level of corporate costs in 
2014, the Group’s first full year as a listed entity, and also the cost 
of increased use of third-party logistics. The underlying operating 
profit for Americas has increased in line with sales and the Asian 
underlying operating profit has benefited from production 
efficiencies with the increase in sales volumes.
Finance costs – net
Net finance costs were €10.8 million (2013: €28.4 million). 
The reduction is primarily due to lower interest expense on the 
revolving credit facility compared to the senior secured bonds it 
replaced. The 2013 results also included the accelerated write-
down of the bond transaction costs of €13.0 million. 
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was €21.3 million (2013: €12.7 million), 
representing an effective tax rate on underlying profit for the year 
of 29.5% (2013: 28.5%).
Cash flows
Year ended  
31 December
€ million 2014 2013
Cash flows:
from operating activities 66.5 43.9
used in investing activities (51.0) (36.7)
(used in)/from financing activities (40.5) 26.9
Net cash movement (25.0) 34.1
Net cash generated from operating activities
Cash flows from operating activities for 2014 were €22.6 million 
higher than 2013 due to €23.7 million additional cash flow 
from improved trading and a reduction in interest payments of 
€4.8 million, offset by €5.9 million of higher taxation payments.
Net cash used in investing activities
Capital expenditure in 2014 of €57.1 million comprised facility 
expansion and growth and maintenance as follows: 
Facility expansion project capex of €1 1.4 million, which included: 
preparations for a new logistics centre in Germany; construction 
work for the expansion of the Good Hope Road facility in 
Milwaukee; and construction of the new mezzanine in the logistics 
facility in Manchester.
Growth and maintenance capex of €45.7 million, which included: 
new and replacement moulding machines, automation and other 
production equipment in our manufacturing facilities; new and 
replacement moulds; set up of equipment in the rented facility in 
Poland; and ERP upgrade projects in Germany, the USA and the UK.
Net cash generated from financing activities
Net cash used in financing activities was €40.5 million compared 
to €26.9 million generated in 2013. The net outflow in 2014 
reflects the repayment of the senior secured bonds in March 2014, 
including associated costs, by using €25.6 million of cash and 
drawing down €200.0 million of the new five-year revolving credit 
facility. The cash generated in 2013 included the net proceeds from 
the IPO of €29.5 million.
Liquidity and funding
On 26 February 2014, the Company signed a new €230.0 million 
revolving credit facility at Euribor +1.75% for a term of five years. 
The new facility replaced the Group’s €220.0 million senior secured 
bonds (Euribor +5.125%) and an undrawn €80.0 million revolving 
credit facility. On 28 March 2014 €200.0 million of the new 
facility was drawn down to repay the bonds with the balance of 
€20.0 million repaid using cash.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2014 were €57.4 million 
(2013: €80.0 million).
Net debt at 31 December 2014 was €161.1 million 
(2013: €150.6 million) with, at that date, undrawn committed 
facilities of €30.0 million available from the €230.0 million revolving 
credit facility.
The ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA as at 31 December 2014 
was 1.4x (2013: 1.4x).
Underlying results
The following tables reconcile the underlying results to operating 
profit and basic earnings per share:
Year ended  
31 December
€ million 2014 2013
Underlying EBITDA 115.7 104.8
Depreciation 
(incl. business software amortisation)
(25.3) (21.8)
Underlying EBITA 90.4 83.0
Amortisation 
(excl. business software amortisation)
(6.8) (6.8)
Underlying operating profit 83.6 76.2
One-off costs (1.6) (3.7)
Gain on disposal of asset 1.2 0.9
Transaction costs (1.2) (2.3)
Non-cash gain/(loss) on revaluation of  
intra-Group loans
0.9 (7.6)
Operating profit 82.9 63.5
Year ended  
31 December
Cents 2014 2013
Underlying basic earnings per share 26.08 22.81
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (2.27) (2.35)
Transaction costs (0.41) (5.28)
Non-cash gain/(loss) on revaluation  
of intra-Group loans
0.43 (3.57)
One-off costs including gain on disposal 
of asset
(0.17) (1.01)
Basic earnings per share 23.66 10.60   
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18
Strategic report
Key performance indicators
Each business unit uses a set of detailed operational and financial KPIs to measure and track 
day-to-day activity. These are often specific to the activities of the individual operation and 
can be difficult to quantify or aggregate to a group level in a meaningful way. The Group 
has therefore determined that the following KPIs are an effective way to measure and track 
progress towards achieving HellermannTyton’s strategic objectives. 
Objectives
Constant currency sales growth is a measure of 
how we are growing our business organically, 
excluding the effects of changing exchange 
rates. We aim to achieve year-on-year 
constant currency organic growth in sales 
of 3–4% above the rate of growth of global 
industrial production.
Objectives
Underlying return on sales is a measure of 
profitability in our business. Our intention is to 
maintain a return in the mid-teens throughout 
the cycle as we continue to invest in resources 
and infrastructure to grow the business. 
Objectives
Underlying EBITDA margin is a measure of 
profitability in our business. Our intention is 
to maintain the underlying EBITDA margin at 
around the 20% level throughout the cycle 
as we continue to invest in resources and 
infrastructure to grow the business.
Objectives
We aim to achieve growth in underlying 
basic EPS. 
Objectives
Good environmental practice and the 
impact that our operations have on the 
environment are of great importance to 
HellermannTyton and we aim to achieve 
continuous improvement in the energy 
and fuel efficiency of our activities.
Definition
Year-on-year revenue growth, on a constant 
currency basis using 2014 average exchange 
rates, and excluding the effects of acquisitions 
and divestments.
Definition
Underlying EBITA as a percentage of sales. 
A reconciliation of underlying EBITA to reported 
operating profit is presented on page 17.
Definition
Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of sales. 
A reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to 
reported operating profit is presented on 
page 17.
Definition
Underlying basic EPS is the ratio of underlying 
earnings to the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
Underlying earnings excludes certain non-
operational items which are presented in Note 5 
of the consolidated financial statements.
Definition
CO
2
 emissions are defined as tonnes of CO
2
 
created from the Group’s electrical and gas usage 
plus fuel consumption for business miles travelled 
by Company vehicles, per million parts produced 
by the Group’s manufacturing operations.
Constant currency sales growth
Underlying return on sales
Underlying EBITDA margin
Underlying basic earnings per share
CO
2
 emissions
 1 3.5%
(2013: 11. 1 %)
 15 .2%
(2013: 15.4%)
 19 .4%
(2013: 19.5%)
26.08 cents
(2013: 22.81 cents)
2.22 tonnes
(2013: 2.48 tonnes)   
Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 19
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The HellermannTyton Group faces a number of risks in its day-to-day activities. 
Our responsibility is to mitigate these risks and uncertainties with a formal risk management 
process. We have identified below the main risks that we believe can adversely affect our 
results, impact our employees, operations, revenue, profits, cash flows or net assets.
The Group’s risk register is built up from contributions from the 
manufacturing and associated sales operations. There has been a 
top down review by members of the Executive Committee and 
Board, facilitated by Internal Audit. Risk registers are maintained and 
periodically updated. As well as identifying the headline risks, 
emerging risks are also identified and members of management are 
assigned to monitor and oversee actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risks are 
managed appropriately and, either directly or through the Audit 
Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management process and other internal controls. Internal audit 
provides the Audit Committee with a quarterly update of the risk 
management activity and the risk register is a standing item in the 
business performance reviews.
In the table below, we have selected from the risk register those 
items that we currently consider to have the greatest potential 
impact on the Group. The order in which they are presented is 
not significant.
During 2014 we have continued to refine the reports with a view 
to further developing best practice and sharing mitigations 
and solutions.
Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Risk description Mitigating activities
Reputation
Inferior product quality, poor service or damage caused by the Group’s 
products could result in new or existing customers being less willing to 
do business with HellermannTyton.
 > Close scrutiny of product quality and customer scorecards
 > On-time delivery performance
Customer relationships
If a number of customer relationships were terminated or the number 
of products delivered reduced within a short period of time, the Group’s 
results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.
 > Close monitoring and review of strategy and customer activity
 > Review of market activity
 > Investment in sales and marketing
Lower priced competitor
If the Group is unable to be competitive on prices, it may not be able 
to retain existing customers or win new customers.
 > Close monitoring of competitors’ pricing 
 > Close analysis of new product development programme
 > Initiatives to maximise product cost-effectiveness
Retention, development and incentivisation of key employees
Business operations could be adversely affected by a failure to attract, 
retain, develop and incentivise key personnel in sales, marketing, product 
development, operations, finance and management.
 > Alignment of objectives, incentives and remuneration
 > Maintenance of positive work environment
 > Encouragement of initiative and innovation
Automotive market demand
A substantial deterioration in vehicle production such as that experienced 
in 2008 and 2009 could have a significant negative effect on the Group’s 
sales and results of operations.
 > Close monitoring of market and customer activity
 > Broaden product range and customer base
Innovation and new product development
If the Group fails to deliver complex and innovative solutions as well as 
to anticipate technological trends, it could lose market share and suffer 
adverse effects on future growth.
 > Diversified product range
 > Investment in new product development and high-
calibre employees
 > Close monitoring of product development programme 
and milestones
Third-party manufacturers
The Group’s production or distribution could be adversely affected if there 
are any significant adverse changes with respect to moulding equipment 
suppliers or suppliers of bought-in products.
 > Maintain multiple sources of supply and strong 
supplier relationships
Raw materials supply
If the Group faces any restrictions in its sourcing of raw materials, 
it could face significant disruptions to production or supply of goods 
to its customers.
 > Maintain multiple suppliers and manage volume limits from 
each supplier, as well as safety stock and source from other 
Group sites
Foreign exchange movements
Significant adverse exchange movements could impact negatively on 
the profitability of the Group.
 > Close monitoring of foreign exchange exposures and hedging 
of exposures with forward exchange contracts HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20
HellermannTyton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour. 
We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct 
has an important impact. 
We take our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) seriously and 
are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the 
Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR that 
are relevant to our business. These include good ethical behaviour, 
concern for employee health and safety, care for the environment 
and community involvement.
We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with 
all parties who may have an interest in our activities, including 
customers, suppliers and employees. We conduct regular customer 
satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance and actively 
encourage feedback from our employees.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed 
to developing and implementing appropriate policies while 
adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long-
term value. The Board does not believe that, to date, the activities 
of the Group have presented any significant environmental risks.
Ethics
HellermannTyton requires all of its business to be conducted 
in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice. 
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, 
customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s ethics policy has been developed to ensure that the 
Group’s business adheres to high ethical and legal principles, and to 
set standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and 
operations worldwide.
The following is a summary of the ethics policy.
 > All employees have the right and responsibility to ensure 
that HellermannTyton’s business is conducted according 
to high ethical and legal principles
 > We will act in a manner that is consistent with applicable 
laws and regulations
 > Discrimination or harassment of any kind will not 
be tolerated
 > The Group does not make political donations
 > No bribes shall be given or received and we comply with 
the Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 > Conflicts of interest must be avoided
 > We aim to be a responsible partner in our 
local communities
 > Employees are encouraged to report, in confidence, any 
suspected wrongdoings and are supported if they do so
Employees
The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre 
of employees within the context of an operating structure that 
encourages their contribution and development.
An environment that fosters innovation and supports a 
culture of entrepreneurship and partnership is critical to 
HellermannTyton’s success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are 
developed for both technical and management staff. Employees are 
provided with numerous learning and development opportunities to 
fulfil their potential. A wide variety of both technical and managerial 
courses and training materials are available to employees. 
These development opportunities are structured to align with both 
the Group’s and its business units’ goals and objectives.
Leadership development and succession planning is critical to the 
success of the business. These plans are regularly discussed and 
updated as the competition for talented employees increases and 
the leadership needs of the business grow. Formal performance 
reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the 
organisation. The Group is committed to providing equality of 
opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without 
unlawful or unfair discrimination. Full support is given to the 
employment and advancement of disabled persons and this is 
reinforced through the Group’s ethics policy.
Breakdown of Directors and employees
Male Female
Directors 6 –
Senior managers (excluding Directors) 9 2
Employees 2,160 1,631
Total 2,175 1,633
Strategic report
Corporate social responsibility Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 21
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Health and safety
The Chief Executive is the Director appointed by the Board to have 
responsibility for the health, safety and environmental performance 
of the Group. The Group health and safety policy places 
responsibility for the management of health and safety on the local 
business unit management, who are supported by Group Internal 
Control, Internal Audit and local external advisers, where necessary.
Each business unit has a designated senior individual to be responsible 
for ensuring the business unit complies with local statutory health and 
safety regulations as well as Group policy. All business units provide 
employees with a written health and safety policy.
An annual internal report on our health and safety performance 
is collated from a questionnaire completed by all business units.
Independent external reviews of the Group’s health and safety 
performance are conducted annually. Any recommendations 
arising from these reviews are addressed by the members of the 
Executive Committee and management teams at the relevant 
locations. Regular designated health and safety awareness training 
programmes are also carried out, particularly at our manufacturing 
sites. Information about the Group’s health and safety performance 
and significant risk exposures are provided to executive management 
and the Board.
Environmental
Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have 
on the environment are of great importance to HellermannTyton. 
The main aim of HellermannTyton’s Environmental Policy is to comply 
with local, state and national environmental legislation in all jurisdictions 
in which we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
Business units are required to comply with Group policy and 
local statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own 
environmental targets. An annual environmental questionnaire 
is completed by each business unit which highlights their 
environmental performance.
Our manufacturing sites worldwide operate ISO9001 quality and/
or ISO14001 accredited environmental management systems. 
ISO14001 requires organisations to implement policies designed to 
mitigate their environmental impact. In addition, most of our sales 
and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO9001 and/
or ISO14001 accreditation. However, a small number of smaller sales 
locations are still to obtain this accreditation.
A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured 
to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the 
end of its life cycle, with more than 90% of our finished plastic 
components being suitable for material recycling. Our businesses 
comply where applicable with the Waste Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment Regulations and The Restriction of the Use of Certain 
Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
Regulations 2012.
The environmental performance of the Group continues to improve, 
with business units meeting goals for reducing energy consumption, 
reducing waste and greater recycling. There are programmes in place 
aimed at reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill by increasing 
the volume of recycling, including recycling materials during our 
manufacturing processes. Group performance and risk exposure 
reviews are undertaken in parallel with those for health and safety as 
described above. 
Several manufacturing locations have installed solar panels, removed 
high-discharge lighting and replaced them with LED lighting. 
Community
HellermannTyton recognises the importance of local communities 
and through our charitable donations policy we strive to be a 
responsible partner in the communities in which we operate. 
We encourage all our businesses to support the particular needs of 
their communities by contributing to local charities and community 
initiatives. Support takes the form of employee time and skills, gifts 
in kind and cash donations.
For example, in Plymouth a donation was made to the children’s 
ward of the local hospital, and in South Africa we provide free basic 
electrical training for previously disadvantaged contractors.
By encouraging our employees to become involved in fundraising 
activities for local concerns and community initiatives, 
HellermannTyton continues to support all our employees 
and businesses in finding ways of helping their communities.
Carbon emissions reporting
Data from the largest manufacturing locations (the UK, Germany, 
the USA, Japan, Brazil, France, South Africa, China and Singapore), 
which account for 95% of the total Group spend on power, have 
been collected for electricity and gas usage, as well as business 
mileage following the guidance issued by Defra. This percentage 
is higher than last year as we have increased the scope of the 
reporting in 2014 to include more of our manufacturing locations. 
The remaining 5% requires considerable additional resources to 
collect in part due to shared premises with other companies, serviced 
offices etc. It has therefore been decided not to collect this additional 
information, from the perspective both of cost benefit and of our 
limited ability to collect accurate data, particularly with respect to the 
shared premises.
We do not deem the impact of commercial vehicle emissions to be 
material to our overall operations. These vehicles often consolidate 
HellermannTyton shipments with goods for other customers of the 
freight companies and there would be no practical or meaningful 
way to allocate the carbon usage of these providers to our product.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting and 
Reporting Standard and emissions factors from the UK Government 
Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors 2014. 
2014
1
2013
Tonnes equivalent 
carbon dioxide (CO2e)
Business mileage for all  
travel by car
1,691 1,681
Electricity and gas usage 42,940 30,765
Total gross emissions 44,631 32,446
Intensity measurement
Pieces produced 20,186,389,353 13,086,479,967
Tonnes CO2 per million 
items produced
2.22 2.48
1. The scope was increased in 2014 by including Brazil, France, South Africa and China. Board of Directors 
David Newlands 
Chairman 
Appointed: February 2013 
Experience: David Newlands qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Deloitte & T ouche in 1968 and was admitted to the partnership 
at the age of 30. In 1989, he joined The General Electric Company 
plc and spent eight years as Group Finance Director. Since leaving 
the Company in 1997, he has held numerous directorships with 
companies such as Standard Life Assurance, Britax International plc 
and T omkins plc, amongst others. 
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee (Chairman), 
Remuneration Committee. 
Steve Salmon 
Executive Director and Chief Executive 
Appointed: Executive Director in March 2013, Chief Executive in 
February 2006 
Experience: Steve Salmon has been the team leader of the business 
for 19 years, previously as Group President and Group General 
Manager. Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at the age 
of 21, he went into industry initially at Courtauld’ s London head 
office in 1970, joining the Bowthorpe Group (then owners of the 
HellermannT yton business) in 1973, where he became Group Financial 
Controller in 1985. 
Tim Jones 
Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed: Executive Director in March 2013, Chief Financial Officer 
in February 2006 
Experience: Tim Jones was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the 
Group in February 2006. He was previously Head of Internal Control 
at Spirent plc, with a reporting line to the Audit Committee, a role 
he held for five years. Prior to that, he was Group Management 
Accountant. He spent 11 years working for De La Rue plc in a number 
of financial roles, including Management Accountant at both divisional 
and business unit level. He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business 
Studies from Bournemouth University and is qualified as a Chartered 
Management Accountant. 
Tim Hancock 
Senior Non-executive Director  
Appointed: February 2013 
Experience: Tim Hancock has over 35 years’ experience in the 
investment banking industry and was formerly a Managing Director 
and Partner at Rothschild. In the past 15 years, he has served as a 
Non-executive Director to several companies and charities, including 
British-Borneo Petroleum PLC and the British Neurological Research 
T rust. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree with Honours in Modern 
History from the University of Oxford. 
Other roles: Tim Hancock is also a Director of Thos Proctor & Son 
Limited, a Senior Advisor to Douglas Bay Capital plc and a T rustee 
of St Peter & St James Hospice. 
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee. 
 
John Biles
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Appointed: February 2013 
Experience: John Biles qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price 
Waterhouse & Co, following which he held the position of Financial 
Director at various subsidiaries of Racal Electronics Plc and then 
successively Group Finance Director of Chubb Security Plc and FKI Plc. 
Since 2001, he has served in numerous non-executive roles with 
companies such as Charter International PLC and Viridian Group PLC. 
He holds a Bachelor of Sciences Combined Honours degree in 
Chemistry and Physics from the University of Exeter . 
Other roles: John Biles is currently a Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Bodycote PLC, Skyepharma plc 
and Sutton & East Surrey Water plc.  
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit 
Committee (Chairman), Remuneration Committee. 
David Lindsell
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 
Appointed: February 2013 
Experience: David Lindsell spent almost 30 years as a partner at Ernst 
& Y oung and served as the lead audit partner for numerous FTSE 100 
companies during his career at the firm. He was Deputy Chairman 
of the Financial Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to 2012 and 
has served on a number of professional bodies relating to financial 
reporting and the accountancy profession. He graduated from 
Cambridge University with a Bachelor’ s degree in History and is 
a Chartered Accountant. 
Other roles: David Lindsell is currently a Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committees of Premier Oil plc and Drax Group 
plc. He is also Deputy Chair of Governors of the University of the Arts 
London and a T rustee and Chairman of the Audit Committee of 
Cancer Research UK.  
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee (Chairman). 
 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 23
Other 
information
Chairman’s statement 
 
Our governance 
At HellermannT yton, we recognise that good corporate governance 
gives our shareholders assurance that the Company is being 
managed effectively , with the right safeguards, checks and balances 
underpinning the strategic direction of the business. The Corporate 
Governance report starting on page 24, together with the reports 
of our Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, explain 
how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied by 
the Company and has shaped our decision making as a Board 
throughout 2014. 
As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board, 
which regularly meets to debate and examine the Company’ s: 
 performance and progress against the annual business plan; 
 business development and acquisition opportunities; 
 strategy in the light of market risks and challenges; 
 investment in global infrastructure and innovation; 
 people, including how we can develop our management team 
and retain the best talent; and 
 succession planning for the Board and senior management to 
protect the business for the future. 
All of these discussions are underpinned by legal and regulatory 
considerations, and we firmly believe that our framework of corporate 
governance facilitates prudent management that can deliver long-term 
success for the benefit of our shareholders. 
Investor relations
 
This year has seen HellermannT yton settle into its new arena as a listed 
company and the executive team focus on giving our shareholders 
greater insight into how we run our business. In September , an 
investor day was held at the Group’ s T ornesch location to show our 
institutional shareholders the breadth of our product range and the 
innovative steps that we take to meet our customers’ ever-increasing 
demand for cable management solutions and stay ahead of the 
competition. This was welcomed by all those who attended and who 
found it particularly useful to see first-hand our strong design and 
development capabilities. Accordingly , we plan to hold similar events 
for our shareholders in future. 
 
Employees
HellermannT yton has a first-class team which is empowered to take 
ownership of day-to-day operational decision making. This was 
particularly noticeable when I and the other Board members 
visited the Group’ s Milwaukee location to see personally how 
HellermannT yton’ s worldwide employees are working hard to 
maximise customer penetration and increase efficiency throughout 
the business. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for 
the diligence, commitment and good judgement they have shown 
throughout the year to make the success of HellermannT yton possible. 
Changes to the Board
2014 also saw Doughty Hanson, who listed the Company in 2013, 
sell their remaining shareholding in HellermannT yton and the 
resignation of their representative Director , Alex Moss, from the 
Board. Although this has not disrupted the appropriate balance of 
Non-executive to Executive Directors, the departure of Alex has 
prompted our Nomination Committee to begin searching for a new 
Non-executive Director to bring fresh perspective and challenge to 
the Board dynamic, and further details about this can be found in 
the Nomination Committee report starting on page 28. 
Summary
As the Chief Executive reports on page 4, HellermannT yton has had 
another strong year of profitable growth, which has enabled the 
Board to recommend a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share. This is 
an increase of 7.6% over the final dividend paid for 2013 and I believe 
that the Group will continue to build on this growth in 2015. 
David Newlands 
Chairman 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report 
In this Corporate governance report we explain who the members of the Board are, 
describe their role and responsibilities and provide further insight into how the Board 
governs the Company to ensure it remains firmly in compliance with the principles 
and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
 
Corporate governance statement
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance 
in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business. Details 
are set out below of the Company’ s corporate governance procedures 
and application of the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
September 2012. A copy of the Code is available online at 
www.frc.org.uk. 
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the 
period ended 31 December 2014 with all the provisions of the Code. 
The role of the Board 
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership of 
the Company within a framework of prudent controls, which enables 
risk to be assessed and managed. The Board is also responsible for 
setting the Company’ s strategic aims, values and standards and for 
ensuring that the necessary financial, physical and human resources 
are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and deliver value 
to shareholders.  
A number of key decisions and matters are expressly reserved for the 
Board’ s attention and can only be approved by the Board. These have 
been clearly defined in writing and include monitoring and approving 
the Company’ s financial results, strategic plans and annual capital and 
revenue budgets, approving major acquisitions and disposals and 
overseeing the Group’ s systems of governance, risk management 
and internal control. 
The Company Secretary’ s responsibilities include ensuring good 
information flows to the Board and its Committees and between 
senior management and the Non-executive Directors. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
reserved for the Board. The Company Secretary is responsible, 
through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate 
governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their 
professional development. This includes regular corporate governance 
and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational location 
visits and the provision of external courses where required.  
Board composition
The Board currently has six members: a Non-executive Chairman, two 
Executive Directors (the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer) 
and three Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be 
independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
The Board believes that its members have an appropriate mix of skills 
and knowledge, including relevant international business, engineering 
industry and financial experience, which enables them to discharge 
their respective duties effectively . The Board is of sufficient size, 
meeting the requirements of the business, and no individual or small 
group of individuals can dominate the Board. 
Chairman 
David Newlands is the Chairman of the Board and ensures that 
appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders. He has 
responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring 
that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles. 
He also chairs the Nomination Committee. 
Chief Executive 
Steve Salmon is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for 
implementing the strategy approved by the Board and for the 
executive management of the Group. 
Chief Financial Officer 
Tim Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for the 
financial conduct of the Group. 
Senior Independent Director 
Tim Hancock is the Senior Independent Director . In accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, he is available to shareholders 
if they have any concerns that contact through the normal channels 
of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to 
resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate. 
Non-executive Directors 
The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its Board. 
The Board considers John Biles, David Lindsell and Tim Hancock to be 
independent as they are free from any business or other relationship 
which could materially influence their judgement and they represent 
a strong source of advice and independent challenge.  
Other than their fees, which are disclosed on page 42, the Chairman 
and Non-executive Directors received no remuneration from the 
Company during the year . When Non-executive Directors are 
considered for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into 
account their other responsibilities in assessing whether they can 
commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 25
Other 
information
  
Resignations from the Board 
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Company 
and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited (“Doughty Hanson”), 
Doughty Hanson was entitled to nominate one Non-executive Director 
of the Company at any time for so long as it held at least 10% of the 
Company’ s shares. Alex Moss was the person nominated by Doughty 
Hanson to be appointed as Non-executive Director upon the 
Company’ s incorporation. He resigned on 21 March 2014 when 
Doughty Hanson sold their remaining shareholding in the Company. 
There were no other changes to the Board in 2014. 
Annual election 
In accordance with the Company’ s articles of association, the 
Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for re-election 
at least every three years. Provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies 
should stand for annual election by shareholders and the Company 
intends to comply with this provision.  
Considering diversity 
The Board recognises that gender , nationality and cultural diversity 
are important factors when considering the composition of the Board. 
Further details of the considerations that are made when reviewing 
and making recommendations on new appointments to the Board 
are provided in the Nomination Committee report on page 28. 
Board Meetings 
During 2014, there were seven scheduled Board meetings, including a 
one-day meeting at the Group’ s Milwaukee location which considered 
the Group’ s strategy . The table below shows attendance levels at the 
scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year; the 
numbers in brackets confirm how many meetings each Director was 
eligible to attend during the year.  
 
Board 
meetings 
Nomination 
Committee 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
David Newlands 7 (7) 2 (2) 4 (–) 4 (4)
John Biles 7 (7) 2 (2) 4 (4) 4 (4)
David Lindsell 7 (7) 2 (2) 4 (4) 4 (4)
Tim Hancock 7 (7) 2 (2) 4 (4) 4 (4)
Steve Salmon 7 (7) 2 (–) 4 (–) 4 (–)
Tim Jones 7 (7) 2 (–) 4 (–) 4 (–)
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are set out on 
page 39. The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have letters 
of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered 
office of the Company during normal business hours and at the place 
of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of 
the meeting.  
 
 
 
 
Activities of the Board in 2014
January
March
May
June
September
Matters considered at all Board meetings
> Current trading
> Potential acquisition opportunities
> Legal and regulatory updates
> Health and safety, and environmental 
   updates
> Share register
> Company policies and future 
  governance planning
Board meeting
December
November
October
August
July
April AGM 
February
Matters considered during 2014
> Draft results and presentation to analysts
> The Annual Report
> Re-ﬁnancing
> Recruitment for a new Non-executive Director
> Board evaluation and effectiveness
> The Group’ s risk register
> Internal controls
> Strategic planning
> Business plan and budget for 2015
 
> AGM results and shareholder voting
> Group restructuring
> Succession planning
> Relocation of US distribution centre
> Establishment of manufacturing facility 
    in South Korea to support growing sales
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report continued 
 
 
 
Ongoing development and business training
All Directors receive comprehensive papers in advance of Board 
meetings on matters to be discussed, including minutes of previous 
meetings, and are briefed in depth by use of presentations at the 
meetings. Their understanding of the Group’ s business is further 
enhanced by additional presentations from senior managers 
throughout the year and visits to the Company’ s key locations. 
This year the Directors attended a strategic planning day at the 
Company’ s Milwaukee location, which included tours of the 
manufacturing and other facilities and presentations by senior 
management on the financial performance of specific business units, 
including details of their competitive position and strategic priorities for 
2015 and beyond. 
The training needs of Directors and of members of the Board’s 
Committees are formally considered on an annual basis as part of the 
wider Board effectiveness review and are also monitored throughout 
the year. 
Independent advice 
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in 
the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel, the 
Company’ s legal advisers and external auditors. 
Committees 
The Board has established Nomination, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities. The 
memberships, roles and activities of these Committees are detailed 
in separate reports: Nomination Committee on page 28, Audit 
Committee on pages 29 to 32 and Remuneration Committee on 
pages 33 to 46. Each Board Committee has written terms of reference 
approved by the Board, which are available to view at 
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com. 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Company’ s Chief Executive 
and comprises the senior management team responsible for the day-
to-day management of the business. These are the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer; the Group Business Development Manager, 
the Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel and the senior 
managers responsible for each segment and industrial market across 
the globe. The remit of the Executive Committee is to support the 
Chief Executive, drive the agreed business strategy forward and 
facilitate the flow of information across all areas of the business.  
 
Board effectiveness evaluation
The Board has carried out an internal assessment of the effectiveness 
of the Board, including a review of issues relating to the Board as a 
whole and each of its Committees, the performance of the Chairman 
and the priority of tasks. The process was conducted through 
the completion of a questionnaire by the Directors and included an 
opportunity for each Director to make comments. The areas covered 
in the questionnaire were the Board’ s role and its organisation, 
the Board dynamic and relationships, the quality of information flows 
and decision making, performance monitoring and the effectiveness 
of each of the Board’ s Committees.  
The responses were compiled into a report which was agreed with 
the Senior Independent Director , who led the evaluation process. 
The report was subsequently discussed by the Board and some areas 
for improvement were proposed and agreed. In addition, the  
Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present to evaluate 
the Chairman’ s performance. 
The Board intends to comply with UK Corporate Governance Code 
guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least 
every three years and will engage an external reviewer to evaluate 
the Board’s effectiveness in 2015. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Company’ s corporate governance process is designed to 
determine the nature and level of risk that the Group is willing to take 
in pursuit of its strategy and to ensure that risks are mitigated to the 
extent required to bring them within the Group’ s risk appetite and that 
the system of internal control is effective. The system of internal control 
includes clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and 
delegated authority . The Company has in place risk management and 
internal control systems in relation to the Company’ s financial reporting 
process and the Group’ s process for preparation of consolidated 
accounts. These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate 
the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions. This is to provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with IFRS, as appropriate, and to enable 
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate 
monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 27
Other 
information
  
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the 
Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal 
management of the business, to monitor: 
 strategic plan achievement; 
 financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, 
accounting and reporting framework; 
 capital investment and asset management performance, with 
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews; 
 customer data and actions to evolve brands and products to ensure 
that they continue to be appealing and relevant; and 
 risk management, through an ongoing process of regular reports 
from the Group’ s senior managers to ensure that the significant 
risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and 
appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, 
cost and opportunity . 
In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from the Internal 
Audit Manager on the work carried out under the annual internal 
audit plan.  
As part of the monitoring processes set out above, the Board, through 
the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, 
it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. In that context, the review, in the 
opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective 
or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change in this 
status up to the approval of this Annual Report. 
Shareholder relations 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the 
performance and activities of the Company . The Company formally 
updates the market on its financial performance with Interim and 
Annual Reports in August and March respectively and quarterly 
updates in April or May and November . The content of these updates 
is posted on the Company’ s investor relations website, together with 
general information about the Company so as to be available to all 
shareholders. The Company has a regular programme of meetings 
with its major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity 
to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress 
of the business. On a more informal basis, the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly report to the Board 
the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the Senior 
Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available 
to meet shareholders on request, and are offered the opportunity to 
attend meetings with major shareholders. 
 
Directors’ indemnity
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company purchases 
and maintains Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover against certain 
legal liabilities and costs incurred by the Directors and Officers of the 
Group companies in the execution of their duties. The Company also 
granted an indemnity to each of its Directors in accordance with 
Section 232 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to the Directors’ 
exercise of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the 
Company , save to the extent that any such indemnity would be void 
under the Companies Act 2006. 
David Newlands 
Chairman of the Board 
27 February 2015 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination Committee report 
 
 
Role and terms of reference
The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to regularly review 
the structure, size and composition of the Board and the succession 
plans for the business, and to make recommendations to the Board 
on these and related matters. Accordingly , the Committee routinely: 
 evaluates and reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board; 
 assesses whether the size, structure and composition of the Board 
continues to meet the Group’ s business and strategic needs; 
 examines succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive; and 
 considers the retirements and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors as and when they arise. 
Decisions regarding the appointment of Directors are made by the 
Board as a whole on the basis of objective criteria and the Group’ s 
longer-term strategy. 
Membership 
During the year , the Nomination Committee was chaired by David 
Newlands and its other members were Tim Hancock, John Biles and 
David Lindsell. In accordance with the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, David Newlands does not chair the 
Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the matter of 
succession to the chairmanship of the Company . The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Number of meetings and attendance 
The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2014. The 
Committee has no fixed meeting schedule for 2015, but will 
continue to convene meetings as and when required. 
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the 
meetings, but the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
have both been invited to attend Committee meetings in the past 
to afford greater insight into matters of succession planning and 
Board composition. 
Main activities of the Committee in 2014 
Succession planning 
The Committee regularly keeps under review the leadership needs of 
the Company and the Group, both Executive and Non-executive, with 
a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete 
effectively in the marketplace. Over the past year , the Nomination 
Committee has looked closely at the topic of succession planning and 
the development programme for key senior managers, taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what 
skills and expertise may be needed on the Board in the future. 
Looking forward to 2015, the Committee will continue to assess the 
Group’ s succession plans, both for the Board and vital management 
roles within the Group, and work to expand on giving the Board 
greater exposure to the key senior managers and future talent pipeline 
across the business. 
Board appointment process 
Before any appointment is made by the Board, the Committee is 
tasked to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description 
of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
In identifying suitable candidates the Committee will: 
 use open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate 
the search; 
 consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds; 
 consider suitable internal candidates; 
 consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, taking 
care that appointees have enough time available to devote to the 
position; and 
 give due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including 
gender diversity . 
In September 2014, search firm Egon Zehnder was engaged to identify 
potential candidates for the role of Non-executive Director following 
the resignation of Alex Moss. As part of this process, a number 
of external candidates have been identified and a list of potential 
applicants is being reviewed by the Committee with a view to 
conducting interviews and making a recommendation to the Board 
for appointment in 2015. 
With regard to Board diversity , including gender diversity , the Company 
has just completed its first full financial year since its IPO and is still 
evolving in its new arena as a listed company . The current Board was 
chosen based on the mix of professional skills and experience that 
could add value to the Company at the time of IPO. The Board 
recognises the need for appropriate diversity in its membership and, 
as part of the current Non-executive Director recruitment process, a list 
of potential candidates has been drawn up, which includes female 
candidates. Any new Director will be recommended to the Board 
based on the mix of professional skills and experience that can add 
value to the Company rather than purely to improve diversity. 
Effectiveness
During the year , the Committee carried out an evaluation of its terms 
of reference and effectiveness through completion of a questionnaire 
by the Committee members within the context of the wider Board 
effectiveness review. This process concluded that the Committee 
was effective in terms of its expertise and use of time and that it had 
been provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties. The 
appointment of another Non-executive Director and the continued 
review of the succession plans for the Board and key roles across the 
Group were identified as the main priorities for 2015. 
David Newlands 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
27 February 2015 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 29
Other 
information
Audit Committee report 
 
 
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to introduce my second report as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee since my appointment to the Board in February 2013. 
This report has been written to offer shareholders an insight into the 
activities of the Committee during the year and provide an overview 
of how the Committee has reviewed the work of the external auditors 
and systems of internal control for effectiveness. It also gives the 
Committee’ s opinion on the fairness, balance and understandability 
of the Annual Report, when viewed as a whole, and provides greater 
detail on the programme for internal audit and the Company’ s risk 
management processes that the Committee oversees. 
In 2014, the Committee’ s focus was on sound financial reporting 
while strengthening and developing the Group’ s risk management 
and internal audit functions. In response to these areas of focus the 
Company has:  
 re-examined, enhanced and further embedded the Company’ s 
risk management processes across the Group;  
 conducted internal audits of the Company’ s business units in 
Sweden, China, Brazil, Japan, South Africa, Australia, Italy , the UK 
and the USA; and 
 investigated ethics cases identified through its systems of internal 
control and improved processes where required. 
Going forward, the action plan is to continue the good work 
achieved so far by looking in detail at more of the Company’ s 
business operations across the globe, with a further ten internal 
audits planned for 2015. The Committee will also be closely 
scrutinising the Company’ s review of the Group’ s business disaster 
recovery and business continuity plans and overseeing the 
development of the Company’ s stakeholder assurance plan and 
assurance map.  
I look forward to reporting to you on the progress made on these 
matters. 
John Biles 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
27 February 2015 
 
Audit report
Membership 
The members of the Committee are John Biles, David Lindsell 
and Tim Hancock, all of whom are considered by the Board to have 
the recent and relevant financial experience required to oversee the 
effective governance of the Group’ s financial reporting to shareholders. 
T ogether the Committee examines, challenges and debates the 
appropriateness and adequacy of the Group’ s financial reporting 
and disclosures, including the management and supervision of 
the Group’ s system of internal control and business risks and the 
function and performance of internal audit and the external auditors. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Number of meetings and attendance  
The Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2014. At the 
Committee’ s invitation, meetings are routinely attended by the 
Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer , Business 
Development Manager , Group Finance Manager and Internal Audit 
Manager to share their expertise and provide a deeper level of insight 
into certain key issues. The Committee also invited the external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , to attend each meeting. In line 
with best practice and Company policy , the Committee held separate 
private sessions with the Internal Audit Manager and external auditors, 
without management present, after the end of most meetings. 
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, John Biles reports to the Board 
on the principal matters discussed by the Committee. Outside Audit 
Committee meetings, John Biles has regular contact with the Chief 
Financial Officer , Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors to 
prepare for upcoming meetings, review their reports to the Committee 
and consider policies and practices in detail. 
The Committee is currently scheduled to meet four times in 2015 
and will convene additional meetings if required. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued 
 
Annual programme and terms of reference
The Committee generally meets immediately prior to Board meetings 
and each year the Committee reviews and adopts an annual 
programme of agenda items, shaped by its terms of reference, 
with standing topics for discussion at each quarterly meeting. 
This maximises the Committee’ s effectiveness in carrying out its 
responsibilities and working with the Board. 
The Committee’ s terms of reference are reviewed and approved 
annually to ensure that they continue to meet best practice and 
include all matters required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
and the UK Corporate Governance Code. The principal responsibilities 
of the Committee are: 
 monitoring the integrity and form and content of the 
financial statements, including Interim and Annual Reports, quarterly 
trading updates, final and half-year results announcements and any 
other formal announcements relating to financial performance; 
 reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting 
policies and practices; 
 advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair , 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s strategy, 
business model and performance; 
 reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal control and 
management of risk, including approving statements concerning 
internal control and risk management in the Annual Report 
and Accounts; 
 overseeing the relationships with the external auditors;  
 making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external 
auditors’ appointment, reappointment and removal at the AGM 
and setting and approving policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors for non-audit work; and 
 assessing the performance and reviewing the scope, results and 
effectiveness of internal audit. 
 
Main activities of the Committee in 2014 
During 2014 and in February 2015, the Committee considered 
and discussed the following key matters of relevance: 
Financial reporting 
The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting 
has been to review with management and the external auditors 
the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements 
concentrating on, amongst other matters: 
 the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices; 
 material areas where significant judgements have been applied or 
there has been a significant discussion with the external auditors; 
 the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements; and 
 whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair , 
balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s strategy, 
business model and performance. 
Reports from management were considered on significant matters 
and also reports from the external auditors on the outcome of their 
reviews. The Committee challenged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
to ensure that they had applied the necessary level of professional 
scepticism in their work. 
The principal areas of judgement considered by the Committee in 
relation to the 2014 accounts were as follows. 
 Recoverability of debtors and inventory (see Notes 10 and 11 
to the financial statements) 
The Committee received reports on the ageing of trade debtor 
balances outstanding and reviewed subsequent collections, 
payment history and the historical levels of provisioning and was 
satisfied that provisions were calculated on a basis consistent with 
prior years, took account of known problems with customers and 
are adequate.  
The Committee received a report on inventories which confirmed 
the calculation of provisions for obsolete stock items and any items 
where holdings appeared excessive. The basis of calculating 
inventory provisions is consistent with previous years and, based on 
historic usage patterns, provisions are considered adequate. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 31
Other 
information
 
 
 
 Going concern 
The validity of the going concern assumption used in preparation 
of the Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed in detail. 
Appropriate downside sensitivity analysis has been applied to 
assumptions used in calculating the net debt profile, committed 
facility headroom and financial covenants. There is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence. 
 Accounting policies and management representation 
The Committee approved the Group’ s accounting policies and 
also approved the representations made by management to the 
external auditors. 
 Fair , balanced and understandable 
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, 
taken as a whole, in the light of their knowledge of the Group 
and its performance and has concluded that it is fair , balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s strategy , business model 
and performance, and reported to the Board accordingly. 
Risk management 
Senior management are responsible for ensuring that risk 
management is integrated into all operations and functions. The 
Group’ s risk assessment process and the way that significant business 
risks are managed and mitigated are key areas of focus for the 
Committee in each meeting. The principal risks are summarised on 
page 19. 
The Company has made good progress in embedding the risk 
management process within the key manufacturing locations. A 
standard template risk register is used, which each of the locations has 
adapted for its local purposes. In addition to the headline risks, 
emerging risks are identified in the template and commented on. The 
individual risk registers are updated by local management throughout 
the year and the Group’ s risk register is renewed for each Audit 
Committee meeting. Regular updates are made to the individual 
business unit risk registers in order to enhance and demonstrate 
effective risk management throughout the Group. For example, during 
fieldwork the Internal Audit Manager reviews the risk register within 
each relevant location and suggests improvement, where required, or 
further clarifications in order to enhance the overall reporting. As a 
consequence, the risk register for each location now contains greater 
detail about the specific risks for that business location, as well as 
detailed commentary on the strategy for mitigating those risks.  
Internal control 
The Group’ s internal control framework is based on management’ s 
assessment of risk. Effectiveness of internal control is monitored by 
local management self-certification, management supervision and 
independent review by the Internal Audit Manager . 
The annual audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP includes a review of 
certain financial internal controls with any issues being included as part 
of their reports to management and the Committee. The Internal 
Audit Manager confirms during each audit visit that actions have been 
taken to rectify any matters raised. 
The Committee reviews the arrangements by which employees 
are able to raise any concerns they may have, in confidence, 
about possible wrongdoing or dishonest or unethical behaviour . 
A whistleblowing policy is in place for this purpose and the ethics 
policy protects anyone who comes forward to make such a disclosure. 
Should any disclosures be made, the Internal Audit Manager, in 
consultation with the Audit Committee Chairman, will decide on 
the appropriate level of investigation. The Committee is notified of 
all disclosures, results of investigations and actions taken and has the 
power to conduct further enquiries itself or other additional actions 
as it sees fit.  
Internal audit 
The Group’ s internal audit function is led by the Internal Audit 
Manager , who reports to the Chief Financial Officer but also has an 
independent reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The Committee receives summaries of all the internal audit reports 
from the Internal Audit Manager at every Committee meeting 
covering areas such as the effectiveness of financial and IT controls.  
An internal audit programme for 2014 was approved by the 
Committee and completed by the Internal Audit Manager to test key 
financial processes and controls in operation throughout the Group 
upon which management places reliance for the mitigation of risk. 
External auditing resources were deployed in Japan, China and Brazil 
during 2014 to assist the Internal Audit Manager with knowledge 
of local laws and regulations, as well as language and cultural skills 
wherever necessary .  
Where areas of weakness were identified, recommendations for 
improvements in controls were presented to the Committee and 
followed up with management until completed to ensure that all 
actions agreed were taken on a timely basis. 
An internal audit programme for 2015 has been reviewed by the 
Committee and is deemed appropriate in scope to fulfil the Group’ s 
internal audit strategy of visiting all manufacturing locations at least 
every two years and sales operations every five years. An internal 
audit risk assessment matrix has been developed by the Internal Audit 
Manager . It is updated annually and reviewed by the Chief Financial 
Officer and the Audit Committee. 
The Committee reviewed and assessed the internal audit function in 
2014 as effective and will continue to monitor and provide direction 
to its activities in 2015.  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued 
 
External audit 
Each year at the April and November meetings, the external auditors 
present their audit plans for the interim review and annual audit 
respectively . These plans are discussed with the external auditors and 
appropriate changes from the previous year’ s scope are agreed. 
The effectiveness of the external audit process depends on appropriate 
risk identification at the start of the cycle which is reviewed as part of 
the planning process. The principal risks identified by the external 
auditors for 2014 were in relation to provisions against debtors 
and inventory . 
Following completion of the audit, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
confirmed that no additional matters had arisen during the audit 
which required them to alter their planned procedures. The 
Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process based on 
its interaction with the external auditors and by obtaining feedback 
from management on the effectiveness of the process. For 2014, 
the Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate 
focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk. 
Training 
At each meeting, a paper is presented on any new accounting 
developments and any changes in corporate governance requirements 
that may affect the Group. The members of the Committee also 
attend external training sessions given by the big four firms of auditors 
and other advisers. 
External audit
Appointment 
The independence of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit 
process were assessed by the members of the Committee and the 
Internal Audit Manager. 
Having reviewed the performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in 
2014, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Board that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be reappointed for the 2015 audit and 
a resolution to this effect will be put to the 2015 AGM. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner 
every five years and other partners periodically in order to protect 
independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the 
Group. The current lead partner , Mrs Rosemary Shapland, has 
completed five annual audits and, therefore, will be standing down 
and replaced by a new lead partner for the 2015 audit if 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are reappointed.  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the external auditors of the 
Group since 2006. Having considered the Competition and Markets 
Authority’ s final order on mandatory re-tendering published in 
September 2014 and the associated transitional provisions, the 
Committee has concluded that the Company will be required to 
put the external audit contract out to tender by 2017.  
Fees 
In respect of the audit for 2014, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and 
its international member firms charged the Group €783,000 
(2013: €761,000) for audit and audit-related services. The Committee 
approved the fees for 2014 after considering the scope of the audit 
carried out this year and being satisfied by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
that the level of fees was appropriate for the amount of work required.  
Non-audit services 
The Committee regularly monitored and approved the services 
provided to the Group by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and has 
established a policy and pre-approval requirement for the provision 
of non-audit services to ensure that there is no impairment of 
objectivity and independence. For this purpose, auditing the 
accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation and 
other services provided pursuant to the legislation are regarded as 
audit services. The pre-approval requirement is subject to annual 
review by the Committee. 
For all non-audit services, any contract in excess of €20,000 must 
be approved by the Audit Committee Chairman and any individual 
engagement over €250,000 must be approved by the Committee. 
The external auditors are invited to provide services where their 
position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work. 
In 2014, this included all work required in connection with the 
simplification of the Group’ s structure following its UK listing through 
the phased movement of group entities from the Luxembourg holding 
companies, HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l and HellermannT yton Beta 
S.à.r .l., to the UK holding company , HellermannT yton Holdings Limited. 
Tax, valuation and general accounting work, especially where 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP could end up auditing its own work or 
where any other conflict could arise, is not permitted to be done by 
the external auditors and is put out to tender . There are no contractual 
restrictions on who the Committee can choose as external auditors. 
Committee evaluation
The Committee’ s performance was evaluated within the framework 
of the wider Board effectiveness review for 2014 and deemed 
effective. This was conducted internally through completion of a 
questionnaire by the members of the Committee, the Board, the 
Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors. Areas for 
improvement were identified and discussed by the Committee, and 
will be implemented in the coming year. 
John Biles 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
27 February 2015 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 33
Other 
information
Directors’ remuneration report  
 
  
Chairman’s annual statement
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present 
the report of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 
31 December 2014.  
Last year we reported for the first time on our remuneration 
arrangements as a listed company and shareholders were asked to 
vote at the 2014 AGM on our remuneration policy, as well as on the 
rest of the remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 
provisions that came into force in October 2013. The remuneration 
policy received strong support from shareholders, with a 95.43% vote 
in favour and the rest of the remuneration report received a 98.16% 
vote in favour . The Committee believes that the policy approved last 
year continues to support appropriately our remuneration principles, 
which are to: 
 attract and retain the best talent; 
 drive behaviours that support the Group’ s strategy and business 
objectives; 
 reward senior managers appropriately for their personal and 
collective achievements; and 
 provide incentives that help to maintain commitment over the 
longer term and align the interests of senior management with 
those of shareholders.  
Consequently , our remuneration policy is unchanged from last year 
and shareholders will not be asked to vote on the policy at our 2015 
AGM. Nevertheless, as requested by certain bodies representing 
institutional investors, we have set out the policy in this Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
The Committee notes the new requirement for malus and clawback in 
the UK FRC UK Corporate Governance Code, and confirms that the 
Company currently has discretion to apply clawback to paid and vested 
awards under both the annual bonus and L TIP if the measures on 
which the awards are based are misstated or in the event of gross 
misconduct. In light of this, the Committee has determined not to 
effect changes at this time, and will review the appropriateness of 
adjusting the clawback provision to include malus when the current 
policy expires. 
It has been another strong year for HellermannT yton, with 
performance exceeding Group business plan targets. Sales revenue 
and underlying EBITA, two of the four key measures used by the 
Company to measure the Group’ s performance, which are shown 
on page 18 and are the two principal performance measures for 
the annual bonus, increased by 13.5% and 11.4% respectively 
in constant currency terms and exceeded the budgeted amounts 
by 7.1% and 4.4% respectively . As a result, the Remuneration 
Committee has awarded an annual bonus of 61.12% of salary 
to Steve Salmon and 52.61% of salary to Tim Jones. 
No Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) awards have yet qualified for vesting 
as the vesting date of the first L TIP awards (made on the date of the 
Company’ s listing) is 2 April 2016. 
In determining the 2014 L TIP awards granted to the Executive Directors 
and key senior managers, the Committee considered in particular the 
performance measures to be applied in the light of our remuneration 
principles, as set out above. It noted that relative total shareholder 
return (TSR) remained an effective basis for aligning shareholder and 
executive interests and therefore decided that it should be retained as 
an L TIP performance measure. The Committee noted at the same time 
that the Company’ s long-term objective is to achieve growth of 
between 3% and 4% above that of global industrial production, 
and concluded that growth in earnings per share (EPS) continued 
to provide an appropriate measure for incentivising management to 
achieve this long-term objective and should therefore also be retained, 
with vesting of 50% of the award being subject to each of the two 
performance measures. The Committee reviewed various forecasts 
of global economic growth for 2014–2016 and noted that the 
average annual forecast rate of growth over the three years was of the 
order of 3.1%. Accordingly , the Committee concluded that the 
threshold vesting level of 7% annual EPS growth was consistent with 
the Company’ s long-term growth objective. 
The Committee awarded salary increases of 2.5% to each of the 
Executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2015, in line with the salary 
increases awarded to the Group’ s UK employees.  
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support and recommend this report to you.  
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
27 February 2015 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Policy report 
Directors’ remuneration policy 
The Committee’ s primary objective is to ensure that reward packages 
for Directors and senior executives are competitive in order to attract 
and retain the best talent, and are directly linked to the achievement 
of performance targets. The Committee has completed an annual 
review of the policy for continued appropriateness and relevance and 
is satisfied that no changes to policy are required at this time. The 
Committee will continue to assess the remuneration arrangements 
of the Company and monitor market trends on an annual basis. 
The Company’ s policy on executive remuneration is that the 
Remuneration Committee should satisfy itself that Executive Directors 
are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Group’ s 
performance. The Committee seeks to ensure that they receive a level 
of remuneration that is appropriate to their scale of responsibility and 
performance and that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of 
the necessary calibre. 
The Committee believes it is important that executive remuneration is 
weighted to rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation 
of shareholder value over time: an exceptional achievement in terms of 
longer-term shareholder value creation should attract upper quartile 
levels of remuneration, whilst below average value creation should 
result in much more modest levels of remuneration. With this in mind, 
remuneration for the Executive Directors is structured around five main 
components: base salary , pension and benefits, annual performance 
bonus, the Long T erm Incentive Plan and all-employee share plans. 
Further , the Committee endeavours to ensure that remuneration policy 
is consistent with sound corporate governance and in accordance 
with the guidance of institutional shareholder bodies such as the 
Association of British Insurers. 
In addition to reviewing and approving the remuneration of Executive 
Directors and the remuneration arrangements for the Group’ s senior 
managers, the Committee administers the Company’s share incentive 
plans. The Committee also determines the Chairman’ s remuneration, 
although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the Non-
executive Directors. No Director is involved in determining his own 
remuneration. 
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive 
and Non-executive Directors, which shareholders approved at the 
2014 AGM and was brought into effect formally from 30 April 2014 
(the date of the 2014 AGM). The Policy Report has been updated and 
clarified as follows: 
 pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 
2015 salaries; 
 Doughty Hanson disposed of their shareholding during 2014 and 
therefore the terms of the Relationship Agreement no longer apply; 
and 
 clarification that pensionable remuneration will be restricted to base 
salary for all future Executive Directors. 
 
 
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
The table below summarises the key components of remuneration package for Executive Directors:  
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics 
Base salary 
T o provide an appropriate 
level of salary to support 
recruitment and retention, 
with due regard to the 
individual’ s responsibilities 
and experience. 
 Typically reviewed annually by the 
Committee with any changes taking 
effect on 1 April. 
 When setting the Executive Directors’ 
base salaries the Committee 
considers a range of factors, including:
– salary levels for similar jobs in 
relevant UK listed companies 
comparable to HellermannT yton 
in size and complexity; 
– personal performance and 
experience;  
– the individual’ s role within the Group 
and level of responsibility; 
– the balance between fixed and 
variable reward; and 
– relative remuneration levels 
throughout the Group. 
 Base salary increases are 
applied in line with the 
outcome of the annual 
review.  
 Salary increases for Executive 
Directors will not normally 
exceed those of the wider 
workforce over the term of 
this policy. Increases may be 
above this level if there is an 
increase in the scale, scope, 
market comparability or 
responsibilities of the role. 
Where increases are awarded 
in excess of the wider 
employee population, the 
Committee will explain its 
rationale in the relevant 
year’ s annual report on 
remuneration. 
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 35
Other 
information
 
 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation  Opportunity Performance metrics 
Pension 
T o provide a competitive 
pension provision. 
 Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate in one of the Group’ s 
defined contribution pension plans. 
The pensionable element of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration is capped 
and this applies whether or not an 
executive is a member of one of the 
defined contribution pension plans or 
has a personal pension arrangement. 
 Company contribution 
of up to 21% of salary 
and pensionable bonus 
capped at 10% of salary. 
Contribution percentage 
of salary may be exceeded 
in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. recruitment) (see 
Notes to the policy table on 
page 36).
Not applicable. 
Benefits 
T o provide benefits that are 
competitive. 
 The Executive Directors receive a 
range of benefits, including: 
– private health insurance; 
– income protection scheme; 
– life assurance; and 
– company car or car allowance. 
 Where appropriate, other benefits may 
be offered, including, but not limited 
to, allowances for relocation. 
 Benefits vary by role and 
individual circumstance, 
and are reviewed periodically 
to ensure they remain 
appropriate.  
Not applicable. 
Annual bonus 
T o motivate and reward 
executives’ personal and 
collective achievements. 
 Performance is based on annual 
targets for each financial year. 
 Performance measures and targets 
are set at the start of each financial 
year to be consistent with business 
priorities for the period. 
 At the end of the year , the Committee 
determines the extent to which these 
were achieved. 
 Awards are paid in cash.  
 Payment of 30% of the bonus may be 
deferred for up to three years. 
 The annual bonus provides 
for awards of up to 100% of 
base salary per annum. 
 Bonus for on-target 
performance is 45% of salary.
 
 
 Performance is based on Group 
targets. 
 Group performance measures will 
include, but may not be limited to, 
adjusted underlying earnings before 
interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA) 
and sales.  
 A bonus award may be clawed back 
at any time within 12 months after 
payment if the measures on which 
the bonus award is based are 
misstated or in the event of gross 
misconduct. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation  Opportunity Performance metrics 
Long T erm Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) 
To incentivise and reward 
long-term performance 
and to support alignment 
with shareholders through 
relative stock market 
outperformance. 
 The Committee may grant annual 
LTIP awards.  
 Awards are granted in the form of 
performance shares or nominal cost 
options which vest after three years 
subject to achievement of 
performance conditions and 
continued employment. 
 Performance periods are three years. 
 Ahead of each grant, the performance 
measures and targets are reviewed by 
the Committee to ensure they remain 
appropriate. 
 Dividends may accrue on L TIP awards 
and be paid on those shares that vest.
 
 Awards may be granted 
each year up to 200% 
of salary. 
 At threshold performance, 
25% of the award is payable.
 Awards vest subject to three-year 
earnings per share (EPS) growth and 
three-year relative total shareholder 
return (TSR), each equally weighted. 
 Relative TSR is measured against the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment 
trusts). Ahead of each performance 
cycle, the Committee may review and 
adjust the TSR comparator group for 
future cycles to ensure it remains 
relevant to HellermannT yton. 
 Before finalising the amounts of long-
term incentives that will vest, the 
Committee may also consider other 
measures of assessing underlying 
performance and, if appropriate, 
reduce the level of vesting. 
 Awards vesting under the L TIP are 
subject to clawback at any time 
within 12 months after the date of 
vesting if the measures on which the 
award is based are misstated or in the 
event of gross misconduct.
Global Share Plan (“GSP”) 
To reward past support and 
loyalty to the Company, 
encourage share ownership 
and align their interests with 
those of shareholders. 
 An HMRC approved scheme under 
which employees are invited to make 
contributions to buy partnership shares 
using gross pay. If an employee agrees 
to buy partnership shares, the 
company currently matches the 
number of partnership shares with 
“matching shares” up to a certain 
level, subject to continued 
employment for three years.  
 Dividends accrue on investment and 
matching shares and are automatically 
reinvested. 
 Executive Directors can 
purchase HellermannT yton 
shares up to the HMRC 
permitted allowance, which 
are then subject to a 
maximum “match” in line 
with HMRC rules. 
 The vesting of matching shares is 
usually subject to continued 
employment and, at the Committee’ s 
discretion, may be subject to 
performance targets. The matching 
shares may also be subject to a 
holding period.  
 
Notes to the policy table 
Global Share Plan 
Free share awards were offered to Executive Directors under the GSP 
on the Company’ s admission to the London Stock Exchange in 2013, 
as proposed in the IPO Prospectus. The Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer each received 214 free shares, based on their length 
of service, which will vest after three years in 2016 subject to 
continued employment. It is intended that only partnership and 
matching shares under the GSP will be offered to Executive Directors 
on a regular basis.  
Pension payments under past policy 
Under arrangements entered into many years ago, the Chief Executive 
receives a fixed pension allowance of £15,500 per year . He is also 
entitled to a lump sum on his retirement as a Director of 
HellermannT yton Co., Ltd (Japan), calculated by reference to his length 
of service and his monthly remuneration from that Company at the 
time of his retirement, and to which a supplement of 30% may be 
added at the discretion of HellermannT yton Co., Ltd (Japan). The 
estimated value of the benefit of this arrangement accruing during 
2014 was £9,800 and is funded out of the 21% contribution referred 
to in the table above. It is not intended to grant this pension 
arrangement to any future Executive Director .  
Also under arrangements entered into many years ago, the annual 
bonus earned by the two Executive Directors is pensionable, capped at 
10% of salary . Pensionable remuneration will be restricted to basic 
salary in the case of all future Executive Directors.  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 37
Other 
information
 
 
Performance measurement selection 
Executive Directors participate in the annual bonus plan and the L TIP . 
These plans are designed to incentivise and to provide reward for the 
achievement of demanding financial and business-related objectives. 
The aim of the annual bonus plan is to reward key executives over 
and above fixed pay for the achievement of business objectives. The 
bonus criteria are designed to encourage continuous performance 
improvement by the Group. Group financial performance targets 
relating to the annual bonus plan are set from the Company’ s annual 
budget, which is reviewed and approved by the Board prior to the start 
of each financial year . Adjusted underlying EBITA and sales revenue are 
used as key performance indicators for the annual bonus plan because 
they provide clear line-of-sight to the underlying financial performance 
of the Group.  
Long-term share-based incentives are designed to align the interests of 
Executive Directors with the longer-term interests of the Company’ s 
shareholders by rewarding them for delivering sustained, increased 
shareholder value. Accordingly , the vesting of L TIP share awards is 
linked to growth in the Company’ s EPS and TSR. For the L TIP , 
performance measures and targets are reviewed by the Committee 
ahead of each grant and must be considered by the Committee to be 
challenging but achievable.  
Remuneration policy for other employees 
HellermannT yton’ s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent 
across the Group. Key senior managers are eligible to participate in 
the annual bonus scheme, with targets appropriate to organisational 
level and business area. Key senior managers are also eligible for 
consideration of L TIP awards to further support alignment with 
shareholder interests. L TIP performance conditions are consistent 
for these employees, while award opportunities may vary by 
organisational level or business area.  
Shareholding guidelines 
Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a holding of 
shares equal in value to their base salaries. They are expected to build 
up the required shareholding by the fifth anniversary of their joining 
the Board and are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested 
awards under the L TIP until this guideline is met.  
 
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors  
The table below summarises the Company’ s remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.  
Purpose and link to strategy Operation  Opportunity Performance metrics
Fees 
Provide competitive remuneration to 
attract and retain Directors of the 
necessary calibre. 
 Chairman and Non-executive Directors receive 
a basic fee for their respective roles. Additional 
fees are paid for chairing a Board Committee 
and for the position of Senior Independent 
Director. 
 Fees are typically reviewed every two years 
with reference to fee levels at a range of 
relevant UK listed companies comparable to 
HellermannT yton in size and complexity and 
take into account the time commitment 
required and responsibilities assumed. 
 The Chairman’ s fee is determined by the 
Committee and the other Non-executive 
Directors’ fees are determined by the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors. 
 The Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
do not participate in the Company’s incentive 
or share schemes.
 Fee increases are applied 
in line with the outcome 
of the biennial review.  
Not applicable. 
    
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Pay scenario charts 
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future 
reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors, 
and the potential split between different elements of remuneration 
under three different scenarios; “Minimum”, “Target” and 
“Maximum” performance. 
Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table 
below. The projected value of the L TIP excludes the impact of share 
price growth and dividend accrual. Actual pay delivered, however , will 
be influenced by these factors. 
 
  Minimum T arget Maximum
Fixed Includes: Base salary – latest known salary (effective from 1 April 2015). 
Benefits – as per the single figure for 2014 disclosed in the annual report on remuneration. 
Pension For Steve Salmon, 21% of salary plus 
lump sum allowance and the estimated 
value of the benefit of the retirement 
sum entitlement accruing during 2014. 
For Steve Salmon, same assumptions as for minimum scenario but also includes 
pensionable bonus (capped at 10% of salary).  
For Tim Jones, 16% of salary . For Tim Jones, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also includes pensionable 
bonus (capped at 10% of salary). 
Annual 
bonus 
None. 45% of salary.  100% of salary.  
LTIP No vesting. 25% of award at 150% of salary.  100% of award at 150% of salary.  
Note: L TIP opportunity of 150% is based on opportunity of L TIP awards expected to be granted in 2015.  
Approach to recruitment remuneration 
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director , the Committee may make use of any or all of the existing components 
of remuneration, as follows: 
Component Approach Maximum value 
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the 
individual’ s role and responsibilities, experience and skills, relevant market data, 
internal relativities and their current base salary. 
 
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in a Group pension plan in line with 
the policy. 
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy. 
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy will apply to new appointees with the 
relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment 
over the year.  
Up to 100% of salary per annum.
LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the L TIP which will normally 
be on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the policy. 
Up to 200% of salary per annum.
Global Share Plan (“GSP”) New appointees will be eligible to participate in the GSP in line with the policy.  
  
Steve Salmon
Chief Executive
Minimum
£891
£1,585
Target Maximum
Performance scenario chart
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
£’000
£541
83%
17%
50%
11%
21%
18%
28%
6%
26%
40%
Fixed Pension Annual bonus LTI
Tim Jones
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Minimum
£577
£1,052
Target Maximum
Performance scenario chart
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
£338
87%
13%
51%
9%
22%
18%
28%
5%
27%
40%
Fixed Pension Annual bonus LTI
£’000
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 38 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 39
Other 
information
 
 
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, 
the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors 
(including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction 
from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that the pay 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders.  
The Committee may consider it appropriate to “buy out” incentive 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer using the 
existing elements of the remuneration policy or may make use of 
Listing Rule 9.4.2 R to do this. In doing so, the Committee will ensure 
the award will not exceed the fair value of the awards forfeited, using 
a Black-Scholes or equivalent valuation and, where applicable, taking 
into account the toughness of performance conditions attached to the 
forfeited awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met.  
When a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal 
promotion, the Remuneration Committee will determine their 
remuneration on a basis that is consistent with the policy for external 
appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual 
commitments made prior to his or her appointment as an Executive 
Director , the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.  
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director , the 
Committee will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 37.  
Policy on external appointments 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept Non-executive Director 
appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received 
provided that the Board’s approval is obtained. 
Service contracts 
Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the 
Company which came into effect on 2 April 2013 and which can be 
terminated by the Executive Director on six months’ written notice and 
by the Company on 12 months’ written notice. Upon leaving service 
at the request of the Company (other than for gross misconduct), the 
Executive Director is entitled to receive pre-determined compensation 
equivalent to 12 months’ base salary , pension contributions (or 
amounts in lieu thereof) and taxable benefits and, in the case of bonus 
entitlement, the Director will not normally be entitled to any bonus for 
the year in which he leaves the Company , but will be entitled to any 
accrued but unpaid entitlement in respect of the previous financial year 
and any bonus in respect of previous years the payment of which was 
deferred. Each of the Executive Directors is additionally entitled to 
redundancy pay of 1.5 weeks’ pay for each complete year of service 
over the age of 40 and one week’ s pay for every complete year of 
service between age 18 to 40 inclusive, plus an ex-gratia payment of 
£250 for each complete year of service. In the event of termination by 
the Company other than for breach of contract, or by the individual 
due to retirement, a payment of £47,987 will be made to Steve 
Salmon and a payment of £8,763 will be made to Tim Jones, 
equivalent to the aggregate amounts by which each of their 
remuneration has been reduced up until February 2013 under a 
temporary pay reduction scheme for senior employees. The scheme 
was suspended on 31 March 2013 and whilst it may be reinstituted 
in the future there is no current plan to do so.  
In the event of a change of control of the Company , the Executive 
Director must be offered employment by the Company’ s successor 
or by any company in the Group on terms in all respects no less 
favourable than those applicable immediately prior to such change of 
control. If the Executive Director declines this offer , then the Company 
is entitled to terminate his contract either by giving 12 months' notice 
or by payment of the remuneration entitlement for the notice period. 
The Chairman and all of the current Non-executive Directors were first 
appointed on 22 February 2013, for a term of two years. On the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board 
reappointed them on 26 February 2015 for a term of three years, 
which is the period commonly adopted by companies. The 
appointment can be terminated by either party on one month’ s notice. 
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are also subject to 
annual re-election at the AGM. Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and the Chairman’ s and the Non-executive Directors’ letters of 
appointment are available to view at the Company’ s registered office.  
Exit payment policy and change of control provisions 
The Company’ s policy is to limit any payment made to a departing 
Director to contractual arrangements and to honour any pre-
established commitments. As part of this process, the Committee 
will take into consideration the Executive Director’ s duty to mitigate 
their loss. 
The table overleaf summarises how the awards under the annual 
bonus, L TIP and GSP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios 
and on a change of control. Whilst the Board retains overall discretion 
on determining “good leaver” status, it typically defines a “good 
leaver” in circumstances such as retirement with the consent of the 
company , injury , ill-health or disability , death, redundancy , if the part 
of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceases 
to be part of the Group, or any other reason as the Board decides. 
Final treatment is subject to the Board’ s discretion. 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Notes:  
1. Any bonus from previous years the payment of which was deferred would be paid to a leaver regardless of status on change of control. 
2. Upon exit or change of control, GSP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules. 
 
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company 
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the pay 
and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. In particular, the 
Committee considers the range of base pay increases across the Group 
as a factor in determining the base salary increases for Executive 
Directors. Further , the Committee regularly reviews the remuneration 
structure and pay proposals for senior managers, and approves the 
structure and targets for their bonus plans. It also monitors any major 
changes in employee benefit structures.  
The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the 
effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy and 
framework although, as members of the Board, the Committee 
receives updates from the Executive Directors on their discussions 
and consultations with employees. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback on any issue related 
to Directors’ remuneration and will take into account all feedback 
received in determining future remuneration policy. 
 
Annual report on remuneration 
This section provides details of how the remuneration policy was 
implemented during the year and how the Committee intends to 
apply the policy in 2015. 
The following parts of this section are audited: the single total figure 
of remuneration for Directors, including annual bonus for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2014; L TIP awards made during the year; 
Directors’ pension arrangements; and Directors’ shareholdings and 
share interests.  
Remuneration Committee 
Membership 
During the year , the Remuneration Committee was chaired by David 
Lindsell and its other members were David Newlands, Tim Hancock 
and John Biles. The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the 
Committee. The Chief Executive attended Committee meetings as 
appropriate to provide advice on matters such as senior management 
remuneration. No Director was present when his own remuneration 
was being discussed. 
 
Event  Timing of vesting/award Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus 
“Good leaver”  Paid at the same time as 
continuing employees. 
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied and the award 
is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served. 
“Bad leaver”  No annual bonus payable. Not applicable. 
Change of control Paid immediately on the 
effective date of change 
of control. 
Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied up to the 
change of control and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year 
served to the effective date of change of control. 
L TIP 
“Good leaver” In the event of the death 
of a participant, the award 
would vest immediately. 
For other good leavers, 
awards vest immediately 
unless decided otherwise 
by the Board.  
In the event of the death of a participant during the performance period, the award 
would vest in full. For other good leavers, outstanding awards vest to the extent the 
performance conditions are satisfied and the awards are pro-rated to reflect the length 
of the vesting period served unless the Board decides otherwise.  
“Bad leaver”  Outstanding awards are 
forfeited.  
Not applicable. 
Change of control Vest immediately on the 
effective date of change of 
control unless the Board 
decides otherwise. 
Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions as at the 
effective date of change of control, and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of 
the vesting period served to the effective date of change of control unless the Board 
decides otherwise. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 40 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 41
Other 
information
 
 
Meetings 
The Committee met four times during 2014 and has had two 
meetings to date in 2015.  
Committee activity and key decisions in 2014 
Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2014 
included:  
The reviews of market trends and developments in executive 
remuneration and of the continued appropriateness of the Company’ s 
remuneration policy and arrangements were carried out with the 
assistance of the Company’ s independent remuneration adviser , Kepler 
Associates (“Kepler”). 
Committee evaluation 
The Board conducted an internal review of Committee effectiveness 
during the year and concluded that the Committee has acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its 
responsibilities effectively. 
Independent advice  
During the year , the Committee continued to engage Kepler as its 
principal independent adviser . The Committee evaluates the support 
provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that Kepler provides 
independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not 
have any connections with HellermannT yton that may impair 
their independence. Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the 
Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can 
be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During the 
year , Kepler provided advice on market and best practice for executive 
remuneration. No other services were provided by Kepler to the 
Group. The fees paid to Kepler for work carried out in 2014 for the 
Remuneration Committee were £36,725 based on time and materials. 
Summary of shareholder voting  
The table below shows the voting outcome for the Company’ s 
remuneration policy and remuneration report at the AGM held on 
30 April 2014. 
For (%) Against (%) Withheld
Approval of 
remuneration 
policy 149,700,069 95.43 7,170,979 4.57 0
Approval of 
remuneration 
report 153,940,279 98.16 2,880,769 1.84 50,000
  
February
1
July
December
Matters considered at Committee meetings
> approved annual bonus awards for 2013 
to Executive Directors and senior managers
> agreed the terms of the bonus plan, 
including performance measures, for 2014
> reviewed senior management salaries, 
including Executive Directors
> considered LTIP awards to be made in 
2014 to the Executive Directors and certain 
senior managers (conﬁrmed by the Board 
in May)
> considered and approved the 2013 
Directors’ remuneration report
> approved LTIP awards to certain senior 
managers
> reviewed market trends and developments 
in executive remuneration
> reviewed the Committee’ s terms
of reference
> reviewed forecasts of senior managers’ 
bonuses for 2014
> reviewed remuneration policy and 
arrangements in the light of market trends, 
and conﬁrmed that they remained 
appropriate
> reviewed and approved the Committee’ s 
rolling annual agenda
> reviewed the draft Directors’ remuneration 
report for 2014
1.   The Committee met twice in February.
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Single total figure of remuneration  
The table below sets out information on the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
 
Salary
1
£’000 
T axable 
benefits
3
£’000
 
Annual 
bonus
£’000
Long-term
incentives
4
£’000
Pension
£’000
Other 
payments
5
£’000 
Total
2
£’000
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Steve Salmon 401 389 34 33 247 310 N/A N/A 98 91 nil nil 780 823
Tim Jones 275 243 9 9 146 167 N/A N/A 48 42 nil nil 478 461
Notes: 
1. Salaries from 1 April 2014 were £403,850 (£394,000 from 1 April 2013) for Steve Salmon, and £276,750 (£270,000 from 1 April 2013) for Tim Jones. Steve Salmon’ s salary for 2013 
in the table above includes £4,800 that has been deferred under a pay reduction scheme (see “Service contracts” on page 39) 
2. The 2013 amounts include the remuneration paid to the two Executive Directors by the previous holding company of the Group, HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l, for the period from 
1 January 2013 to the date of the Company’ s listing on 2 April 2013. 
3. Taxable value of benefits received in the year by Executives includes private health insurance, life assurance, income protection scheme and company car or car allowance.  
4. The first L TIP awards were granted in 2013 and therefore no L TIP awards vested in 2013 or 2014.  
5. Each Executive Director was awarded 214 free shares on 2 April 2013 valued at £417 based on the share price of £1.95 at date of grant. 
The table below sets out information on the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
Base fee
£’000
Additional fees 
£’000 
Total
£’000
 
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
David Newlands 135 115 nil nil 135 115
Tim Hancock 55 47 5 4 60 51
John Biles 55 47 5 4 60 51
David Lindsell 55 47 5 4 60 51
Alex Moss
1
 nil nil nil nil nil nil
Notes: 
1. Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Company and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited (“Doughty Hanson”), Doughty Hanson was entitled to nominate one 
Non-executive Director of the Company at any time for so long as it held at least 10% of the Company’ s shares. Alex Moss was the person nominated by Doughty Hanson to be appointed 
as Non-executive Director upon the Company’s incorporation. He resigned on 21 March 2014 when Doughty Hanson sold its remaining shareholding in the Company . He received no 
remuneration during his term of appointment. 
 
Annual bonus awarded for performance in 2014 
The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive Directors in 2014 was 100% of base salary, and bonus for on-target performance was 
45% of base salary . For any bonus to be earned a threshold performance of 90% of the targets for both Group adjusted underlying EBITA and 
Group external sales was required to be achieved in the case of Steve Salmon and 85% in the case of Tim Jones, with additional bonus being 
earned pro-rata to performance above the threshold level in respect of those measures. The other measure, return on sales, is a performance 
hurdle rather than a threshold such that the full allocated bonus percentage is awarded if the target or condition is achieved and no bonus is 
awarded if the target or condition is not achieved. 
 
 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 43
Other 
information
 
 
The table below sets out the performance measures, their relative weightings and achievements against specific targets for 2014.  
Steve Salmon 
Measure TargetThreshold
Bonus % of current 
salary at target Actual performance 
Bonus % of current 
salary at actual 
performance
Group adjusted underlying EBITA
1
 €86.858 million 90% of target 35%
2
104.39% of target
5
 52.56%
Group external sales €566.94 million 90% of target 5%
3
107.13% of target
5
 8.56%
Return on Sales 15.32%Budget
4
5% Lower than budget 0%
1. Group adjusted underlying EBIT A for bonus purposes is underlying EBIT A as shown on page 17, reduced by the amount by which actual one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs. 
Target is the budgeted amount (net of budgeted one-off costs). 
2. Bonus of 3.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved. 
3. 0.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved. 
4. Bonus of 5% of salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget. “Return” for this purpose is underlying EBIT A 
as shown on page 17. 
5. For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency 
amounts in the Group income statement. 
Tim Jones  
Measure TargetThreshold
Bonus % of current 
salary at target Actual performance
3
 
Bonus % of current 
salary at actual 
performance
Group adjusted underlying EBITA
1
 €86.858 million 85% of target 35%
2
104.39% of target
5
 45.23%
Group external sales €566.94 million 85% of target 5%
3
107.13% of target
5
 7.38%
Return on sales 15.32%Budget
4
5% Lower than budget 0%
1. Group adjusted underlying EBIT A for bonus purposes is underlying EBIT A as shown on page 17, reduced by the amount by which actual one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs. 
Target is the budgeted amount (net of budgeted one-off costs). 
2. Bonus of 2.33% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.  
3. 0.33% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved. 
4. Bonus of 5% of salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget. “Return” for this purpose is underlying EBIT A 
as shown on page 17. 
5.  For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same actual average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency 
amounts in the Group income statement. 
The Committee therefore awarded a total bonus of 61.12% of salary to Steve Salmon (equal to £246,817) and 52.61% of salary to Tim Jones 
(equal to £145,611). The bonus was paid in full with no deferral. 
Long T erm Incentive Plan (“L TIP”) awards granted in 2014 
Awards to the Executive Directors were made on 1 May 2014 of 150% of salary. 
Vesting of L TIP awards is based 50% on annualised growth in the Company’ s earnings per share (“EPS”) and 50% on the Company’ s total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) compared to the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) measured over a three-year period. For EPS-based awards 
the performance period covers the 2014–2016 financial years and for TSR-based awards the performance period started on 1 May 2014. 
The performance targets are as follows:  
  
EPS growth 
TSR rank compared to FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) Percentage of award vesting 
Less than 7% per annum Below median  Nil 
7% per annum Median  25% 
12% per annum Upper quartile  100% 
Between 7% and 12% per annum Between median and upper quartile  Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis
The following table shows the L TIP awards that were made to the Executive Directors on 1 May 2014 based on the share price at that date of 
£3.20. 
Director 
Number 
of shares
Face value 
£ 
Face value  
% of salary Vesting date
Steve Salmon 189,305 605,776 150% 1 May 2017
Tim Jones 129,727 415,126 150% 1 May 2017
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Directors’ pension arrangements 
The Company has put in place pension arrangements for its Executive Directors as outlined in the policy table on pages 35 and 36. The Company 
does not have a normal retirement age for employees.  
During 2014, Steve Salmon received the following pension benefits, which are included in the single figure disclosed on page 42: 
 The estimated value accruing during 2014, amounting to £9,800, of the benefit of his retirement lump sum entitlement as a Director of 
HellermannT yton Co., Ltd (Japan). Had Steve Salmon retired on 31 December 2014 the retirement lump sum (including a discretionary 
uplift of 30%) would have amounted to approximately £122,000;  
 a fixed pension allowance of £15,500; and 
 Payments of £97,525 in lieu of pension, of which £8,274 arises from the pensionable element of his bonus. 
During 2014, contributions of £48,330 were made to the Company’ s defined contribution scheme on behalf of Tim Jones, of which £4,320 
arises from the pensionable element of his bonus. 
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests 
The table below summarises the Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company , including those held under outstanding L TIP and GSP 
awards, as at 31 December 2014. All the shares owned outright or vested are beneficial interests. Executive Directors are required to build up 
and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries by the fifth anniversary of their joining the Board and they are required to 
retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under the L TIP until this guideline is met. The shareholdings of the current Executive Directors 
already significantly exceed this requirement.  
Director 
Owned outright 
or vested
Unvested and subject 
to performance 
conditions
Unvested and subject  
to continued 
employment 
T otal share 
interests
Steve Salmon 1,001,042 492,382 461 1,493,885
Tim Jones 297,777 337,419 264 635,460
David Newlands 50,000 N/A N/A 50,000
Tim Hancock 25,000 N/A N/A 25,000
John Biles 25,439 N/A N/A 25,439
David Lindsell 20,000 N/A N/A 20,000
Between 31 December 2014 and 27 February 2015 Steve Salmon and Tim Jones each purchased an additional 96 partnership shares, which 
were matched under the terms of the GSP . 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 45
Other 
information
 
 
Performance review 
The graph to the right compares the value of £100 invested in 
HellermannT yton shares, including reinvested dividends, with the 
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index since the listing of 
the Company’s shares on the London Stock Exchange in April 
2013 The FTSE 250 index was selected as a relevant comparator 
as it includes companies of a similar size and complexity to 
HellermannT yton and as the Company is a constituent of the index. 
T o be commensurate with Company performance for 2013 in the 
graph, the single figure of remuneration for the Chief Executive for 
2013 in the table that follows the graph is his remuneration from 
the date of listing, 2 April 2013, to 31 December 2013. 
  
 2014 2013
Chief Executive single figure of remuneration (£’000) 780 622
Annual bonus payout as % of maximum  61.12% 78.7%
L TIP vesting as % of maximum opportunity N/A N/A
  
Change in Chief Executive remuneration 
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive’ s salary , taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2013 and 2014, 
compared with the average percentage change from 2013 to 2014 in the cash-based remuneration of the Group’ s UK-based employees. 
The Committee believes that UK-based employees are the most appropriate comparator employee group for the Executive Directors as 
both groups are based in the UK and are therefore subject to the same inflationary and currency environment.  
Chief  
Executive 
All UK-based 
employees
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
%  
change 
% 
change
Salary 401 389 3.1% 2.5%
Taxable benefits 34 33 3.0% 0%
Annual variable 247 310 -20.3% 6.9%
Total 682 732 -6.8% 7.7%
  
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Company for 2013 and 2014 and the difference in spend between those years, on (a) total 
employee remuneration and (b) distributions to shareholders.  
2014
€m
2013 
€m 
% 
change
Total employee remuneration 185.9 166.6 11.6%
Dividends
1
     interim dividend paid 5.8 2.8 114%
2
        final dividend proposed 12.1 11.3 7.6%
1. As the Company was incorporated in February 2013 and therefore paid only one, interim dividend, during 2013, the dividends for 2014 and 2013 in the table above are the interim 
dividend and proposed final dividend in respect of the relevant year rather than the dividends paid in the year . 
2. The amount of the 2013 interim dividend reflected the fact that the Company’ s shares were not listed until April 2013. 
 
(£)
Total shareholder return (monthly) 
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
2/4/13 2/7/13 1/10/13 31/12/13 1/4/14 1/7/14 30/9/14 31/12/14
HellermannTyton FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
Statement of implementation of policy for the financial year 
ending 31 December 2015 
2015 Executive Director base salaries 
The Committee has reviewed the Executive Directors’ base salaries, 
taking account of the factors set out in the policy table on page 34, 
and considers it appropriate to increase them by 2.5%, to £413,946 in 
the case of Steve Salmon and £283,669 in the case of Tim Jones, with 
effect from 1 April 2015. This level of increase is similar to the average 
salary increase awarded to the Group’ s UK employees. 
For 2015, taxable benefits and pension will be in line with the policy 
set out in the policy report. 
2015 annual bonus measures and weightings 
As set out in the policy table on page 35, the maximum annual 
bonus opportunity for both Executive Directors for 2015 will be 100% 
of salary. 
In line with the stated policy, the annual bonus will be based on Group 
operational and financial performance targets. For 2015, the measures 
for the Executive Directors are: 
 adjusted underlying EBITA;  
 external sales; and 
 return on sales. 
The Committee considers that the weightings and performance 
targets for 2015 are commercially sensitive and they are therefore not 
disclosed. They are expected to be disclosed in the 2015 Directors’ 
remuneration report to the extent that they are no longer commercially 
sensitive. 
Long T erm Incentive Plan 
The Committee intends to grant L TIP awards in 2015 of 150% of base 
salary to Executive Directors which will vest in line with the policy. 
Global Share Plan (“GSP”) awards 
Steve Salmon has participated in the partnership and matching 
element of the GSP since it was introduced in December 2013 and 
Tim Jones has participated in the partnership and matching scheme 
since December 2014. For the period from December 2014 to 
December 2015, each Executive Director will be entitled to purchase 
up to £1,800 worth of shares through the GSP and, if he holds these 
shares for three years, the Company will match the first £600 of this 
investment on a one-for-one basis.  
2015 fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
Following a review by the Board, it was decided to keep the Non-
executive Directors’ base fees at the same level and increase the 
additional fee paid for chairing a Committee or acting as the Senior 
Independent Director to £7,500 with effect from 22 February 2015. 
In the case of the Chairman, the Committee has reviewed his fees 
and considers it appropriate to increase them to £141,750 with effect 
from 22 February 2015. In both cases, the level of increases took into 
account the factors set out in the policy table on page 37 and the 
benchmarking of the Chairman’ s and Non-executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages against a range of relevant UK listed 
companies comparable to HellermannT yton in size and complexity. 
External appointments 
Tim Jones is a Non-executive Director of Corporate Legal Solutions 
Limited. He did not receive any fees in respect of this directorship 
in 2014. 
Payments for loss of office 
There were no payments for loss of office during the year. 
Payments to past Directors 
No payments were made to past Directors during the year. 
Dilution 
The rules of each share plan specify a dilution limit (principally an 
aggregate limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company in 
any ten-year period) for all share plans together and the Committee 
reviews the position before any proposed grant to ensure that this limit 
is not breached. In addition, in any ten-year period not more than 5% 
of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time may be 
issued or transferred from treasury pursuant to the L TIP and any other 
plan which is operated on a discretionary basis. 
Shares committed to be issued as at 31 December 2014: 
Number 
of shares
% of  
issued 
share 
capital 
Dilution 
limit – 
number 
of shares
% of 
dilution 
limit used
LTIP awards 5,878,383 2.73% 10,769,905 54.58%
LTIP awards plus GSP 
matching shares 6,238,307 2.90% 21,539,811 28.96%
 
On behalf of the Board. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
27 February 2015 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 47
Other 
information
Directors’ report  
 
Introduction
This Directors’ report, which has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, also includes disclosures 
made in the following sections: 
 details of the Group’ s principal activities, likely future developments, 
greenhouse gas emissions, research and development activities and 
employee information, as set out in the Strategic report (pages 4 
to 21); 
 the Corporate governance report (pages 24 to 27); 
 details of the Company’ s risk management objectives and policies 
and the Company’ s exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk, as set out in the Strategic report (page 19) the Audit Committee 
report (pages 29 to 32) and Note 3 to the financial statements. 
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors’ report is given in 
this section.  
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, details of the Company’ s long-term 
incentive schemes are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report 
starting on page 33. All other information required to be disclosed by 
LR 9.8.4 R is not applicable for the period under review. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’ s articles of association enable the Board to authorise 
conflicts of interest matters pursuant to Section 175 of the Companies 
Act 2006. No conflicts of interest arose during the year. 
Final dividend
The Company has proposed that a final dividend of 5.63 cents per 
share will be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Share capital
The Company has the following single class of shares in issue: 
Class of share  Number of shares in issue
Ordinary shares  
of €0.01 each 215,398,109
The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company 
available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up 
of the Company . The ordinary shares carry the right to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the Company; each share holds the 
right to one vote. The ordinary shares were admitted to trading on 
the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013.  
 
Authority to allot shares and disapplication of 
pre-emption rights 
The Directors were granted authority at the 2014 AGM to allot 
relevant securities up to maximum aggregate nominal amount of 
€717,922, save in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of 
rights issue, in which case the authority permitted the allotment of 
ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 
€1,436,059. This authority is renewable annually and the Directors 
will seek to renew it again at the 2015 AGM.  
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors’ 
authority to waive the statutory pre-emption rights applicable to the 
allotment of equity securities for cash for a period ending at the close 
of the 2016 AGM. This resolution proposes to confer on the Board the 
authority to issue ordinary shares for cash either (i) by way of a rights 
issue or other pre-emptive issue or (ii) other than by way of a pre-
emptive issue, in the latter case limited to a total of 5% of the issued 
share capital of the Company . The Board does not intend to issue 
more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash 
on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without 
prior consultation with the shareholders and the Investment 
Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National 
Association of Pension Funds. 
 
Authority to purchase own shares 
At the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to 
purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares in the market, as permitted 
under the Company’ s articles of association. That authority will apply 
until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and a special resolution will be 
proposed to renew this authority at the 2015 AGM. As before, this 
authority will be limited to 21,539,811 ordinary shares and will set the 
minimum and maximum prices that will be paid.  
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its 
own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of cancelling them 
as previously required. Such shares may be resold for cash or used to 
satisfy share options and share awards under the Company’ s share 
incentive schemes but all rights attaching to them, including voting 
rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended whilst they 
are held in treasury .  
At the year end, the Company had purchased 50,294 of its own 
shares in accordance with its Global Share Plan, which are held in 
treasury by the Company’ s employees’ share trust. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ report continued 
 
Share transfer restrictions
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of shares or on voting rights. 
Provisions on change of control 
The Group’ s revolving credit facility provides that, on any change of 
control of the Company, any lender under the agreement is entitled to 
(i) not fund a new utilisation of the facility, and (ii) with ten days’ notice 
cancel the facility commitment and receive repayment of amounts 
owing to such lender . 
Political donations
The Company did not make any political donations during 2014 
Major shareholdings 
As at 27 February 2015, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority , of the following major shareholdings in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company:  
Name 
Number  
of shares  
held 
Percentage of 
issued capital 
(%)
Standard Life Investments  32,288,400 14.99
Mondrian Investment 
Partners Ltd 
12,677,366 5.89
Ruffer LLP 10,959,389 5.09
Artemis Investment Mgt 10,404,453 4.83
Henderson Global Investors 8,187,743 3.80
Danske Bank 6,732,787 3.13
Disclosures were also received from DHC H S.à.r .l and Schroders plc 
during the year notifying the Company that they no longer held a 
notifiable interest. 
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since 
notified to the Company . However , notification of any change is not 
required until the next applicable threshold is crossed. 
  
 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , Chartered Accountants, the Company’ s 
external auditors, have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as 
auditors of the Company . Upon the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as the Company’ s auditors 
and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the 2015 AGM. 
 
Annual general meeting
The notice convening the AGM to be held on 29 April 2015 at 
11.30 a.m. is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders with this 
report. The meeting will be held at Hotel Sofitel, Gatwick Airport, 
Crawley , West Sussex, RH6 0PH. The notice of AGM contains full 
details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders. 
Special business
At the AGM, a special resolution will be proposed that, in accordance 
with the Company’ s articles of association, a general meeting (other 
than an AGM) may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice. 
Hayley Whitehead 
Company Secretary 
27 February 2015 
Registered office
Griffin House 
135 High Street 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 1DQ 
Registered number 
08409650 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 49
Other 
information
 
 
 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and 
the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
report on Directors’ remuneration and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law 
requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year . Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK generally accepted 
accounting practice (UK Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements respectively; and 
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’ s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the report on Directors’ remuneration comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’ s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’ s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:  
 The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and 
 The Strategic report includes a fair review of true development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces. 
Going concern responsibilities and disclosure
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: 
 significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end; 
 the €230 million revolving credit facility arranged during the year, of 
which €30 million is undrawn, which expires on 26 February 2019; 
 a history of cash generation and covenant compliance; and 
 good visibility in near-term forecasts and budget, taking account of 
capital expenditure plans and reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, indicating that the Group expects to be able to 
operate within the level of its banking facilities. 
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
 
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’ s auditors are 
unaware; and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’ s auditors are aware 
of that information. 
By order of the Board. 
Steve Salmon Tim Jones 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
27 February 2015 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of HellermannT yton Group PLC  
 
Report on the Group financial statements 
 
Our opinion  
In our opinion, HellermannT yton Group PLC’ s Group financial 
statements (the “financial statements”): 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’ s affairs as at 
31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
HellermannT yton Group PLC’ s financial statements comprise: 
 the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; 
 the Group income statement and Group statement of 
comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
 the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then 
ended; 
 the Group statement of cash flows for the year then ended; and 
 the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than 
in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union. 
 
 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
   
 
 Overall Group materiality: €3.6 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the loss/gain 
on revaluation of intra-Group loans. 
 Of the Group’ s 37 reporting units, we performed full scope audit procedures on six operations based 
in Germany , the USA, China, Japan, Singapore and the UK. 
 Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further five holding 
and financing reporting units and two trading entities based in South Africa and Brazil. 
 Overall, this accounted for 76% of Group revenue and 70% of Group profit before tax adjusted for 
gain/loss on revaluation of intra-group loans.  
 Carrying amount of inventory and trade receivables. 
 
 
 
  
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 51
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular , we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we 
also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by 
the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.  
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.  
 
Areas of focus How our audit addressed the areas of focus
Carrying amount of inventory and trade receivables 
Refer to page 30 of the Audit Committee Report, and 
pages 74 and 75 of the financial statements. 
Given the nature of the business in the manufacturing 
industry , managing working capital is a key component 
to the success of the business, especially during strong 
growth phases where demands on working capital can 
be significant to facilitate further expansion.  
The following strategic factors have led management 
to need an increased focus on maintaining a strong 
working capital position in the current year: 
 increased reliance on customers in the automotive 
industry , where payment terms are typically longer , 
resulting in an increase in year end trade receivables; and 
 an increase in the number of stock lines due to 
individual customisation of products for specific 
customers, resulting in a higher inherent risk of 
inventory obsolescence.  
Management’ s provisioning process for both inventory and 
receivables has both automated and manual elements.  
Inventory provisions are system-calculated based on 
age, with manual adjustments made as necessary for 
new lines introduced in the year or unusual trading 
patterns on established lines.  
Provision is made in full against all trade receivables aged 
over one year , with specific provisions made where 
management assesses a specific risk of collectability to 
exist, such as customers who have gone into receivership 
or no longer have a trading relationship with the Group. 
We have included these matters as an area of 
focus given the magnitude of the balances and the 
judgemental nature of the provision calculations. As 
a result, significant audit effort was required to be able 
to test whether inventory and trade receivables were 
free from material misstatement. 
We assessed the underlying accuracy of the source information used to 
calculate the inventory provisions and discussed with local management 
items that had been manually adjusted to assess the reasonableness of 
management’ s assessment. We also considered other factors that supported 
the future realisation of the inventory , including obsolete lines and historic 
and forecast usage, in order to assess the appropriateness of the provisions.  
We also re-performed the provision calculations to assess whether they had 
been correctly calculated and reviewed recent sales to assess whether 
inventory was being sold above its carrying value.  
Our testing did not identify any material misstatements in management’ s 
provisions.  
We performed testing on the ageing analysis of trade receivables to assess 
the accuracy of the base data used to determine provisions.  
Where management specifically provided for balances we understood the 
rationale for such provisions to determine the reasonableness of the 
judgement. We also challenged management over significant balances which 
were past their due date but not yet one year overdue to assess whether the 
debts were considered recoverable or whether some provision should be held 
against them. 
We also assessed the total provisions on a territory-by-territory basis to assess 
whether there were significant year-on-year fluctuations and corroborated 
these changes to supporting information. T erritories with provisions 
significantly different to Group overall provision percentages were also 
investigated to corroborate that local factors were understood and 
reasonable given the current local factors. Any significant variances identified 
were supported by reasonable business rationale. 
T esting of post year end cash receipts also provided comfort over the 
collectability of trade receivables.  
Our testing identified no material misstatements and we found the 
judgements made by management were consistent with the Group’ s 
accounting policy and in accordance with IFRS requirements. 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
the Group operates.   
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of HellermannT yton Group PLC continued 
 
The Group is structured geographically across three territories, namely EMEA, Americas and Asia, with a number of functions 
performed centrally in the UK. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Group’ s 
manufacturing units and sales units spread across the geographical segments, together with holding and financing entities and 
centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that was needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us in the UK, as the Group engagement team, or by other PwC LLP network firms operating under our instruction. 
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we also determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit 
work at those reporting units audited by other audit teams to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had 
been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. Conference calls were held with all component 
auditors prior to the commencement of work to ensure significant areas were appropriately addressed. The largest component was 
visited by the Group engagement team, who discussed the work performed with the local component audit team and attended the final 
clearance meeting with the local client. The second largest component was audited directly by the Group engagement team, and we 
also attended other clearances by conference call where significant matters for the Group were anticipated. Follow up communication 
was then completed with components following the submission of their reporting to address any matters and to ensure appropriate 
procedures has been completed.  
Of the Group’ s 37 reporting units, we identified six (based in Germany , the USA, China, Japan, Singapore and the UK and accounting for 
71% of Group revenue and 64% of Group profit before tax adjusted for gain/loss on revaluation of intra-Group loans) which, in our 
view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size. Specific audit procedures on certain balances and 
transactions were performed at a further five holding and financing reporting units across the globe and two trading entities based in 
South Africa and Brazil (70% of Group profit before tax adjusted for gain/loss on revaluation of intra-Group loans and 76% of Group 
revenue was covered by these 13 reporting units). This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the 
evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality . We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality . These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall Group materiality €3.6 million (2013: €3.0 million). 
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the loss/gain on revaluation of intra-Group loans. 
Rationale for benchmark 
applied 
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the loss/gain on revaluation of intra-Group 
loans, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality by eliminating 
the volatility caused by these revaluations which are as a result of closing balance sheet 
exchange rates. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €180,000  
(2013: €150,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit 
we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However , because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’ s ability 
to continue as a going concern. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 53
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 information in the Annual Report is:  
 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or  
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or  
 otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .
 the statement given by the Directors on page 49, in accordance 
with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the 
Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to 
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’ s performance, 
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .
 the section of the Annual Report on page 30, as required by 
provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .  
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility .  
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Company’ s compliance 
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of HellermannT yton Group PLC continued 
 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an 
assessment of:  
 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed;  
 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
 the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.  
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of HellermannT yton Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 
2014 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Rosemary Shapland (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Gatwick 
27 February 2015 
  
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 55
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
Group income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 
By function of expense Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Revenue 4 596,866 537,989
Cost of sales 18 (343,159) (313,207)
Gross profit  253,707 224,782
   
Selling and distribution costs 18 (133,184) (119,422)
Administrative expenses 18 (37,545) (42,718)
Gain on asset held for sale 13  – 902
Operating profit 4 82,978 63,544
   
Finance income 20 847 1,453
Finance costs 20 (11,619) (29,887)
Finance costs – net 20 (10,772) (28,434)
Profit before tax  72,206 35,110
   
Tax expense 21 (21,251) (12,690)
Profit for the year   50,955 22,420
   
Earnings per share   cents cents
Basic 5 23.66 10.60
Diluted 5 22.99 10.41
Group statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit for the year  50,955 22,420
Other comprehensive income/(expense):   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss   
Actuarial (loss)/gain on post-employment benefit obligations 27 (301) 1,434
Deferred tax on actuarial loss/gain 22 87 (413)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   
Currency translation differences  11,551 (32,944)
T otal other comprehensive income/(expense)  11,337 (31,923)
T otal comprehensive income/(expense) for the year  62,292 (9,503)
The notes on pages 59 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Group balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2014 
 
 
 
Note 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 8 242,662 239,814
Property , plant and equipment 7 191,304 159,044
Deferred tax assets 22 5,780 5,792
Retirement benefit surplus 27(b) 1,197 1,103
Other receivables 10 3,245 5,191
  444,188 410,944
Current assets   
Inventories 11 101,658 83,243
Trade and other receivables 10 140,960 118,225
Derivative financial instruments 12 85 1,012
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 14 57,403 80,039
  300,106 282,519
   
T otal assets  744,294 693,463
   
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company    
Ordinary shares 15 2,154 2,154
Capital redemption reserve 15 100 100
Treasury shares 15 (169) –
Translation reserve 15 (699) (12,250)
Other reserves 15 (35,772) (35,772)
Retained earnings  424,848 387,072
T otal equity  390,462 341,304
   
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 16 793 686
Borrowings 17 214,742 229,587
Deferred tax liabilities 22 24,548 23,632
Retirement benefit obligations 27(a) 2,721 2,542
  242,804 256,447
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 16 102,338 88,164
Current tax liabilities  5,295 5,029
Borrowings 17 1,074 979
Derivative financial instruments 12 921 137
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 25 1,400 1,403
  111,028 95,712
T otal liabilities  353,832 352,159
T otal equity and liabilities  744,294 693,463
The notes on pages 59 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: 
David Newlands        Tim Jones 
Chairman           Chief Financial Officer 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56 57
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
Group statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
  
 Note
Ordinary 
shares  
€’000 
Share 
premium 
€’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
Treasury 
shares 
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
€’000
Translation 
reserve  
€’000 
Other  
reserves  
€’000 
Retained 
earnings 
€’000
Total
€’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 10,000 4,700 – – – 20,694 322,652 (39,573) 318,473
Comprehensive income    
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 22,420 22,420
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)    
Actuarial gain on 
post-employment 
benefit obligations 27 – – – – – – – 1,434 1,434
Deferred tax on actuarial gain  – – – – – – – (413) (413)
Currency translation 
differences  – – – – –(32,944) – –(32,944)
T otal comprehensive 
income/(loss) – – – – – (32,944) – 23,441 (9,503)
Change in Group structure  15 (8,000) 366,424 100 – – – (358,424) – 100
Redemption of preference 
shares 15 – – (100) – 100 – – (100) (100)
Issue of new shares on IPO 15 153 33,128 – – – – – – 33,281
Capital reduction 15 – (404,252) – – – – – 404,252 –
Issue of shares for free share 
scheme 15 1 – – – – – – – 1
Equity settled share- 
based payments 26 – – – – – – – 1,645 1,645
Tax credit relating to equity 
settled share- 
based payments – – – – – – – 242 242
Dividend payments 6 – – – – – – – (2,835) (2,835)
Balance at 1 January 2014 2,154 – – – 100 (12,250) (35,772) 387,072 341,304
Comprehensive income    
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 50,955 50,955
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)    
Actuarial loss on 
post-employment 
benefit obligations 27 – – – – – – – (301) (301)
Deferred tax on actuarial loss  – – – – – – 87 87
Currency translation 
differences  – – – – – 11,551 – – 11,551
T otal comprehensive 
income – – – – – 11,551 – 50,741 62,292
Equity settled share- 
based payments 26 – – – (169) – – – 3,481 3,312
Tax credit relating to equity 
settled share- 
based payments – – – – – – – 716 716
Dividend payments 6 – – – – – – – (17,162) (17,162)
Balance at 31 December 2014 2,154 – – (169) 100 (699) (35,772) 424,848 390,462
The notes on pages 59 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Group statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 
 
Note 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations 24 96,806 73,122
Interest paid  (8,446) (13,318)
Tax paid  (21,819) (15,904)
Net cash generated from operating activities  66,541 43,900
   
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (PPE) and business software 7,8 (57,144) (40,746)
Proceeds from sale of asset held for sale 13 – 2,885
Proceeds from sale of PPE 24 5,224 744
Interest received  841 441
Net cash used in investing activities  (51,079) (36,676)
   
Cash flows from financing activities   
Net proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 15 – 29,479
Dividends paid 6 (17,162) (2,835)
Proceeds from borrowings  204,105 240
Payment of fees relating to new borrowings  (4,019) –
Repayment of senior secured notes   (223,413) –
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities  (40,489) 26,884
   
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  (25,027) 34,108
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year  80,039 50,138
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  2,391 (4,207)
   
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 14 57,403 80,039
The notes on pages 59 to 90 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 59
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 
1 General information 
HellermannT yton Group PLC (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(together “the Group”) is a leading global manufacturer and 
distributor of high-performance and innovative cable management 
solutions for fastening, identifying, insulating, protecting, 
organising, routing and connecting components in its Electrical, 
Automotive and Datacom & Other market segments.  
The Group has direct sales operations in 35 countries worldwide, 
supported by strategically positioned distribution, design and 
manufacturing facilities, with 12 manufacturing facilities located in 
ten countries. 
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the UK and its 
registered office is Griffin House, 135 High Street, Crawley , West 
Sussex RH10 1DQ. 
These Group consolidated financial statements, for the year ended 
31 December 2014, were authorised for issue by the Board on 
27 February 2015. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
The Group’ s principal accounting policies adopted in the 
preparation of these financial statements are set out below.  
Basis of preparation 
The Company was incorporated on 19 February 2013. T o facilitate 
the admission to the market, the entire issued share capital of 
HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. was acquired by the Company . Prior 
to this restructuring, the business was conducted solely through 
HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. and its subsidiaries. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared as a 
continuation of the HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. business with 
an adjustment to reflect the share capital of HellermannT yton 
Group PLC. 
This consolidated financial information has been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union and the International Financial 
Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee’ s (IFRS IC) 
interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial 
information has been prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) that have been measured at fair 
value through profit or loss.  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’ s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity , or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements, are disclosed on page 63 within critical 
accounting estimates and assumptions. 
Going concern 
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: 
 significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end; 
 the €230 million revolving credit facility arranged during the 
year , of which €30 million is undrawn, which expires on 26 
February 2019; 
 a history of cash generation and covenant compliance; and 
 good visibility in near-term forecasts and budgets, taking 
account of capital expenditure plans and reasonable possible 
changes in trading performance, indicates that we expect to be 
able to operate within the level of our banking facilities. 
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
The following new standards and amendments to standards have 
been adopted by the Group for the first time in the current 
accounting period, and do not have a material impact on the 
results or net assets of the Group: 
 IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements” 
 IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements” 
 IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities” 
 Amendments to IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation” 
 Amendments to IAS 36, “Impairment of assets”  
 Amendments to IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement” 
 IFRIC 21, “Levies” 
(b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted 
The following new standards are effective for annual periods 
beginning after 1 January 2014, and have not been applied in 
preparing these consolidated financial statements. Neither of these 
is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group.  
 IFRS 9, “Financial instruments” 
 IFRS 15, “Revenue from contracts with customers” 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 
31 December 2014. The financial statements of subsidiaries 
are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent 
Company , using consistent accounting policies. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries – representing 
the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired – is capitalised as an 
intangible asset. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and 
carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related 
cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at 
business segment level or statutory company level as the case may 
be. Where the recoverable amount, being the higher of value in 
use and fair value less cost to sell, of the cash-generating unit is 
less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment 
loss is recognised in the income statement in the period in which 
the impairment is recognised and is not subsequently reversed.  
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are non-monetary assets that have been 
identified on acquisition. These assets are amortised over their 
useful economic lives on a straight-line basis with associated useful 
economic lives as follows: 
 customer relationships (15 years) 
 brands and trademarks (20 years) 
 patents (5 years) 
 HellermannT yton product database and catalogue (5 years) 
 Business software (4 years) 
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. The carrying value of 
intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the 
amount by which the asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to selling and distribution 
costs, and administrative expenses in the income statement.  
Business software includes purchased software and certain 
internally-generated employee costs associated with the 
development and customisation of the software.  
Product development costs, including technical expertise to design 
and manufacture the Group’ s products, are expensed as incurred.  
Property , plant and equipment depreciation 
Property , plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset 
and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use.  
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is 
provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all 
other assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis 
at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their 
location. These are reassessed on an annual basis and adjusted if 
appropriate. Useful asset lives are as follows: 
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Properties held under finance 
leases 
Over the shorter of the useful life 
and the lease period 
Plant and machinery  5 to 10 years 
Furniture, fittings and equipment: 
– Building installations 20 years or lease period if less 
– Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years 
– Motor vehicles 5 years 
The carrying values of property , plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the 
asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Any gain or loss on the disposal of assets is taken directly to the 
income statement. 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an 
indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’ s recoverable 
amount. An asset’ s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’ s 
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for 
an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups 
of assets.  
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’ s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement of 
those expense categories consistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. 
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there 
is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may 
no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’ s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable 
amount. The increased amount cannot exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed in 
future periods. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 61
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
Such a reversal is recognised in the income statement. After such a 
reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to 
allocate the asset’ s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, 
on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. 
Financial assets 
 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified 
as non-current assets. The Group’ s loans and receivables are 
comprised of “trade and other receivables“ and “cash and cash 
equivalents” in the balance sheet. 
Leases 
Finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the assets concerned, are recognised in the 
balance sheet at the lower of fair value of the leased asset and net 
present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of 
the lease. The corresponding liabilities are recorded as long-term or 
current liabilities depending on when they are due. The interest 
elements of the rental obligations are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the lease as a finance cost. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance cost and the 
reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability . Capitalised leased 
assets are depreciated over their useful life as above, or over the 
length of the lease whichever is shorter . 
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. Operating lease 
rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net 
realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to 
its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing 
cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads 
based on a normal level of activity and excluding borrowing costs. 
Net realisable value represents selling price less further costs to be 
incurred to completion and on sale. Provisions are made for slow 
moving, obsolete or defective inventory . 
T rade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is 
established on an individual basis when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor , probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or 
delinquency in payments (more than one year past invoice date) 
are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’ s
carrying amount and the estimated future cash flows. The carrying 
amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income 
statement within “selling and distribution costs”. When a trade 
and other receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
allowance account for trade and other receivables. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided against are 
credited against “selling and distribution costs” in the income 
statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at 
bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash 
and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
T rade payables 
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that 
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if 
payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented 
as non-current liabilities. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event which it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle by an outflow of 
resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the 
obligation can be made. Provisions are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the 
amount of the provision is the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation. 
Foreign currencies 
The Company has chosen to present the consolidated financial 
statements in Euros. The functional currency of the Company is 
the Euro. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are measured at historical cost using the exchange rate at the date 
of the initial transactions. Such transaction differences are 
recognised in the income statement. 
The functional currencies of the Group’ s principal operations are 
the Euro, pound Sterling, Japanese Y en and US Dollar. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’ s foreign 
operations, including goodwill arising on the acquisition of such 
foreign operations, are translated into the Group’ s presentation 
currency at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
The results of foreign operations are translated into Euro using 
average rates. 
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net 
assets of foreign investments and exchange adjustments arising from 
the translation of the results of foreign operations are classified as 
other comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’ s 
translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as part 
of the gain or loss on disposal should an operation be disposed of. 
Certain intra-Group trading loans and loans that provide finance to 
subsidiary companies are intended to be settled, and as such the 
balances outstanding at the year end are treated as unsettled 
monetary items. The translation differences arising on these items 
are recognised in profit or loss. 
The significant translation rates used in the reported results are 
as follows: 
Rates to Euro 2013 average 2014 average 2014 closing
GBP 0.85 0.81 0.78
USD 1.33 1.33 1.21
JPY 129.80 140.34 145.08
Share capital 
Ordinary shares and preference shares are classified as equity and 
are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.  
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’ s balance 
sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
Loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at the fair value of the 
consideration received, net of issue costs. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs 
and any discount or premium on settlement. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. 
The Group’ s policy is not to undertake any trading activity in 
financial instruments. Such derivative financial instruments are 
stated at fair value. 
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative.  
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange 
exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign 
currencies. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for 
contracts with similar maturity profiles. Interest rate swaps are used 
to hedge the Group’ s exposure to movements in interest rates. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to 
market rates for similar instruments. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any 
gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the 
income statement. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is based on the fair value goods sold. It excludes sales 
between Group companies, VAT and similar sales-based taxes. 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits 
will flow to the Group, the revenue can be reliably measured and 
when the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised 
when collectibility is probable. This is determined to be when 
delivery has occurred, title of the goods has passed to the 
purchaser and where the price is fixed or determinable and reflects 
the commercial substance of the transaction. 
Government grants 
Grants from government are recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and 
the Group will comply with all attached conditions.  
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised 
in the income statement over the period necessary to match them 
with the costs that they are intended to compensate.  
Employee benefits 
When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an 
accounting period, short-term benefits expected to be paid in 
exchange for those services are recognised in the same 
accounting period. 
Pension obligations 
Group companies operate various pension schemes, and 
the Group has both defined contribution and defined 
benefit schemes.  
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to 
publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no 
further payment obligations once the contributions have been 
paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised 
as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available.  
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined 
contribution plan. T ypically, defined benefit plans define an 
amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, 
years of service and compensation. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 63
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of a defined 
benefit pension plan is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of 
plan assets. A surplus is recognised if the fair value of plan assets 
exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, to the 
extent recoverable by way of refunds from the plan or reductions 
in future contributions to the plan. The defined benefit obligation 
is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that 
are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the 
related pensions liability . 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income 
statement, unless the changes in the pension plan are conditional 
on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of 
time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
T axation 
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that apply to the current year. 
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the 
following exceptions: 
 where the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; 
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future; or 
 deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or 
tax losses can be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted 
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is recognised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Tax is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income 
if it relates to items that are credited or charged to other 
comprehensive income, and is recognised in equity if it relates 
to items that are recognised directly in equity . Otherwise tax is 
recognised in the income statement. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates two equity settled share-based 
compensation plans. Grants of shares to employees are measured 
at fair value at the grant date and expensed over the relevant 
vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will 
ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based 
vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original 
estimates, if any , is recognised in the income statement such that 
the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimates, with a 
corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
Dividends 
Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end 
are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by the shareholders at the AGM. Interim dividends are 
recognised in the period in which they are paid. 
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to 
make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported. 
Such estimates and assumptions are based on management’ s best 
knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events. 
Actual results may differ , possibly significantly , from those 
estimates. The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements are discussed below. 
(a) Recoverability of debtors and inventory 
Where the recoverability of debtors or inventory is deemed to be in 
doubt, the Group makes appropriate provisions against the balance. 
These provisions are applied consistently across all operating entities, 
based on standard Group-wide accounting procedures, and have 
been applied on the same basis as in prior years. If a further 1% of 
inventory was impaired this would result in a reduction in a post-tax 
profit of €0.8million (2013: €0.6million). 
(b) Goodwill impairment 
The Group tests annually by cash-generating unit whether 
goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when 
events or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value 
may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of cash-
generating units have been determined based on value in use 
calculations, which require the use of estimates and assumptions 
in respect of future cash flows and discount rates. 
(c) Income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax 
jurisdictions and judgement is applied in determining the 
worldwide provision for income taxes. There are many transactions 
for which the final tax determinability is uncertain. For example, 
liabilities are recognised for anticipated tax audit issues based on 
whether additional taxes are likely to be due based on the facts 
and circumstances known at the time the financial statements are 
prepared. Where the final outcome differs from the amount 
previously recorded, the difference will be recorded in the future 
period in which the determination is made. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
(d) Deferred taxes 
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based 
on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management. 
A change to these forecasts and estimates could result in a 
different recognition outcome. 
3 Financial risk management 
Financial risk factors 
The Group’ s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market 
risk (including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit 
risk and liquidity risk. The Group’ s overall risk management 
programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’ s 
financial performance. 
Risk management is carried out under policies approved by the 
Board. The Board provides the written principles for overall 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific 
areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk 
and liquidity risk. 
(a) Market risk 
(i) Foreign exchange risk 
At 31 December 2014, if the Euro had strengthened by 10% 
against the Japanese Y en, with all other variables held constant, 
post-tax profit for the year would have been €0.7 million (2013: 
€0.6 million) lower , mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses 
on translation of Y en-denominated receivables.  
Retranslation of certain intra-Group loan balances that are treated 
as monetary items can give rise to significant exchange gains and 
losses recognised in profit or loss. For 2014 this effect has been 
significantly reduced following the debt refinancing earlier in the 
year (see Note 17) as a result of which intra-Group loans were 
reduced and replaced by bank loans to subsidiaries in their 
respective functional currencies, resulting in a gain for the year 
of €934,000 (2013: loss of €7,542,000). There is no cash impact 
in the year from these retranslations. 
(ii) Interest rate risk 
At 31 December 2014, if interest rates on Euro and foreign 
currency denominated borrowings at that date had been 0.5% 
higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit 
for the year would have been €1.0 million (2013: €1.1 million) 
lower/higher , mainly as a result of higher/lower interest expense 
on floating rate borrowings. 
(b) Credit risk 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from 
cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, 
as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding 
receivables and committed transactions. For banks and financial 
institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum 
rating of “BBB” are accepted.  
For customers that are independently rated, these ratings are used. 
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, credit control 
managers within the Group assess the credit quality of the 
customer , taking into account its financial position, past experience 
and other factors. Individual credit limits are set based on internal 
or external ratings in accordance with limits set by the Board. 
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. 
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period, 
and management does not expect any material losses from  
non-performance by customers. 
The value of financial instruments held represents the maximum 
exposure that the Group has to them. No collateral is held for this 
type of credit risk. See Note 9 for further disclosure on financial 
instruments. 
(c) Liquidity risk 
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the 
Group. The Group finance function monitors rolling forecasts of 
the Group’ s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to 
meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on 
its undrawn committed borrowing facilities (see Note 17) at all 
times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or 
covenants (where applicable) on any of its borrowing facilities. 
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Group’ s debt 
financing plans, covenant compliance, compliance with internal 
balance sheet ratio targets and, if applicable, external regulatory or 
legal requirements – for example, currency restrictions. All 
applicable covenants were met during the year. 
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the 
amount required for working capital management is invested in 
interest-bearing current accounts and time deposits, choosing 
instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to 
provide sufficient headroom as determined by the above-
mentioned forecasts. At the reporting date, the Group held money 
time deposits of €320,000 (2013: €279,000). It held other liquid 
assets of €5,906,000 (2013: €6,263,000) that are expected to 
readily generate cash inflows for managing liquidity risk. These are 
interest-earning bank deposits with notice periods of less than 30 
days, and are therefore included within cash at bank and on hand. 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 65
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
The table below analyses the Group’ s financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the undiscounted contractual 
cash flows. 
At 31 December 2014 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between 
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Borrowings – – 200,000 –
Other loans 73 444 2,085 4,758
Derivative financial instruments 921 – – –
Trade and other payables 94,984 793 – –
Finance lease obligations 1,232 1,232 3,014 –
 
At 31 December 2013 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between 
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Borrowings – – 220,000 –
Other loans 165 165 2,687 –
Derivative financial instruments 137 – – –
Trade and other payables 81,716 686 – –
Finance lease obligations 1,250 1,329 3,986 –
The table below analyses the Group’ s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are 
the undiscounted contractual cash flows. 
At 31 December 2014 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between 
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges   
Outflow 16,873 – – –
Inflow – – – –
 
At 31 December 2013 
Less than 
1 year
€’000
Between  
1 and 2 years 
€’000 
Between 
2 and 5 years 
€’000 
Over 
5 years
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges   
Outflow 15,641 – – –
Inflow – – – –
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
3 Financial risk management continued 
Fair value estimation 
The following table presents the Group’ s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014. 
 2014 2013 
 Note
Assets 
€’000
Liabilities  
€’000 
Assets  
€’000 
Liabilities 
€’000
Interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange 
contracts 12 85 921 1,012 137
All financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value have been grouped into Level 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy, as defined below, based on the degree to which fair value is observable. 
Categorisation within the fair value hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement of the relevant asset or liability as follows: 
Level 1 – fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 
Level 2 – fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, that are observable for 
the asset or liability , either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
Level 3 – fair value measurements are those derived from valuation inputs that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data.  
The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and 
the contract price, and the fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by comparison between forecast interest rates and the contract 
rate of interest, as provided by third party bank confirmations. These contracts are therefore categorised as Level 2. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’ s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’ s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group’ s current dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio of 30–40% 
of underlying net profit. 
In 2014 the Group refinanced its borrowings to take advantage of lower finance costs and reduce total borrowings, thereby lowering 
the overall cost of capital.  
Consistent with others in the industry , the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt 
divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including “current and non-current borrowings” as shown in the 
consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. T otal capital is calculated as “equity” as shown in the consolidated balance 
sheet plus net debt. 
During 2014, the Group’ s strategy was to lower the overall gearing ratio by refinancing the debt structure and reducing finance costs. 
The gearing ratios at 31 December 2014 and 2013 were as follows: 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Total borrowings  17 215,816 230,566
Less: cash and cash equivalents  14 (57,403) (80,039)
Net debt  158,413 150,527
Total equity  390,462 341,304
T otal capital  548,875 491,831
Gearing ratio  29% 31%
The decrease in the gearing ratio during 2014 resulted primarily from improved trading results and lower interest costs as a result of the 
debt refinancing.  
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 67
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
4 Segmental information 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. 
The chief operating decision maker , who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Chief Executive who makes strategic decisions. 
Sales between segments are carried out on an arm’ s length basis and it is considered that sale of goods is the only material revenue 
stream for consideration.  
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Total revenue 435,183 160,094 163,956 759,233
Intra-segment revenue (89,293) (3,648) (9,469) (102,410)
Total segment revenue 345,890 156,446 154,487 656,823
Inter-segment revenue (32,680) (8,194) (19,083) (59,957)
Revenue from external customers 313,210 148,252 135,404 596,866
Underlying operating profit/segment result 32,508 18,561 32,595 83,664
A reconciliation of the underlying operating profit to the operating profit as per the income statement is provided below.  
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Operating profit as per the income statement  82,978 63,544
Transaction costs  1,234 2,327
Non-cash (gain)/loss on revaluation of intra-group loans  (934) 7,542
Gain on disposal of asset  (1,193) (902)
One-off costs 23 1,579 3,659
Underlying operating profit  83,664 76,170
 
Finance costs have not been allocated to segments as operating performance is assessed by the chief operating decision maker at 
an operating profit level. Some of these finance costs are incurred centrally and to allocate them to segments would not assist in 
performance assessment. Central costs of €5,810,000 (2013: € 4,269,000) have not been allocated and are included within the EMEA 
segment, as this is where the costs are geographically incurred. 
Other segment items included in the income statement are as follows: 
Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Depreciation 7 12,422 6,676 5,076 24,174
Amortisation  8 5,238 647 2,026 7,911
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are as follows: 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Total revenue 393,907 147,855 144,378 686,140
Intra-segment revenue (80,633) (4,247) (7,554) (92,434)
Total segment revenue 313,274 143,608 136,824 593,706
Inter-segment revenue (29,866) (7,484) (18,367) (55,717)
Revenue from external customers 283,408 136,124 118,457 537,989
Underlying operating profit/segment result 32,233 16,994 26,943 76,170
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
4 Segmental information continued 
Other segment items included in the income statement are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Depreciation  7 11,498 5,706 4,681 21,885
Amortisation  8 4,405 637 1,748 6,790
Segment assets consist primarily of property , plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, trade and other receivables and cash 
and cash equivalents. Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, taxation and borrowings. Borrowings are included, even though 
finance costs are not allocated to segments, as borrowings are held directly by the respective segments. 
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property , plant and equipment (Note 7).  
The Group is domiciled in the UK. Its revenue from external customers in the UK is €39,473,000 (2013: €36,630,000), and the total 
of revenue from external customers from other countries is €557,393,000 (2013: €501,359,000). 
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are no employment benefit assets and 
rights arising under insurance contracts) located in the UK is €52,638,000 (2013: €42,093,000), and the total of such non-current assets 
located in other countries is €385,770,000 (2013: €366,962,000). 
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2014 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Total assets 417,365 132,510 194,419 744,294
Total liabilities 223,161 77,238 53,433 353,832
Capital expenditure  7 26,542 20,425 10,177 57,144
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: 
 Note
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Total assets 412,291 102,741 178,431 693,463
Total liabilities 299,016 22,137 31,006 352,159
Capital expenditure  7 21,085 12,116 7,545 40,746
5 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit for the year 50,955 22,420
Weighted average number of shares in issue – basic 215,396,442 211,481,056
Dilutive potential of employee share incentives 6,238,307 3,868,497
Weighted average number of shares in issue – diluted 221,634,749 215,349,553
Earnings per share  cents cents
Basic 23.66 10.60
Diluted 22.99 10.41
The weighted average number of shares for the year ended 31 December 2013 is based on the share capital of the Company 
immediately prior to the primary share offer made on admission to the market. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 69
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
The Group is disclosing underlying EPS in order to enable more consistent period-on-period comparisons of its performance, as follows: 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit for the year  50,955 22,420
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (excludes business software amortisation)  6,790 6,790
Transaction costs  1,234 15,314
Non-cash (gain)/loss on revaluation of intra-group loans  (934) 7,542
Gain on disposal of asset  (1,193) (902)
One-off costs 23 1,579 3,659
Tax effect on the above items  (2,264) (6,582)
Underlying profit for the year  56,167 48,241
Underlying earnings per share   cents cents
Basic  26.08 22.81
Diluted  25.34 22.40
6 Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the Parent Company in the year 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 5.23 cents per share (2013: nil)  11,312 –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 2.82 cents per share (2013: 1.32 cents)  5,850 2,835
 17,162 2,835
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 5.63 cents per share (2013: 5.23 cents), amounting to 
€12,131,000 (2013: €11,312,000), is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these 
financial statements. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
7 Property, plant and equipment  
 Note
Land and
buildings
€’000
Vehicles and 
machinery 
€’000 
Furniture, 
fittings and 
equipment 
€’000 
Total
€’000
At 1 January 2013   
Cost 63,281 116,339 35,329 214,949
Accumulated depreciation (6,050) (40,225) (19,504) (65,779)
Net book amount 57,231 76,114 15,825 149,170
Y ear ended 31 December 2013   
Opening net book amount 57,231 76,114 15,825 149,170
Exchange differences (3,053) (5,044) (555) (8,652)
Additions 4,348 29,873 6,525 40,746
Disposals  24 (12) (295) (28) (335)
Depreciation charge  18 (1,492) (15,950) (4,443) (21,885)
Reclassification (5,981) (320) 6,301 –
Closing net book amount 51,041 84,378 23,625 159,044
At 31 December 2013   
Cost 58,566 132,082 46,157 236,805
Accumulated depreciation (7,525) (47,704) (22,532) (77,761)
Net book amount 51,041 84,378 23,625 159,044
Y ear ended 31 December 2014   
Opening net book amount 51,041 84,378 23,625 159,044
Exchange differences 2,159 6,886 933 9,978
Additions 2,992 48,588 1,026 52,606
Disposals  24 (3,350) (232) (18) (3,600)
Depreciation charge  18 (1,514) (18,539) (4,121) (24,174)
Reclassification 414 (5,061) 2,097 (2,550)
Closing net book amount 51,742 116,020 23,542 191,304
At 31 December 2014   
Cost 59,585 175,391 32,646 267,622
Accumulated depreciation (7,843) (59,371) (9,104) (76,318)
Net book amount 51,742 116,020 23,542 191,304
Depreciation expense of €20,408,000 (2013: €17,458,000) has been charged in cost of goods sold, €3,076,000 (2013: €2,972,000) in 
selling and distribution costs and €690,000 (2013: €1,455,000) in administrative expenses. 
Land and buildings includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Net book value 12,157 12,384
The Group leases vehicles and machinery and furniture, fittings and equipment under non-cancellable finance lease agreements. 
The lease terms are between three and ten years, and ownership of the assets lies within the Group. The net book amount of these 
assets held under finance lease is €271,000 (2013: €260,000).  
Borrowings are secured against the property , plant and equipment of the Group (see Note 17). 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 71
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
8 Intangible assets 
 Note
Goodwill
€’000
Brands and 
trademarks
€’000
Business 
software 
€’000 
Others 
€’000 
Total
€’000
At 1 January 2013   
Cost 198,134 48,143 – 77,613 323,890
Accumulated amortisation  – (16,130) – (37,924) (54,054)
Net book amount 198,134 32,013 – 39,689 269,836
Y ear ended 31 December 2013   
Opening net book amount 198,134 32,013 – 39,689 269,836
Exchange differences (17,223) (2,295) – (3,714) (23,232)
Amortisation charge  18 – (2,346) – (4,444) (6,790)
Closing net book amount 180,911 27,372 – 31,531 239,814
At 31 December 2013   
Cost 180,911 45,848 – 73,899 300,658
Accumulated amortisation  – (18,476) – (42,368) (60,844)
Net book amount 180,911 27,372 – 31,531 239,814
Y ear ended 31 December 2014   
Opening net book amount 180,911 27,372 – 31,531 239,814
Reclassification – – 2,550 – 2,550
Exchange differences 2,278 894 101 398 3,671
Additions – – 4,538 – 4,538
Amortisation charge  18 – (2,346) (1,121) (4,444) (7,911)
Closing net book amount 183,189 25,920 6,068 27,485 242,662
At 31 December 2014   
Cost 183,189 46,742 24,554 74,297 328,782
Accumulated amortisation  – (20,822) (18,486) (46,812) (86,120)
Net book amount 183,189 25,920 6,068 27,485 242,662
Other intangible assets are comprised of acquired customer relationships, patents, the HellermannT yton product database and the 
HellermannT yton catalogue. 
Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired. 
Impairment test for goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’ s cash-generating units (CGUs), identified according to the country of operation and 
business segment. 
A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation at 31 December 2014 is presented below: 
 
EMEA
€’000
Americas 
€’000 
Asian 
€’000 
Group
€’000
Goodwill 117,760 5,557 59,872 183,189
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections 
based on financial budgets and plans covering a five-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the 
estimated growth rates stated in the following table. The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
business segment in which the CGU operates. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
8 Intangible assets continued 
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are as follows: 
 
EMEA
North 
America
South  
America Asian HT Data
Gross margin
1
 42.5% 38.6% 37.9% 40.3% 31.6%
Growth rate
2
 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Discount rate
3
 10.5% 13.2% 20.2% 12.2% 11.2%
1.  Budgeted gross margin. 
2.  Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period. 
3.  Pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections. 
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment. 
Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of market developments. 
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments. Based on the assessment there 
is no indication of impairment, and a reasonably possible change in the assumptions applied would not result in any impairment. 
9 Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: 
 Note
Loans and 
receivables 
€’000 
Assets at fair 
value through 
profit or loss 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Assets as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2014   
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments  10 135,685 – 135,685
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts  14 57,403 – 57,403
Derivative financial instruments  12 – 85 85
T otal as at 31 December 2014 193,088 85 193,173
 
Note
Liabilities at 
fair value 
through profit 
or loss 
€’000 
Other  
financial  
liabilities  
€’000 
Total
€’000
Liabilities as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2014   
Borrowings  17 – 215,816 215,816
Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities  16 – 95,777 95,777
Derivative financial instruments  12 921 – 921
T otal as at 31 December 2014 921 311,593 312,514
 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 73
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
 Note
Loans and 
receivables 
€’000 
Assets at fair 
value through 
profit or loss 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Assets as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2013   
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments  10 116,758 – 116,758
Cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts  14 80,039 – 80,039
Derivative financial instruments  12 – 1,012 1,012
T otal as at 31 December 2013 196,797 1,012 197,809
 
 Note
Liabilities at fair 
value through  
profit or loss 
€’000 
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
€’000 
Total
€’000
Liabilities as per balance sheet as at 31 December 2013   
Borrowings  17 – 230,566 230,566
Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities  16 – 82,402 82,402
Derivative financial instruments  12 137 – 137
T otal as at 31 December 2013 137 312,968 313,105
The fair value is considered to be equal to the carrying value for financial assets and liabilities. 
Credit quality of financial assets 
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings (if 
available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates. The Group’ s policy is to deposit at least 90% of its cash at bank 
and short-term bank deposits in institutions rated BBB and above. 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
T rade and other receivables   
Counterparties without external credit rating – existing customers with no defaults in the past 135,685 116,758
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits – BBB rated and above 57,403 80,039
Derivative financial assets – A rated 85 1,012
None of the financial assets that are fully performing have been renegotiated in the last year. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
10 Trade and other receivables 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Trade receivables 120,918 102,551
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (3,587) (2,778)
Trade receivables – net 117,331 99,773
Prepayments 8,520 6,658
Other debtors 18,354 16,985
 144,205 123,416
Less: non-current portion (3,245) (5,191)
Current portion 140,960 118,225
All trade and other receivables are considered to be held at fair value. 
All non-current receivables are due within two years of the balance sheet date. 
As of 31 December 2014, trade receivables of €101,978,000 (2013: €88,711,000) were fully performing.  
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2014, trade receivables of 
€15,353,000 (2013: €11,062,000) were less than three months past due, but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers for whom there is no recent history of default. There is no collateral held as security for the amounts that are past due, 
although credit insurance is purchased if available.  
As of 31 December 2014, trade receivables of €3,587,000 (2013: €2,778,000) were impaired. The amount of provision was €3,587,000 
(2013: €2,778,000) as of 31 December 2014. This primarily relates to the EMEA region which has experienced a slower recovery from 
the economic downturn than other regions. All of these receivables are over six months old. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Euro 56,281 50,479
Sterling 8,243 9,296
US Dollar 23,634 15,984
Japanese Y en 14,829 15,026
Other currencies 41,218 32,631
Total 144,205 123,416
Movements on the Group provisions for impairments of trade receivables are as follows: 
 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
At beginning of the year 2,778 3,390
Provision for receivables impairment 1,000 246
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (71) (248)
Reversal of unutilised provision (120) (610)
At end of the year 3,587 2,778
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74 75
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
11 Inventories 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Raw materials 12,682 12,557
Work in progress 8,417 7,514
Finished goods 80,559 63,172
Total 101,658 83,243
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to €224,245,000 (2013: €204,001,000). 
The charge for the year related to inventory write-offs amounted to €512,000 (2013: €244,000) and is included in cost of sales. 
12 Derivative financial instruments 
   2014  2013 
 
Assets 
€’000
Liabilities  
€’000 
Assets 
€’000 
Liabilities 
€’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – economic hedges 85 760 – 137
Interest rate swaps – economic hedges – 161 1,012 –
Total 85 921 1,012 137
Trading derivatives are classified as assets or liabilities. The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if 
the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability , if the maturity of the item is less than 
12 months. Fair value is determined by reference to observable market data.  
The total carrying amount of the asset or liability represents the fair value amount the Group would be required to pay/receive at the 
balance sheet date to/from the holder of the obligation to close out the contract concerned, and is charged/credited to the Group 
income statement. 
(a) Forward foreign exchange contracts 
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2014 were €16,873,000 
(31 December 2013: €15,641,000). 
(b) Interest rate swaps 
At 31 December 2014 the Group has in place two interest rate swap agreements, one denominated in Euro with a notional principal 
amount of €62,414,689 (2013: nil) and one held in Japanese Y en with a notional principal amount of JPY2,657 million (2013: nil). The 
Group also has two interest rate cap agreements, one denominated in USD with a notional principal amount of USD51,960,000, and 
one denominated in GBP with a notional principal amount of GBP15,590,000. These agreements were entered into during 2014 and 
were not in place at 31 December 2013. 
Cross-currency interest rate swaps which had been taken out to hedge the currency fluctuations and interest costs associated with the 
secured notes were redeemed when the secured notes were repaid in March 2014. The notional principal amounts of the outstanding 
interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2014 were €nil (31 December 2013: €220,000,000). 
13 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 
A gain on sale of €902,000 arose in 2013 relating to the sale of a property in the UK in September 2013 for €5,609,000, of which net 
proceeds of €2,885,000 were received in 2013. 
There were no non-current assets held for sale at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
14 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Cash at bank and on hand 57,083 79,760
Short-term bank deposits 320 279
Cash and cash equivalents 57,403 80,039
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to this book value. 
15 Share capital, translation and other reserves 
 
Number 
of shares 
 ‘000 
Ordinary 
shares 
€’000 
Share 
premium
 €’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
Treasury 
shares 
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
€’000
Translation 
reserve 
€’000 
Other 
reserves 
€’000
Total 
€’000
At 31 December 2012 400 10,000 4,700 – – – 20,694 322,652 358,046
Change in Group structure 199,700 (8,000) 366,424 100 – – – (358,424) 100
Redemption of preference shares (100) – – (100) – 100 – – –
Issue of new shares 15,308 153 33,128 – – – – – 33,281
Capital reduction – – (404,252) – – – – – (404,252)
Issue of shares for free share 
scheme 80 1 – –
–
– – – 1
Currency translation differences – – – – – –(32,944) – (32,944)
At 31 December 2013 215,388 2,154 – – – 100 (12,250) (35,772) (45,768)
Issue of new shares 10 – – – – – – – –
Purchase of shares for Global 
Share Plan – – – – (169) – – – (169)
Currency translation differences – – – – – – 11,551 – 11,551
At 31 December 2014 215,398 2,154 – – (169) 100 (699) (35,772) (34,386)
The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 215,398,109 with a par value of €0.01 per share. This comprises 215,308,075 issued 
at the time of the IPO, 80,034 issued for the employee free share scheme in 2013, and 10,000 issued on 7 March 2014 for the 
employee global share plan. All issued shares are fully paid by cash consideration and all carry equal voting rights. 
Proceeds from the issue of new shares in 2013 were €35,075,000. The share premium of €33,128,000 is shown net of fees of 
€1,794,000, with the final net proceeds from the primary issue of shares, after deducting further fees which were charged to the 
income statement, being €29,479,000. 
The preference shares were redeemed by the Company resulting in the creation of the capital redemption reserve,  
which is non-distributable.  
Shares purchased by the Group to fulfil the requirements on the UK Global Share Plan are held as treasury shares.  
Other reserves in 2012 comprise capital contributions from the previous shareholders. The balance in 2013 arises on the 
Group restructuring and is carried forward in 2014.  
In 2014, the movement in the currency translation reserve is predominantly due to the movement in the US Dollar and Chinese Yuan 
against the Euro and the impact of this on the re-translation of the assets and liabilities on consolidation. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76 77
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
16 Trade and other payables 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Trade payables 57,074 41,361
Social security and other taxes 7,354 6,448
Accrued expenses 38,703 41,041
 103,131 88,850
Less: non-current portion (793) (686)
Current portion 102,338 88,164
All trade and other payables are considered to be held at fair value. 
17 Borrowings 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Non-current  
Bank borrowings 203,525 –
Secured notes – 222,200
Other loans 7,287 2,586
Finance lease obligations 3,930 4,801
 214,742 229,587
Current  
Other loans 72 –
Finance lease obligations 1,002 979
 1,074 979
T otal borrowings 215,816 230,566
Bank borrowings 
On 26 February 2014 a new five-year €230 million revolving credit facility was signed, of which €200 million was drawn down on 
28 March 2014 and, together with €20 million of existing cash reserves, was utilised to repay the secured notes. The facility was drawn 
down in Euros, GBP , USD and JPY into the respective local businesses, and consequently the gross borrowings are retranslated at the 
closing exchange rates and will not necessarily total €200 million. Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable quarterly in arrears 
at a rate of 1.75% above the applicable LIBOR in the territory where the borrowings are drawn down, for a term of five years.  
Transaction costs in relation to the instrument of €3,039,000 have been capitalised and are being amortised as finance costs over five 
years. The balance of capitalised transaction costs is shown in the table below: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Gross bank borrowings 206,172 –
Capitalised transaction costs (2,647) –
Net bank borrowings 203,525 –
As a result of the new arrangements the Group has an undrawn revolving credit facility of €30 million at 31 December 2014 
(31 December 2013: €80 million). 
Secured notes 
The secured notes were repaid in full on 28 March 2014. As at 31 December 2013 therefore, the liability recognised in respect of the 
secured notes included an early repayment fee of 1%. Interest on the notes was payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 5.125% above 
EURIBOR. Cross currency interest rate swaps which had been taken out to hedge the currency fluctuations and interest costs were 
redeemed at that time. 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
17 Borrowings continued 
Other loans 
Other loans relate to loans against two properties, and are repayable within seven years. 
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: 
 Carrying amount Fair value 
 
2014 
€’000
 
2013  
€’000 
2014  
€’000 
2013 
€’000
Non-current   
Bank borrowings 203,525 – 200,459 –
Secured notes – 222,200 – 222,200
Other loans 7,287 2,586 7,113 2,410
Finance lease obligations 3,930 4,801 4,069 4,614
Total 214,742 229,587 211,641 229,224
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the average borrowing rate of 2.2% (2013: 5.3%). 
The fair value of current borrowings does not differ significantly from their carrying value, as the impact of discounting is not significant.  
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
Currency 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
GBP 19,840 –
Euro 128,500 228,374
US Dollar 49,060 1,892
Japanese Y en 18,071 –
Other currencies 345 300
Total 215,816 230,566
Finance lease obligations 
The Group’ s finance leases are principally over land and buildings and, to a lesser extent, vehicles and machinery . The lease liabilities are 
effectively self-secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessors in the event of default. In most cases, the Group has an 
option to purchase at the end of the lease at a pre-determined price. 
Gross amounts payable under finance leases: 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Within one year 1,232 1,250
Between one and five years 4,246 5,315
After five years – –
 5,478 6,565
Less: amounts representing future finance charges (546) (785)
 4,932 5,780
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78 79
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
Finance lease obligations 
Land and  
buildings 
€’000 
Vehicles and 
machinery 
€’000 
Total
€’000
31 December 2014 4,587 345 4,932
31 December 2013 5,468 312 5,780
The carrying amount of finance lease obligations is analysed as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Within one year 1,002 979
Between one and five years 3,930 4,801
After five years – –
Total 4,932 5,780
18 Expenses by nature 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress  (18,290) (8,072)
Raw materials and consumables used  242,535 212,073
Employee remuneration and benefit expenses  19 185,937 166,587
Depreciation and amortisation  7, 8 32,085 28,675
Transportation expenses  10,198 8,957
Advertising costs  4,880 5,034
Operating lease payments   7,206 5,887
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses  (1,124) 8,136
Packaging and carriage  20,547 16,130
Power costs  9,349 8,973
Repairs and maintenance  10,314 9,246
Other expenses  10,251 13,721
T otal costs of sales, selling and distribution costs and administrative expenses   513,888 475,347
A reconciliation to the income statement is provided below: 
  
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000 
Cost of sales  343,159 313,207
Selling and distribution costs  133,184 119,422
Administrative expenses   37,545 42,718
  513,888 475,347
The Group obtained and recognised as income a government grant of €321,000 (2013: €395,000), which was granted for a new facility 
in Plymouth, UK. The Group is obliged to employ a specific number of employees at the Plymouth site for at least the next 12 months 
under the terms of this government grant. 
Within these costs, €15,335,000 (2013: €13,591,000) relate to development costs. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
18 Expenses by nature continued 
Auditors’ remuneration 
Services provided by the Company’s auditors and network firms 
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’ s auditors at costs 
detailed below: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Fees payable to operating Company’ s auditors and its associates  
for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated accounts 306 237
Fees payable to operating Company’ s auditors and its associates for other services:  
The audit of the operating Company’ s subsidiaries 477 524
Audit-related assurance services:  
– Fees in relation to IPO – 1,134
– Fees in relation to benchmarking for remuneration arrangements – 426
– Other fees 63 160
Total audit-related assurance services 846 1,720
Tax compliance services 59 92
Tax advisory services 96 55
 1,001 2,628
For further discussion on non-audit services, refer to page 32 (the Audit Committee report). 
19 Employment costs 
 Note 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Wages and salaries  156,600 141,636
Social security costs  21,080 18,708
Pension costs – defined contribution plans  4,155 3,883
Pension costs – defined benefit plans  27 621 715
Share options granted to Directors and employees  26 3,481 1,645
Total  185,937 166,587
 
Number of employees at end of year 2014 2013 
Manufacturing 2,027 1,950
Product development 165 150
Sales and marketing 877 820
Distribution 428 390
Administration 311 296
Total 3,808 3,606
 
Monthly average number of employees during year 2014  2013 
Manufacturing 2,028 1,871
Product development 158 134
Sales and marketing 851 787
Distribution 412 376
Administration 303 275
Total 3,752 3,443
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 81
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
20 Finance income and costs 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000 
Bank borrowings and related swaps (5,995) (1,969)
Secured notes (3,211) (11,891)
Accelerated write-down of transaction fees and early redemption fee (1,027) (12,987)
Net loss on termination of cross currency interest rate swaps (664) –
Parent Company loan – (74)
Ordinary shares – Class A-II – (34)
Preference shares – (4)
Amortisation of transaction fees (466) (2,697)
Bank loans and overdrafts (9) (11)
Finance lease charges (247) (220)
Finance costs (11,619) (29,887)
Fair value gains on financial instruments:  
Forward exchange contracts 85 –
Cross-currency interest rate swaps – 1,012
Interest receivable on short-term bank deposits 762 441
Finance income 847 1,453
Net finance costs (10,772) (28,434)
21 Tax expense 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Current tax  21,018 18,558
Adjustments in respect of prior years  92 420
Total current tax  21,110 18,978
Deferred tax    
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  25 (5,508)
Impact of change in tax rates  (7) 41
Adjustments in respect of prior years  123 (821)
Total deferred tax  22 141 (6,288)
T ax expense  21,251 12,690
The tax on the Group’ s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the Parent Company tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit before tax 72,206 35,110
Tax calculated at Parent Company rate of tax: 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 15,524 8,163
Permanent differences 693 674
Current year losses not recognised in period 28 2,407
Non-deductible interest 252 533
Other temporary differences unrecognised (404) 283
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 215 (401)
Overseas tax rate differences 5,145 1,944
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (202) (913)
T ax expense 21,251 12,690
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
21 Tax expense continued 
The effective rate of taxation applied to underlying profit before tax for the year is 29.5% (2013: 28.5%). The increase in the effective 
rate is primarily due to proportionally more profits in the higher tax rate territories. The following table shows a reconciliation of the tax 
expense on underlying profit (see Note 23) to the actual tax expense.  
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
 €’000
Tax expense on underlying profit before tax at effective rate 23,515 19,272
Tax credit on amortisation of intangibles (1,905) (1,815)
Tax credit on transaction costs (355) (4,148)
Tax credit on one-off costs (466) (619)
Tax charge on gain on disposal of asset 462 –
T ax expense 21,251 12,690
22 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority . The offset amounts are as follows: 
 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Deferred tax assets:  
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months (5,780) (5,792)
 (5,780) (5,792)
 
 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
Deferred tax liabilities:  
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months 13,735 14,629
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months 10,813 9,003
 24,548 23,632
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 18,768 17,840
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 
 Note 
2014  
€’000 
2013
€’000
At 31 December  17,840 23,987
Income statement (credit)/charge  21 141 (6,288)
Credited to equity  (716) (242)
(Credited)/charged to other comprehensive income  (87) 413
Exchange differences  1,590 (30)
At 31 December  18,768 17,840
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82 83
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, after taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets), net 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
€’000
Tax 
losses
 carried 
forward
€’000
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
€’000
Deferred 
tax on
 intangible 
assets
€’000
Deferred  
tax on pay 
accruals 
€’000 
Deferred  
tax on 
share 
based 
payments 
€’000 
Other
€’000
Total
€’000
At 31 December 2012 7,880 (203) (1,906) 18,769 (1,574) – 1,021 23,987
Charged/(credited) to income statement 60 9 (55) (1,815) (361) (306) (3,820) (6,288)
Credited to equity – – – – – (242) – (242)
Charged to other comprehensive income – – 413 – – – – 413
Exchange differences (424) 22 350 (510) 175 – 357 (30)
At 31 December 2013 7,516 (172) (1,198) 16,444 (1,760) (548) (2,442) 17,840
Charged/(credited) to income statement 897 (275) 574 (1,905) 73 (644) 1,421 141
Credited to equity – – – – – (716) – (716)
Charged to other comprehensive income – – (87) – – – – (87)
Exchange differences 875 (44) (2) 1,101 (151) – (189) 1,590
At 31 December 2014 9,288 (491) (713) 15,640 (1,838) (1,908) (1,210) 18,768
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future 
taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of €30,655,000 (2013: €12,378,000). 
23 Underlying profit before tax 
The underlying profit before tax is calculated as below: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit before tax  72,206 35,110
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (excludes business software amortisation) 6,790 6,790
Transaction costs 1,234 15,314
Non-cash (gain)/loss on revaluation of intra-group loans (934) 7,542
One-off costs 1,579 3,659
Gain on disposal of asset (1,193) (902)
Underlying profit before tax 79,682 67,513
One-off costs in the year to 31 December 2014 principally represent costs related to facility reorganisations in Japan and ERP 
implementation costs in Germany . One-off costs in the year to 31 December 2013 principally represent costs related to facility 
reorganisation in the USA and termination costs in Europe. 
The gain on disposal of asset in the year to 31 December 2014 relates to the sale of a property in the USA. In the year  
to 31 December 2013 the gain on disposal of asset relates to the sale of a property in the UK.  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
24 Cash generated from operations 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Profit before tax  72,206 35,110
Adjustments for:   
Depreciation and amortisation 7, 8 32,085 28,675
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment (see below)  (1,624) (409)
Profit on disposal of asset held for sale 13 – (902)
Finance costs – net  20 10,772 28,434
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss on operating activities  18 (1,124) 8,136
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of exchange differences on consolidation):  
Inventories  (14,524) (12,374)
Trade and other receivables  (18,838) (26,724)
Trade and other payables  17,853 13,176
Cash generated from operations  96,806 73,122
In the statement of cash flows, proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment comprise: 
 Note 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Net book amount  7 3,600 335
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment  1,624 409
Proceeds from disposal of property , plant and equipment  5,224 744
25 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
 
Legal 
claims
€’000
At 1 January 2014 1,403
Unused amounts reversed in the period (44)
Additional provisions 41
At 31 December 2014 1,400
Analysis of total provisions: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Non-current – –
Current 1,400 1,403
T otal provisions 1,400 1,403
The amounts represent legal costs for claims brought against the Group relating to employee dismissals and other legal 
claims. The charge is recognised in the income statement within “administrative expenses”. The provisions at the end of each year 
are considered to be current since they relate to ongoing legal claims that could be settled at any time. In the Directors’ opinion, 
after taking legal advice, the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided 
at 31 December 2014. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84 85
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
26 Share-based payments 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had two plans involving share-based payments, which are described below.  
The compensation cost recognised in the Group’ s income statement in relation to share-based payment plans is set out in the table below: 
 Expense recognised for the year 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013 
€’000
2013 Long T erm Incentive Plan 1,599 1,479
2014 Long T erm Incentive Plan 1,343 –
Global Share Plan – free shares 369 165
Global Share Plan – matching shares 170 1
 3,481 1,645
Movements in the total number of share options outstanding are as follows: 
 Options 
 
2014 
‘000 
2013 
‘000 
At 1 January  3,868 –
Granted 2,606 3,868
Forfeited (58) –
Exercised – –
Expired – –
At 31 December 6,416 3,868
The exercise price for all the share options is zero. None of the options were exercisable at year end. Details of the plans are described in 
more detail below: 
2014 Long T erm Incentive Plan 
Share options under the 2014 L TIP were issued to certain senior managers in three phases during the year , with those employees being 
granted nil-cost share options (restricted stock units in the USA) dependent on meeting certain performance criteria. Details of these can 
be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 43. These shares vest in three years from the date of grant, and are issued under 
the same basis as the 2013 L TIP . 
Global Share Plan 
The Global Share Plan (GSP) offers three ways to provide shares to employees: free shares; shares purchased using contributions from 
employees; and free matching shares. The free shares and matching shares are at a cost to the Group, and are described in more detail 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 36, and in summary below. 
Employee free shares 
Free shares were awarded to the majority of employees in the Group soon after the IPO during 2013, and these shares vest three years 
from the date of grant.  
Matching shares 
A share matching scheme was established for certain Group employees in December 2013, and was extended further in 2014, with 
the intention to extend this to the remaining eligible employees in the Group. For shares purchased by the employee on a monthly basis, 
the Company will match those shares up to a maximum annual amount. These shares vest three years from the date of grant. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
26 Share-based payments continued 
Fair value and assumptions 
The fair value of the awards under the 2014 and 2013 L TIP and the GSP is estimated at the grant date using either a Black-Scholes 
valuation or a Monte Carlo simulation, depending on the performance conditions that must be met for the award to vest. For the 
element of the share options based on earnings per share (EPS) growth or continuous employment, the Black-Scholes model has been 
used, and for the element of the share options based on the Company’ s total shareholder return (TSR), a Monte Carlo simulation has 
been used.  
The significant assumptions used in these valuation models for awards issued in 2014 are disclosed below: 
 2014 L TIP 
 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Date of grant 1 May 2014 20 May 2014 3 Sep 2014
Number of shares granted 1,100,751 857,524 466,229
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Dividend yield 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Fair value per share at grant date (pence per share (pps)) 292p 267p 286p
Fair value per share with TSR performance condition (pps) 173p 158p 170p
All the share grants have a zero exercise price and have a vesting date of three years from the grant date.  
An estimated share price volatility rate of 31% has been used for grants in the period. This is based on the historic volatility of a 
comparator group of 20 FTSE 350 All Share companies over three years, as there is no share price history available for the Group before 
April 2013. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds over three years as determined by the Bank 
of England, and the rate applied during the year was 1.1% to 1.3% depending on the grant date.  
The fair value of the share options for the matching share scheme is estimated as the share price at grant date. 
The fair values are calculated in Sterling as the shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange, and translated into Euro at the relevant 
exchange rates. 
27 Retirement benefit obligations 
 
Pension benefits 
The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan in Japan and South Africa based on employee pensionable remuneration and length 
of service. Plan assets are held in trusts or similar entities governed by local regulatory frameworks and practices, which have no 
significant impact on the implementation of the schemes. These schemes cover 230 employees (2013: 231) with the balance of 
employees in the Group covered by optional defined contribution schemes where available.  
a) Japan 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Balance sheet obligation for pension benefits 2,721 2,542
Income statement charge for pension benefits 609 641
Statement of other comprehensive income: remeasurements 265 (862)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Present value of funded obligations 9,745 8,778
Fair value of plan assets (7,024) (6,236)
Liability in the balance sheet 2,721 2,542
 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86 87
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
 
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
At 1 January 8,778 10,648
Current service cost 557 571
Interest cost 181 187
Remeasurements: experience losses/(gains) 509 (139)
Exchange gains (40) (2,345)
Benefits paid (240) (144)
At 31 December 9,745 8,778
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
At 1 January 6,236 6,281
Interest income 129 110
Remeasurements: return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 244 723
Exchange losses (14) (1,343)
Employer contributions 669 609
Benefits paid (240) (144)
At 31 December 7,024 6,236
 
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 
 2014 2013
Discount rate 2.0% 2.0%
Inflation rate 0.0% 0.0%
Future salary increases 2.0% 2.0%
Future pension increases 7.0% 7.0%
In 2014, the life expectancies for women and men in Japan were 87 years and 80 years respectively (2013: 86 years and 80 years). 
For HellermannT yton Japan, the official retirement age is 60. For employees retiring from HellermannT yton Japan at 60 years of age, 
there is a choice in respect of their pensions. They can elect to receive a lump sum payment or choose to have the pension paid to 
them in instalments spread over five to ten years. Where employees choose to receive the money in instalments, these are paid quarterly 
from the pension fund over the specified duration (minimum five years, maximum ten years). As there are no options for pensions 
to be paid out over more than ten years (or conversely paid out over less than four years, except in the case of a lump sum payment), 
life expectancy is not factored into the calculations. 
Plan assets are comprised as follows: 
 
2014
€’000 % 
2013
€’000 %
Equity instruments 2,550 36% 2,121 34%
Debt instruments 4,113 59% 3,658 59%
Property 59 1% 56 1%
Other 302 4% 402 6%
 7,024 100% 6,236 100%
 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
27 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
b) South Africa 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Balance sheet asset for pension benefits 1,197 1,103
Income statement charge for pension benefits 13 74
Statement of other comprehensive income: remeasurements  37 (572)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Present value of funded obligations (2,549) (2,304)
Fair value of plan assets 3,746 3,407
Asset on the balance sheet 1,197 1,103
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
At 1 January 2,304 3,549
Current service cost 115 120
Interest cost 227 231
Remeasurements:  
Loss/(gain) from change in financial assumptions 197 (172)
Experience gains (143) (362)
 54 (534)
Exchange losses/(gains) 81 (838)
Benefits paid (238) (231)
Member contributions 33 35
Risk premiums (27) (28)
At 31 December 2,549 2,304
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows: 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
At 1 January 3,407 4,168
Interest income 329 277
Remeasurements: return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 17 38
Exchange gains/(losses) 115 (969)
Employer contributions 110 117
Benefits paid (238) (231)
Member contributions 33 35
Risk premiums (27) (28)
At 31 December 3,746 3,407
 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88 89
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 
 2014 2013
Discount rate 9.10% 9.80%
Inflation rate 6.90% 7.20%
Future salary increases 7.90% 8.20%
Future pension increases 5.52% 5.76%
The average life expectancy of a pensioner retiring at 65 is 15 years for a man (2013: 17 years) and 18 years for a woman  
(2013: 21 years). 
Plan assets are comprised as follows: 
 
2014
€’000 % 
2013
€’000 %
Equity instruments 2,327 62% 2,252 66%
Debt instruments 459 12% 524 15%
Property 196 5% 119 4%
Other 764 21% 514 15%
 3,746 100% 3,407 100%
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is as follows: 
 
Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 
Change in 
assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption
Discount rate 1.0%Decrease by 14.4% Increase by 21.4%
Inflation rate 1.0%Increase by 18.8% Decrease by 12.9%
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption specified while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, 
this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined 
benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with 
the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
in the balance sheet. 
28 Operating lease commitments 
The Group leases various office, warehouse and factory space under non-cancellable operating leases. The lease terms are between 
three and ten years, and the majority are renewable at the end of the lease at market rates. 
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under cancellable operating leases. The lease expenditure charged to the income 
statement in the year is disclosed in Note 18. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments, which fall due as follows:  
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
In respect of land and buildings  
Within one year 5,109 3,305
In the second to fifth years 9,861 5,169
Over five years 7,669 2,306
 22,639 10,780
In respect of plant and equipment  
Within one year 1,189 1,010
In the second to fifth years 969 987
 2,158 1,997
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
 
29 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note.  
T rading transactions 
Group companies did not enter into trading transactions with related parties that are not members of the Group. 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the Board (including Non-executive Directors) and Regional Presidents, who are the key management personnel of 
the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories. 
 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Short-term employee benefits 4,034 3,366
Post-employment benefits  125 112
Share-based payments 757 483
 4,916 3,961
Loans from related parties 
Prior to the listing of the Company’ s shares in April 2013, the company was controlled by Doughty Hanson and Co Managers Limited 
which, in addition to ordinary shares in the Company , held A-II ordinary and redeemable preference shares in the Company , while the 
Company’ s then immediate parent company had made significant loans to the Company . Following the listing of the Company’ s shares, 
these shares were redeemed and the loans were repaid. 
30 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
By activity 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Capital expenditure commitments contracted but not provided:  
Property , plant and equipment 17,706 13,166
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90 91
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
Independent auditors’ report  
to the Members of HellermannT yton Group PLC 
 
Report on the Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, HellermannT yton Group PLC’ s Company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”): 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’ s affairs 
as at 31 December 2014; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
HellermannT yton Group PLC’ s financial statements comprise: 
 the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; and 
 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than 
in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and 
the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs 
(UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is: 
 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or 
 otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company , or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility . 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility .  
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board‘s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company‘s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors’ report 
to the Members of HellermannT yton Group PLC continued 
 
 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes 
an assessment of:  
 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Company‘s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed;  
 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and  
 the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors‘ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements 
of HellermannT yton Group PLC for the year ended  
31 December 2014. 
Rosemary Shapland  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
Gatwick 
27 February 2015 
 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92 93
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
  
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2014 
 
 Note 
2014
€’000
2013 
€’000
Fixed assets  
Investment in subsidiaries 3 378,081 374,769
Tangible assets 4 432 –
  378,513 374,769
Current assets  
Debtors due within one year 5 23,609 7,869
Cash at bank and in hand  12 23,125
  23,621 30,994
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Other creditors 6 (16,268) (1,087)
  (16,268) (1,087)
Net current assets  7,353 29,907
T otal assets less current liabilities  385,866 404,676
Net assets  385,866 404,676
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 7 2,154 2,154
Capital redemption reserve 7 100 100
Profit and loss account 7 383,612 402,422
T otal shareholders’ funds  385,866 404,676
The notes on pages 94 to 97 are an integral part of these Company financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 93 to 97 were approved by the Board on 27 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: 
David Newlands Tim Jones 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registered number: 08409650 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014  
 
1 Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
HellermannT yton Group PLC (“the Company”) was incorporated on 19 February 2013. T o facilitate the admission to the market, the 
entire issued share capital of HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. was acquired by the Company . Prior to this restructuring, the business was 
conducted solely through HellermannT yton Alpha S.à.r .l. and its subsidiaries. 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Accounting Standards, 
under the historical cost convention., and on the going concern basis. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare its own profit and loss 
account. The Company’ s loss for the year before tax is €4,960,000.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under the scope of FRS 1 not to prepare a cash flow statement. 
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year, are set out below. 
Investments 
Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment where a permanent diminution in value has been identified. 
T angible assets 
Tangible fixed assets comprise furniture, fixtures and fittings and are stated at historic cost, comprising the purchase price plus incidental 
expenses or fair value when acquired, less accumulated depreciation and, when appropriate, provision for impairment. 
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets less estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over 
the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The asset life is estimated as five years. 
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. If an impairment is identified, it is charged to profit or loss. 
Foreign currencies 
The Company has chosen to present the financial statements in Euros. The functional currency of the Company is the Euro. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transactions. 
Share-based payments 
The Company operates a number of equity settled share-based compensation plans and has applied the requirements of IFRS 2,  
“Share-based payments”. 
Grants of shares to employees are measured at fair value at the grant date and expensed over the relevant vesting period, based on an 
estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the 
revision of the original estimates, if any , is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimates with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings, these awards are accounted 
for by the Company as an additional investment in its subsidiary. 
Other debtors 
Other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. 
Pension contributions 
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for employees. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those 
of the Company . The annual contributions payable are charged to the profit and loss account. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94 95
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
T axation 
Deferred taxation is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet 
date. Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
Dividends 
Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been 
approved by the shareholders at the AGM. Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid. 
2 Employee information 
Employee costs are borne by HellermannT yton Limited. For details of Directors’ remuneration, refer to disclosure in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
3 Investments in subsidiaries 
Cost and net book value 
Investment in 
subsidiaries
€’000
At incorporation –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 373,124
Share-based payments 1,645
At 31 December 2013 374,769
Share-based payments 3,312
At 31 December 2014 378,081
A list of the principal subsidiaries which affected the Group’ s profits and net assets is set out below. A full list of the subsidiary 
undertakings will be filed with the next annual return. 
Principal subsidiaries Principal activity Location  
Equity interest 
at 31 December 
2014
HellermannT yton Holdings Ltd* Holding company Crawley , UK 100%
HellermannT yton Alpha S.à r .l.  Holding company Luxembourg 100%
HellermannT yton Beta S.à r .l.  Holding company Luxembourg 100%
HellermannT yton Finance PLC Finance company Crawley , UK 100%
HellermannT yton Ltd Manufacturing Manchester and Plymouth, UK 100%
HellermannT yton GmbH Manufacturing Tornesch, Germany 100%
HellermannT yton SAS Manufacturing Trappes, France 100%
HellermannT yton AB Distribution and warehousing Jarfalla, Sweden 100%
HellermannT yton (Pty) Ltd Manufacturing Johannesburg, South Africa 100%
HellermannT yton GmbH Distribution and warehousing Vienna, Austria 100%
HellermannT yton Ltda Manufacturing Jundiaí, Brazil 100%
HellermannT yton Pte Ltd Manufacturing Yishun, Singapore 100%
HellermannT yton Data Ltd Manufacturing Northampton, UK 100%
HellermannT yton Corporation Manufacturing Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA 100%
HellermannT yton Co., Ltd Manufacturing Tokyo, Japan 100%
* Subsidiary owned directly. 
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Company financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 continued 
 
4 Tangible assets 
Cost 
Furniture,
fixtures and 
fittings
€’000
At 1 January 2014 –
Additions 505
At 31 December 2014 505
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2014 –
Charge for the year 73
At 31 December 2014 73
Net book amount  
At 31 December 2014 432
At 31 December 2013 –
5 Debtors 
Amounts due within one year 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 23,482 7,624
Other debtors 1 182
Prepayments and accrued income 126 63
Total 23,609 7,869
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
6 Creditors 
Amounts falling due within one year 
2014 
€’000 
2013
€’000
Trade creditors 441 53
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 15,439 1,034
Other creditors and accruals 388 –
Total 16,268 1,087
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. 
  
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96 97
Other 
information
Strategic 
report
Financial  
statements Governance
 
 
 
 
7 Share capital and retained earnings 
 
 
Number of 
shares
 ‘000
Called up 
share 
capital 
€’000
Share 
premium 
account
 €’000
Preference 
shares 
€’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
€’000 
Profit and 
loss 
account 
€’000
Total
shareholders’ 
funds 
€’000
At incorporation – – – – – – –
Issue of ordinary shares 215,308 2,153404,252 – – – 406,405
Issue of preference shares 100 – – 100 – – 100
Capital reduction – – (404,252) – – 404,252 –
Redemption of preference shares (100) – – (100) 100 (100) (100)
Issue of shares for free share scheme 80 1 – – – – 1
Loss for the year – – – – – (540) (540)
Dividends paid – – – – – (2,835) (2,835)
Share-based payments – – – – – 1,645 1,645
At 31 December 2013 215,388 2,154 – – 100 402,422 404,676
Issue of shares for global share plan 10 – – – – – –
Loss for the year – – – – – (4,960) (4,960)
Dividends paid – – – – – (17,162) (17,162)
Share-based payments – – – – – 3,312 3,312
At 31 December 2014 215,398 2,154 – – 100 383,612 385,866
For further details of the share capital, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. 
8 Dividends 
For details of the dividends, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. 
9 Share-based payments 
For details of the share-based payments, see Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. Costs borne by the Company exclude the 
costs of matching shares in the Global Share Plan, which are borne by subsidiary companies. 
 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98
Secretary and registered office 
Hayley Whitehead 
Griffin House 
135 High Street 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 1DQ 
Phone +44 (0)1293 608905 
Fax +44 (0)1293 531715 
Website: www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com  
Registered in England and Wales number 08409650
Ordinary shares
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrars
All enquiries concerning existing shareholdings, change of address 
or lost share certificates should be directed to Equiniti using any of 
the methods below:
In writing: 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
By telephone: 
0871 384 2030 (if calling from the UK); or 
+44 (0)121 415 7047 (if calling from overseas) 
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Financial calendar
Year ended 
31 December 2014
Six months ending 
30 June 2015
Results announced 2 March 2015 Late 
August 2015
Reports posted 25 March 2015 –
Ex-dividend date 19 March 2015 Early 
September 2015
Dividend record 
date
20 March 2015 Early 
September 2015
Annual 
general meeting
29 April 2015 –
Dividend 
payment date
6 May 2015 Mid October 2015
Final dates and any changes will be notified as appropriate. 
The Company’s results announcements are published through 
the London Stock Exchange. All announcements and Annual 
Reports are available on the Group’s investor relations website at 
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com. 
Electronic communications
Shareholders can also view up-to-date information 
about their shareholding and register to receive future 
electronic communications from the Company by visiting 
www.shareview.co.uk (shareholder reference number,  
shown on share certificate and tax vouchers, will be required). 
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification  
by email of the publication of financial reports by registering on 
www.shareview.co.uk. 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
The Portland Building 
25 High Street 
Crawley RH10 1BG
Solicitors
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (UK) LLP 
40 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5DS
Joint stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove 
29th Floor, 25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB
Principal banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland 
PO Box 412 
62–63 Threadneedle Street 
London EC2R 8LA
Shareholder information Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 99
Other 
information
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Identity theft
Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your 
shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding:
 – Ensure that all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold 
your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
 – Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows 
your shareholder reference number in a safe place, or destroy 
correspondence by shredding.
 – If you change address, inform the registrars. If you receive a 
letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and 
have not recently moved, please contact them immediately. 
You may be the victim of identity theft.
 – If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Warning to shareholders
Over the last year, many companies have become aware that 
their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters which imply a 
connection to the company concerned. These are typically from 
overseas-based “brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to 
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in 
US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 
survey by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (formerly the 
Financial Services Authority) has reported that the average amount 
lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor 
that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been 
successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are advised 
to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at 
a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
 – Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation and make a record of any other information 
they give you, e.g. telephone number, address etc. 
 – Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before 
getting involved. You can check at www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
 – The FCA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised 
overseas firms which are targeting, or have targeted, UK 
investors and any approach from such organisations should 
be reported to the FCA so that this list can be kept up to date 
and any other appropriate action can be considered. If you deal 
with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive 
payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
The FCA can, preferably, be contacted by completing an online 
form at www.fca.org.uk/scams or, if you do not have access to 
the internet, on 0800 111 6768.  HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100
AGM: Annual general meeting
Bribery Act: Bribery Act 2010 (UK)
CAGR: Compound annual growth rate
CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent
CSR: Corporate social responsibility
Defra: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EBITA: Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation
EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa
EPS: Earnings per share
ERP: Enterprise resource planning
EU: European Union
Euribor: Euro interbank offered rate
FCA: Financial Conduct Authority
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act: Foreign Corrupt Practices  
Act of 1977 (US)
GSP: Global Share Plan
GW: Gigawatt
HMRC: Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
IAS: International Accounting Standards
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards
IPO: Initial Public Offering
ISO: International Standards Organisation
KPI: Key Performance Indicator
LDV: Light duty vehicle
LED: Light emitting diode
LTI: Long Term Incentive
LTIP: Long Term Incentive Plan
OEM: Original equipment manufacturer
PA11: Polyamide 1 1
PA66: Polyamide 66 (“Nylon”)
PAEK: Polyaryletherketones, a high-performance polymer
PEEK: Polyetheretherketone, a high-performance polymer
PLC: Public Limited Company
PV: Photovoltaic
PVC: Polyvinyl chloride
RoHS: Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2012 (UK)
SBPAV0: Spiral binding made from halogen-free 
polyamide material
SKU: Stock keeping unit
SPA: Shared product architecture
STI: Short Term Incentive
TULT: A type of polyolefin-based polymer with heat 
shrinkable properties
TS: Technical Specification
TSR: Total shareholder return
UL: Underwriters Laboratories
UV: Ultraviolet
WEEE: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 
2013 (UK)
Abbreviations Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger 
Offset which is FSC
®
 certified and made from 100% 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the 
printer are both certified to ISO 14001 environmental 
management system and registered to EMAS the eco 
management Audit Scheme. The report was printed 
using vegetable based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer. HellermannTyton Group PLC 
Griffin House 
135 High Street 
Crawley 
West Sussex 
RH10 1DQ
www.hellermanntytoninvestors.com
