 Pantone 541 background
Recommend a sealer coat or
a lamination with an open window 
around the embossed logo.
Heritage Logo
Silver Foil Embossed
Heritage Oil Limited
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited is an independent  
oil and gas exploration and production 
company with a primary listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOIL) and Exchangeable Shares 
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOC) and London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOX). The Company currently 
focuses on operations in Africa, the Middle 
East and Russia.
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Chief Executive’s Q&A
10 Operations Review
 10 Uganda
 14 Kurdistan Region of Iraq
 16 Tanzania
 18  Democratic Republic  
of Congo
 20 Mali
 22 Malta
 24 Pakistan
 26 Russia
Financial Review
28 Committed to Generating Value
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
32 Co-operative Relationships
Board of Directors
34  Board of Directors
Corporate Governance
36 Corporate Governance Report
41 Remuneration Report
47 Directors’ Report
51  Responsibility Statement of the 
Directors
52  Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Heritage  
Oil Limited
Financial Statements
53 Consolidated Income Statement
54  Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income  
and Expense
55  Consolidated Balance Sheet
56  Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
57  Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Other
81  Glossary of Technical Terms  
and Definitions
82 List of Advisers
83 Financial Calendar
Cover page shows Miran Block in Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Head Office and  
Directors’ Business Address:
Fourth Floor, Windward House  
La Route de la Liberation  
Jersey JE1 1BG  
Channel Islands
Tel +44 1534 873000
Fax +44 1534 873344
www.heritageoilltd.com Pantone 541 background
Recommend a sealer coat or
a lamination with an open window 
around the embossed logo.
Heritage Logo
Silver Foil Embossed
Heritage Oil Limited
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited is an independent  
oil and gas exploration and production 
company with a primary listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOIL) and Exchangeable Shares 
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOC) and London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOX). The Company currently 
focuses on operations in Africa, the Middle 
East and Russia.
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Chief Executive’s Q&A
10 Operations Review
 10 Uganda
 14 Kurdistan Region of Iraq
 16 Tanzania
 18  Democratic Republic  
of Congo
 20 Mali
 22 Malta
 24 Pakistan
 26 Russia
Financial Review
28 Committed to Generating Value
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
32 Co-operative Relationships
Board of Directors
34  Board of Directors
Corporate Governance
36 Corporate Governance Report
41 Remuneration Report
47 Directors’ Report
51  Responsibility Statement of the 
Directors
52  Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Heritage  
Oil Limited
Financial Statements
53 Consolidated Income Statement
54  Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income  
and Expense
55  Consolidated Balance Sheet
56  Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
57  Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Other
81  Glossary of Technical Terms  
and Definitions
82 List of Advisers
83 Financial Calendar
Cover page shows Miran Block in Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Head Office and  
Directors’ Business Address:
Fourth Floor, Windward House  
La Route de la Liberation  
Jersey JE1 1BG  
Channel Islands
Tel +44 1534 873000
Fax +44 1534 873344
www.heritageoilltd.com A Balanced Portfolio  
of Diverse Assets
Near term focus on the core activity areas  >
of Uganda and Kurdistan 
High impact exploration plays which can  >
transform the Company
Sufficient oil volumes have been found in  >
the Albert Basin, Uganda, to justify a major 
commercial development  
Medium and longer term focus is Tanzania,  >
where seismic acquisition has recently 
been completed, the DRC, Malta, Mali  
and Pakistan
Production asset in Russia >
Experienced 
Management
Solid understanding of local geology and  >
politics in all areas of operations
Track-record of finding valuable world-class  >
discoveries
Extensive network of contacts  >
Strong oil and gas experience >
Proven Track-Record
Discovered the M’Boundi field in the  >
Republic of Congo in 2001
Raised approximately $100 million from   >
the sale of assets in the Republic of Congo 
between 2002 and 2006
Funds re-invested to acquire current  >
portfolio
Pioneering entry into the Albert Basin,  >
Uganda, in 1997 – we have now unlocked  
a multi-billion barrel basin
Sold Oman holdings in April 2009 for   >
$28 million to fund acceleration of work 
programmes in core areas
Strategic Positioning
Focus on high impact exploration plays >
First mover advantage – as demonstrated   >
by success with significant holdings in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Core areas are Africa, Middle East   >
and Russia
    Exploration (  Operated)
Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”)
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Mali
Malta
Pakistan
Tanzania
Uganda
    Production (  Operated)
Russia
Where we operate A Balanced Portfolio  
of Diverse Assets
Near term focus on the core activity areas  >
of Uganda and Kurdistan 
High impact exploration plays which can  >
transform the Company
Sufficient oil volumes have been found in  >
the Albert Basin, Uganda, to justify a major 
commercial development  
Medium and longer term focus is Tanzania,  >
where seismic acquisition has recently 
been completed, the DRC, Malta, Mali  
and Pakistan
Production asset in Russia >
Experienced 
Management
Solid understanding of local geology and  >
politics in all areas of operations
Track-record of finding valuable world-class  >
discoveries
Extensive network of contacts  >
Strong oil and gas experience >
Proven Track-Record
Discovered the M’Boundi field in the  >
Republic of Congo in 2001
Raised approximately $100 million from   >
the sale of assets in the Republic of Congo 
between 2002 and 2006
Funds re-invested to acquire current  >
portfolio
Pioneering entry into the Albert Basin,  >
Uganda, in 1997 – we have now unlocked  
a multi-billion barrel basin
Sold Oman holdings in April 2009 for   >
$28 million to fund acceleration of work 
programmes in core areas
Strategic Positioning
Focus on high impact exploration plays >
First mover advantage – as demonstrated   >
by success with significant holdings in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Core areas are Africa, Middle East   >
and Russia
    Exploration (  Operated)
Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”)
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Mali
Malta
Pakistan
Tanzania
Uganda
    Production (  Operated)
Russia
Where we operate Highlights
Operational
Sufficient oil volumes have been  >
discovered in the Albert Basin, 
Uganda, to exceed the commercial 
threshold for development
Discovered the world-class  >
Buffalo-Giraffe field in Block 1, 
Uganda
Kingfisher-3 well, Block 3A,  >
Uganda, discovered oil in the three 
main reservoirs structurally higher 
than anticipated, increasing the 
areal extent of the field
Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan  >
Region of Iraq encountered oil 
over an interval of 1,100 metres in 
2009 and is currently being tested
Collected 2D seismic over the  >
Kimbiji and Kisangire Blocks in 
Tanzania, where Heritage farmed-
in earlier in the year
Expanded the portfolio of  >
properties: Farmed-in to two  
licences in Mali; four blocks 
in Tanzania and one licence in 
Pakistan
Financial
Primary listing on the Main Market  >
of the London Stock Exchange 
completed on 31 March 2008
Joined the FTSE 250 Index on   >
23 June 2008
Net production increased by 26%  >
year-on-year
Strong balance sheet with cash  >
position of $91 million as at  
31 December 2008
Sale of holdings in Oman,  >
subsequent to the year end, 
realised cash of $28 million to fund 
acceleration of work programmes 
in core activity areas
In April 2009, third party back-in  >
rights for 25% were exercised on 
the Miran Licence in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq. Heritage received 
$6.7 million (25% of back costs)
Termination of a refinery  >
commitment for over $140 million 
in return for making payments out 
of future oil and gas sales from 
the Miran Licence in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq 
Independent research analyst  >
coverage increased from one 
party to twelve
Outlook
Testing of the Miran West-1 well  >
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq is 
being undertaken during April 2009
Further drilling on the Miran   >
Licence in 2009 will be considered  
following test results from the 
Miran West-1 well
A further exploration and appraisal  >
drilling programme is planned to 
commence in Block 1, Uganda,  
in the second half of 2009
All dollars are US$ unless otherwise stated Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 02
Potential for Growth
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that 2008 was another year of  
very strong progress for Heritage both operationally  
and in terms of positioning the Company for steady  
near- and long-term growth in shareholder value. 
Our strategy of seeking out and investing  
in exploration and early development 
opportunities with high-impact potential, while 
also expanding our exposure to European 
capital markets and the international oil and 
gas sector, is proving to be effective.
Operations
Operating highlights include world-class 
discoveries in the Albert Basin, Uganda, and 
commencement of drilling of the Miran West-1 
well in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is now 
in the process of being tested. 
Our considerable achievements in Uganda 
include continued drilling success in Block 3A, 
highlighted by Kingfisher-2 testing at a 
combined rate of 14,364 bopd, and successful 
drilling in Block 1. Our discovery of the 
Buffalo-Giraffe field in Block 1, Uganda, is 
believed, by management, to be the largest 
onshore oil field discovered in Sub-Saharan 
Africa in the last 20 years. Exceptional results 
from Uganda drilling have established a gross 
resource of approximately 600 million barrels. 
This is above the volume considered necessary 
for major infrastructure development for the 
Albert Basin. Our Albert Basin results indicate 
the outstanding potential of this region. This 
could transform the Company, especially as  
we continue with further exploration and 
development. Having operated in Uganda since 
1997, Heritage, as operator with a 50% equity 
interest in Blocks 1 and 3A, is strongly 
positioned to be a major participant in the 
future development of this world-class resource.
Another notable highlight of 2008 was the 
excellent progress made in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, a highly prospective, and as  
yet under-developed, oil-prone region. The 
undiscovered potential of the region has been 
estimated at 40 billion barrels of oil and 60 
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, ranking it as 
one of the most highly prospective untapped 
energy resource regions in the world. It is 
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman
reported that the exploration success rate in 
Iraq has historically averaged over 80%. 
Heritage has been active in Kurdistan since 
2004 and we are strongly committed to the 
region. We were the second of 21 companies 
that have been awarded Production Sharing 
Contracts (“PSCs”) by the Kurdistan Regional 
Government (“KRG”) since their petroleum  
law was passed in August 2007.
On 25 March 2009 we announced drilling  
of the Miran West-1 well had completed and 
had reached a total depth of 2,935 metres.  
The well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows in  
the three principal known productive reservoir 
formations in the region. We are in the process 
of undertaking a series of drill stem tests over  
a gross interval of approximately 500 metres. 
We believe our operations in this region also 
have the potential to transform the Company. 
Our commitment and enthusiasm for the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq is reflected in the 
acceleration of our programmes.
London Listing
Our most significant corporate achievement  
of 2008 was the primary listing of our shares 
on the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange, which was completed at the end  
of March, a move that was overwhelmingly 
supported by our shareholders. This  
listing initiative was undertaken to increase 
liquidity, unlock additional value creation  
for shareholders and also to enhance the 
Company’s status and profile among European 
investors and within the international oil and 
gas sector as a whole.
The London listing, which was followed by  
the Company’s inclusion as a member of the 
prestigious FTSE 250 Index, was accompanied 
by a reorganisation that saw the establishment 
of a new parent company, Heritage Oil Limited, 
in Jersey. Given the geographic spread of 
Heritage’s operational activities and licences,  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03
Workers at the Miran West-1 well,   >
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
2008 was a year of 
exceptional progress for 
Heritage, and the outlook 
for 2009 and beyond is 
very encouraging.
we believed that it was appropriate for the 
Company to be domiciled in the British Isles, 
where a substantial number of investors  
and the Company’s management reside.
Also, as part of the corporate reorganisation, 
the Company’s shares were effectively split  
on a ten-for-one basis. This was designed to 
further enhance trading volumes and liquidity 
of our shares for the benefit of all shareholders.
Financial
After the Company’s success in raising 
significant amounts of capital in 2007, no 
additional financing was required in 2008. 
Heritage finished the year with a strong balance 
sheet and cash to finance planned operations  
in 2009. Nevertheless, our recent exceptional 
success means that we now intend to 
accelerate work programmes in Uganda and 
Kurdistan. With this in mind, we made a 
decision to dispose of our non-core interests in 
Oman. Oman disposal proceeds of $28 million, 
plus $400,000 in working capital adjustments, 
are to be used to fund accelerated programmes 
in our core areas. In regard to financing 
large-scale infrastructure programmes in 
Uganda, I am pleased to report that we have 
been approached by a number of parties. Initial 
proposals involve terms that would significantly 
reduce our financing requirements.
Social Responsibility
As a company that operates in remote and 
comparatively undeveloped regions of the 
world, we recognise that our responsibilities to 
local communities go beyond simply providing 
funds and local employment. We are committed 
to implementing community programmes  
in health, education, public facility and 
environmental awareness, and we work actively 
with local communities to secure trust and 
mutual co-operation. Over the course of the last 
18 months we have undertaken a significant 
investment in the Carl Nefdt Memorial Primary 
School, in Block 3A, Uganda. We intend  
to undertake similar projects in our other  
core interest areas as our operational  
activities expand.
Board of Directors
During 2008 we were delighted to welcome 
Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael 
Wilkes KCB, CBE to the Group as Non-
Executive Directors. Both appointments are 
outstanding additions to the Board and both 
are already making valuable contributions to 
the Company.
Outlook
As always, I am very grateful to our talented 
management team and employees for their 
dedication and contribution to the remarkable 
growth Heritage has enjoyed this past year. 
2008 was a year of exceptional progress  
for Heritage and the outlook for 2009 and 
beyond is highly encouraging. Operations in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are 
particularly promising and we continue to look 
for further strong results from investments and 
activities in other operating areas. I would add 
that in the future, as in the past, our overriding 
objective is to create real and lasting value for 
our shareholders.
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman
Milestones
April 2009 > Sale of Oman holdings
April 2009 > Commenced testing the 
Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq
April 2009 > Termination of a refinery 
commitment in the Kurdistan Region  
of Iraq
January 2009 > Successful completion 
of the Kingfisher-3A well, Uganda 
January 2009 > Successful Giraffe-1 
exploration well in Block 1, Uganda –  
a world class discovery
December 2008 > Commenced drilling 
the Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq
December 2008 > Successful 
completion of the Kingfisher-3 well
December 2008 > Successful Buffalo-1 
well in Block 1, Uganda
October 2008 > Successful Warthog-1 
exploration well in Block 1, Uganda
September 2008 > Commenced three 
well exploration programme in Block 1, 
Uganda 
September 2008 > Commenced drilling 
Kingfisher-3 and -3A wells in Block 3A, 
Uganda
September 2008 > Obtained 
government approval and completed 
farm-in documentation in Tanzania
August 2008 > Reported record test 
results in Uganda with the Kingfisher-2 well
June 2008 > FTSE 250 Index Inclusion
April 2008 > Commenced drilling the 
Kingfisher-2 well in Uganda
March 2008 > Dealings commenced  
on the London Stock Exchange
February 2008 > Completion of the Mali 
farm-in documentation for two licences
February 2008 > Announced corporate 
reorganisation Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 04
First Mover Advantage
Chief Executive’s Review
Operational success has dramatically transformed Heritage. 
Our outstanding drilling successes in Blocks 1 and 3A  
in the Albert Basin, Uganda, mean we are now confident  
that sufficient volumes have been discovered to justify  
a major development. 
The work programme on the Miran Block in  
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq was accelerated 
following the completion of a seismic survey  
in the second quarter of 2008. The Miran 
West-1 well, which commenced drilling on 
21 December 2008, reached a total depth  
of 2,935 metres on 25 March 2009. This  
well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows over 
the three targeted reservoir intervals. A series  
of tests is being performed over a gross 
interval of approximately 500 metres. These 
achievements, coupled with listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange and  
the corporate reorganisation that raised the 
Company’s profile as a significant player in  
the international oil and gas industry, puts  
us in excellent shape for the achievement  
of near- and long-term growth in production 
and reserves and also in shareholder value.
2008 was a year of extreme volatility in 
international crude oil markets, with price 
fluctuations of a magnitude never seen before. 
Fortunately, as primarily an exploration 
company with international projects in proven 
light oil basins, Heritage was not dramatically 
affected by short-term price volatility and we 
remain confident that the longer-term outlook 
for oil and gas is positive. The world will 
continue to need hydrocarbons which will 
require new production from remote and 
challenging regions. At Heritage we remain 
committed to seeking out such opportunities 
and managing political and operational risk 
with a diverse portfolio and a prudent mix of 
exploration, development and production.
Our long-standing strategy of being an early 
entrant in prospective regions, demonstrating 
our management and technical expertise,  
and our commitment to building working 
relationships with local and international 
companies and governments, gives us  
the flexibility to react quickly to changing 
circumstances.
Anthony Buckingham  
Chief Executive Officer
The combination of aggressive investment, 
prudent risk management and operating 
excellence has yielded exceptional results 
throughout 2008 and into 2009. This includes 
our discovery of the world-class Buffalo-Giraffe 
field in Block 1, Uganda where we are the 
operator with a 50% interest.
Africa
Uganda
The world-class Kingfisher field in Block 3A 
was discovered in 2007. This significant 
discovery was surpassed with the discovery  
of the large Buffalo-Giraffe field, in Block 1,  
in January 2009. On current estimates, the 
Buffalo-Giraffe field has an area of approximately 
48 square kilometres and an oil column of 140 
metres. The structure may extend even further 
to include the Buffalo East prospect, creating a 
very large structure of up to 90 square 
kilometres. Initial estimates for the Buffalo-
Giraffe field are recoverable resources of 
approximately 350 million barrels (gross), 
which is not only a major field in itself, but also 
significantly de-risks the many other potential 
targets in the block.
Operations in this basin have continued to 
achieve a 100% success rate as, to date,  
21 successful exploration and appraisal  
wells have been drilled with all encountering 
hydrocarbons. Further appraisal work on the 
Kingfisher discovery produced some exciting 
results in 2008 with a record production test, 
for any well drilled in Uganda, of 14,364 bopd. 
Additionally, the same three reservoir intervals 
were encountered in all of the wells and, 
significantly, the areal extent of the field  
was increased as oil was found structurally 
higher than anticipated in the Kingfisher-3 
appraisal well.
The Albert Basin will remain a high corporate 
priority in coming years as the recent drilling 
successes have raised the estimated  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05
Drilling operations at Buffalo site,  >
Block 1, Uganda
resources of the basin above the threshold 
required for commercial development. This  
is transformational for Heritage. With a gross 
licence area in Uganda and the DRC in excess 
of 12,000 square kilometres – equivalent to 
approximately 55 North Sea blocks – the 
Albert Basin is now estimated to have 
multi-billion barrel reserve potential. We are 
considering a number of fast-track 
development scenarios for the Albert Basin, 
including the possibility of a phased 
development with first production in 2011 by 
utilising the existing railway network in East 
Africa. We are also considering an export 
pipeline to the coast as well as a scheme to 
service local markets. 
In addition to the Kingfisher drilling activity, 
mapping of recent seismic data has identified  
a number of prospects offshore in Lake Albert 
within the Heritage operated Block 3A, 
including the structurally attractive Pelican 
prospect and the large Crane prospect. An 
offshore drilling programme that will include 
the Crane and Pelican prospects is currently 
expected to begin in the first half of 2010.
Tanzania
Heritage farmed-in to four licence areas in 
Tanzania in mid-2008, with a total area of 
approximately 25,000 square kilometres.  
In early 2009, Heritage completed the 
acquisition of 2D seismic in-fill data on two 
blocks in Tanzania. Future drilling locations  
will be identified once the data has been 
processed and interpreted. 
The Middle East
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq is another 
primary focus area for Heritage, with the 
potential to find multi-billion barrels of  
oil. Based on excellent quality seismic  
data acquired by Heritage during 2008, 
management has confirmed that the Miran 
Block contains two anticlines that have the 
potential to contain billions of barrels of oil in 
place from multiple potential reservoir targets. 
Drilling of the Miran West-1 well began in 
December 2008, a significant accomplishment 
given that Heritage was awarded the licence 
less than 15 months prior, in October 2007. 
In March 2009, we announced drilling of  
the Miran West-1 well had completed and 
reached a total depth of 2,935 metres. The  
well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres, with excellent oil shows in  
the three principal proven reservoir formations 
in the region (the Shiranish, Kometan and 
Qamchuqua). Good quality light sweet oil was 
recovered to surface as part of the drilling 
operations. A series of drill stem tests over a 
gross interval of approximately 500 metres are 
being conducted during April 2009. A further 
announcement will be made when all tests 
have been completed.
The operating environment for oil and gas 
companies in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 
remains relatively stable and secure, and 
Heritage management believes that any 
outstanding issues between the government of 
Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government 
will be resolved satisfactorily. To that end,  
the two parties formed a series of committees 
to resolve issues. There has been considerable 
progress recently with the likelihood that first 
oil from Kurdistan will be exported this year. 
Oman
Following our exceptional success in Uganda 
and very encouraging drilling results in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, we decided to sell 
our non-core 10% interest in Block 8 in Oman 
for $28 million, plus $400,000 in working 
capital adjustments. We believe that greater 
value can be generated by using this cash to 
finance accelerated work programmes in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 06
First Mover Advantage
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Recent drilling successes 
have raised the estimated 
resources of the Albert 
Basin, Uganda, above the 
threshold required for 
commercial development.
Pakistan
In December 2008, Heritage received 
government approval for a farm-in to the 
Zamzama North Block in the Sindh Zone  
(Zone lll) in southern Pakistan. Heritage is the 
operator and was awarded a 48% participating 
interest in the block. This has extended 
Heritage’s operations in Pakistan, which also 
include a 54% interest in, and operatorship of, 
the Sanjawi Block in the Baluchistan Zone 
(Zone II) in Pakistan. This block contains a 
number of large anticlinal structures which 
could be potentially significant drilling targets.
Russia
Development of the Zapadno Chumpasskoye 
Licence in western Siberia, in which Heritage 
holds a 95% equity interest, continued during 
2008. A third exploration and appraisal well 
was completed in the first half of 2008, and 
average daily oil production increased to  
379 bopd in 2008. Peak production of 900 
bopd was achieved but the field was shut-in 
between December 2008 and February  
2009 following a temporary reduction in the 
domestic oil price in Russia. Production has 
since recommenced at a level of approximately 
150 bopd but we expect this to increase over 
the year. 
In summary, Heritage has achieved 
tremendous operating success during 2008 
and early 2009, leading to a world-class oil 
discovery in Uganda and very encouraging 
results from the Miran West-1 well in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is currently 
being tested. We also achieved increases in 
production and expanded our portfolio of 
properties. Looking ahead, we believe we have 
the financial and technical capability, combined 
with the management flexibility, to pursue 
opportunities to enhance the interests of our 
shareholders. We look forward to making 
substantial further progress and increasing 
shareholder value in both the near- and the 
long-term.
I would like to thank our staff, my fellow 
Directors and our shareholders for their 
continuing support.
Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07
Kingfisher-3 drill site, Block 3A,  >
Uganda
Strategy Strengths
The Group aims to continue to generate 
growth in shareholder value by focusing 
on high-impact international plays 
that provide multiple targets with 
the potential to discover substantial 
hydrocarbon reserves. The Group’s 
growth strategy is to acquire and invest 
in exploration and early development 
opportunities throughout the world, with 
a particular emphasis on its core areas 
of Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
To be successful, the Group has 
developed a highly effective network 
of influential industry, political and 
institutional relationships. These enable 
the Group to gain access to a wide 
variety of new oil and gas business 
opportunities.
The Company’s competitive strengths 
include:
Our ability to expand a portfolio of high- >
impact international plays; in 2008  
we extended our portfolio to include 
assets in Tanzania, Mali and Pakistan
Experienced management and  >
technical teams with a track-record 
of finding valuable oil discoveries; we 
announced in January 2009 the world- 
class Buffalo-Giraffe discovery
Our position in the Albert Basin of  >
Uganda is considered by management 
to have the potential to contain over  
two billion barrels of oil reserves
Our demonstrated success as a first- >
mover in acquiring assets in territories 
such as Uganda and the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq
Our proven record of realising value  >
through asset sales; $28 million was 
raised in April 2009 through the sale  
of Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Heritage
The Group aims to 
continue to generate 
growth in shareholder 
value by focusing on high-
impact international plays.  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 08
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Heritage remains 
committed to generating 
shareholder value by 
focusing on high-impact 
exploration.
What, for you, were the highlights  
of 2008?
2008 was a year of tremendous achievements 
for Heritage, both operationally and corporately. 
Operationally, we continued with the 100% 
success rate in Uganda where we discovered 
the Buffalo-Giraffe field which management 
considers to be the largest onshore discovery 
in Sub-Saharan Africa for 20 years. This 
discovery, in our operated Block 1, pushed  
the Albert Basin over the threshold required  
for a commercial development. 
In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq we accelerated 
our work programme and within only 15 
months of signing our licence we commenced 
drilling the prospective Miran West-1 well – a 
remarkable achievement highlighting the 
technical and managerial capabilities of 
Heritage.
Corporately, Heritage listed on the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange in March 2008 
and joined the FTSE 250 Index. This has been 
very advantageous for the Company, increasing 
the visibility of the Company and the liquidity of 
our shares.
How has your strategy evolved over  
the last year?
Heritage remains committed to generating 
shareholder value by focusing on high-impact 
exploration with the potential to discover 
substantial hydrocarbon reserves. Our strategy 
of realising value for shareholders within our 
own portfolio has recently been demonstrated 
by the sale of our Oman holdings for $28 
million. With this asset, Heritage had a minority 
interest in a non-operated licence with 
negligible reserves which was no longer 
considered integral to the portfolio. We believe 
that the proceeds will generate greater value 
through reinvestment in our core activity areas 
of Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
How does the Company engage  
with shareholders?
One of the aims of moving to the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange was to 
enhance the Company’s status and profile 
among European investors and within the 
international oil and gas sector as a whole. 
Communication with shareholders is given  
a high priority and we ensure there is regular 
dialogue with institutional investors, as well as 
general presentations to analysts. As a result 
we have broadened our investor base and 
increased the research coverage, giving 
Heritage an increased profile. We have also 
redesigned our website which is continually 
updated to keep investors informed of  
our activities. We also employed a full  
time investor relations specialist for the  
first time who has coordinated an effective 
investor relations programme.
What values define Heritage?
Heritage has many core values that run 
through all our activities. These include:
respecting the laws and customs of  •	
the countries in which we operate; 
supporting the communities in areas  •	
where we operate; 
promoting long-term relationships with •	
stakeholders; 
encouraging and supporting employees  •	
to play their part in creating a better 
environment; 
motivating staff to retain and attract •	
experienced employees; and
the belief that shareholders’ long-term •	
interests are best served by the pursuit  
of businesses with high standards of 
responsibility. 
What distinguishes Heritage from  
other companies within the sector?
The Company has many competitive  
strengths, including:
experienced management and technical •	
team with a track-record of finding valuable 
oil discoveries;
a geographically diversified portfolio of •	
high-impact exploration plays;
our demonstrated success as a first-mover •	
in being awarded assets in territories such 
as Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq; and
our proven track-record of realising value •	
through asset sales.
What does 2009 hold for Heritage?
2009 will be another exciting year for Heritage 
as we continue with high-impact exploration in 
our focus areas of Uganda and Kurdistan. We 
are planning on returning to Block 1 in Uganda 
later in the year with an exciting exploration 
and appraisal programme in this prolific basin. 
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq will also feature 
prominently in 2009 as we are currently testing 
the Miran West-1 well.
Do you have a message for shareholders?
Exceptional exploration success has begun  
to transform the Company within the last year 
and we have delivered on promises made in 
our Annual Report last year. Namely, we have 
exceeded the volume threshold required to 
justify development in Uganda and we have 
commenced a high-impact drilling campaign  
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Heritage  
has the ability to grow significantly over the  
coming years and we believe that we have the 
management, technical expertise and strategy 
to achieve this. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09
Heritage has the ability  
to grow significantly  
over the coming years. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10
Operations Review: Exploration
Uganda
In 2008 the Buffalo-Giraffe field was discovered – this is the largest  
discovery in Uganda to date Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
Map of licences in Uganda >
 Area Date  Heritage   
Licence (sq km) Awarded Equity Partners Operator
Block 1 3,659 July 2004 50%
1
 Tullow Heritage
Block 3A 2,024 September 2004 50%
1
 Tullow Heritage
1 Third party back-in rights exist which, if exercised fully, could result in a minimum holding of 42.5%.
In 1997, the Group became the first oil and  
gas company to actively explore in Uganda in 
almost 60 years after being awarded a licence 
covering the original Block 3 in the Albert  
Basin of western Uganda. In 2001, the Group 
farmed out 50% of the licence to Energy Africa, 
which was subsequently acquired by Tullow  
Oil plc (“Tullow”). Heritage is one of only two 
international oil companies with licences in the 
vast Albert Basin, which has an area in Uganda 
of over 9,000 square kilometres.
A total of 21 wells have been drilled in the 
Albert Basin since the beginning of 2006 and 
all have found hydrocarbons.
Block 3A
The original Block 3 was reconfigured and 
re-licenced in 2004, as Block 3A, for a term of 
six years. Block 3A is located in the southern 
portion of the Albert Basin and covers an area 
of 2,024 square kilometres. Heritage holds a 
50% interest in Block 3A, is the operator and 
drilled two successful appraisal wells during 
2008 in this block.
The Kingfisher-2 well was drilled to a total 
measured depth of 3,906 metres (3,197 metres 
true vertical depth) in 2008. Three reservoir 
intervals were encountered which had a 
cumulative test rate of 14,364 bopd, surpassing 
the rate from the same three intervals 
encountered in Kingfisher-1A, which flowed at 
a combined rate of 9,773 bopd, in 2007. 
The Kingfisher-3 well, located three kilometres 
south of Kingfisher-2, commenced drilling  
in September 2008. This well was drilled  
to evaluate the south-west portion of the 
Kingfisher structure and encountered a gross 
vertical hydrocarbon bearing interval of 123 
metres, with net vertical pay of 41 metres, 
based on evaluation of the wireline log data. In 
addition to finding oil, the well also confirmed 
that this part of the field was approximately 
100 metres structurally higher than expected. 
The more extensive oil accumulation and the 
greater structural elevation of the reservoir  
in the south-west part of the field gives 
confidence the discovery is larger than initially 
estimated. The Kingfisher-3A sidetrack,  
which was drilled as a development well and 
completed in February 2009, encountered a 
gross vertical oil-bearing interval of 90 metres 
with net vertical oil pay of 22 metres. 
The discovered oil in Block 3A is good quality, 
light (between 30º and 32º API) and sweet  
with a low gas-oil ratio and some associated 
wax. The reservoirs are highly permeable 
sandstones with an estimated permeability  
of up to 3,000 miliDarcies. The same three 
sandstone reservoir intervals were encountered 
in all of the Kingfisher wells highlighting the 
continuity and the large lateral extent of  
the reservoirs. All three Kingfisher wells have 
been suspended as future producers.
Management believes that successful drilling of 
the Kingfisher field has lowered the exploration 
risk of other exploration targets identified within 
Block 3A. These will be explored in a lake 
drilling programme scheduled to commence in 
2010. 550 kilometres of 2D seismic, which was 
acquired in mid-2007, was further interpreted 
during 2008 and identified a number of 
additional prospects in the lake including  
the large Crane prospect. The Front End 
Engineering and Design (“FEED”) study for an 
offshore drilling programme commenced last 
year following completion of feasibility and 
pre-FEED studies and is expected to be 
completed in the first half of 2009.
Block 1
Heritage holds a 50% interest in and is the 
operator of Block 1, which was awarded in 
2004. Block 1 is located at the northern end  
of Lake Albert, and encompasses an area of 
3,659 square kilometres. A successful 2008 
drilling campaign discovered the Warthog 
accumulation and the Buffalo-Giraffe field, 
which is considered by management  
to be the largest onshore oil discovery in 
Sub-Saharan Africa in over 20 years.  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12
Uganda continued
Operations Review: Exploration Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13
A seismic survey comprising approximately 
670 kilometres of 2D data was completed on 
Block 1 in February 2008 which identified 
many encouraging Direct Hydrocarbon 
Indicators (“DHIs”). A three well exploration 
programme commenced in September  
2008 targeting the Warthog, Buffalo and 
Giraffe prospects. 
The Warthog-1 well commenced drilling in 
September 2008 and encountered 46 metres 
of net hydrocarbon pay. Wireline logging  
and formation pressure measurements 
indicated 31 metres of net oil pay in the 
principal oil-bearing section, overlain by  
15 metres of additional net hydrocarbon  
pay comprising, most probably, volatile oil, 
condensate and liquids rich gas. In addition  
to the oil discovered, further potential for oil 
exists in the overlying reservoir section 
downdip of the Warthog well location and 
there is additional potential in the adjacent 
Warthog North prospect.
The Buffalo-1 well commenced drilling in 
November 2008 and encountered 43 metres  
of net hydrocarbon pay with 28 metres of  
net oil pay. In December 2008, the Giraffe-1 
well commenced drilling 5.5 kilometres from 
Buffalo-1 and encountered a gross oil-bearing 
interval of 89 metres with 38 metres of net  
oil pay. 
Pressure and seismic data indicate that the 
Giraffe discovery is structurally connected  
to the Buffalo discovery, creating the Buffalo-
Giraffe field covering approximately 48 square 
kilometres with an oil column of approximately 
140 metres. Based on current mapping, the 
Company’s initial estimate of gross recoverable 
resources for the Buffalo-Giraffe field is over 
350 million barrels. The Buffalo-Giraffe field 
may extend into the Buffalo-East prospect 
which would result in one very large structure, 
covering up to 90 square kilometres. 
All the wells drilled in Block 1 were relatively 
shallow with target depths between 600 and 
920 metres. Downhole pressure testing and 
sampling and the recovery of oil to surface 
have confirmed the presence of moveable  
oil in the Block 1 discoveries. Log interpretation 
and core analysis has confirmed excellent 
reservoir quality with porosities of up to 35%. 
Recent testing of the Kasamene-1 well, close 
by in neighbouring Block 2, gives further 
confidence as a maximum flow rate of 3,500 
bopd was achieved. All three wells in Block 1 
have been suspended as future producers. 
Management estimates that there is potentially 
a billion barrels of oil recoverable from Block 1 
as many other prospects and leads have  
been mapped and exploration risk has been 
significantly reduced by the recent drilling 
success. All these prospects and leads are 
characterised by encouraging seismic DHIs 
similar to those seen over the successful 
Warthog, Buffalo and Giraffe discoveries. 
Heritage plans to undertake further drilling  
in Block 1 in the second half of 2009. 
Potential Development
The exceptional results from recent drilling 
programmes in Blocks 1 and 3A mean that 
management now believes that a gross 
recoverable resource of approximately 600 
million barrels has been proved up. This is 
significantly greater than the threshold 
considered necessary for major infrastructure 
development in the Albert Basin. Other  
leads and prospects have the potential to 
significantly add to these estimates.
Development studies are currently being 
undertaken to optimise and fast-track 
development of the basin. Options include 
using the existing rail infrastructure which will 
enable commercial production to begin as 
early as 2011, as well as an export pipeline to 
the coast. It is planned to present these plans 
to the government of Uganda in late 2009.  
The costs of a pipeline will be significant, but 
Heritage has been approached by a number  
of parties who are interested in financing  
and building the pipeline, as well as other 
infrastructure. Discussions with these parties 
are ongoing.  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 14
Operations Review: Exploration
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Heritage drilled its first well in Kurdistan in 2008, less than 15 months after being 
awarded the licence Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15
Map showing the Miran Block in  >
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
 Area Date Heritage   
Licence  (sq km) Awarded Equity Partners Operator
Miran 1,015 October 2007 75%
1, 2
 Genel Energy Heritage
1 Third party back-in rights exist which, if exercised fully, could result in a minimum holding of 56.25%
2 Heritage equity reduced from 100% following exercise of back-in rights in April 2009
In October 2007, the Group signed a PSC with 
the Kurdistan Regional Government (“KRG”) 
covering the Miran Block in the southern part 
of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq is an autonomous northern 
region in federal Iraq bordering Syria, Iran and 
Turkey. Since the passing of the Petroleum 
Law in Kurdistan, in August 2007, the KRG has 
awarded 21 PSCs with Heritage’s PSC being 
the second awarded. Being an early entrant  
in this region, the Group is strongly positioned 
to benefit from development of this significant 
hydrocarbon-prone region especially as the 
already-stable security situation continues to 
improve. Other oil and gas companies have 
been operating in this area for several years 
without major interruption. There is believed to 
be huge undiscovered potential in the region, 
estimated, by the US Geological Survey,  
at approximately 40 billion barrels of oil and  
60 trillion cubic feet of gas. Additionally, it has 
been reported that 80% of all wells drilled in 
Iraq have encountered hydrocarbons.
The Miran Block covers an area of 1,015 
square kilometres and is located approximately 
65 kilometres from the Kirkuk oil field where 
remaining reserves are estimated to be in 
excess of 10 billion barrels. The Miran 
structures are on trend with the Taq Taq field. 
In the second quarter of 2008, Heritage 
acquired 332 kilometres of good quality  
2D seismic which showed two very large 
anticlines, Miran West and Miran East, which 
together cover an area of approximately 330 
square kilometres. The seismic data also 
indicates that the reservoirs are fractured in a 
radial pattern which appears similar to the 
neighbouring Taq Taq field.
After interpreting the seismic data, Heritage 
accelerated the Miran work programme and 
contracted a rig in October 2008. Drilling 
commenced on Miran West-1 in December 
2008, targeting the three main known 
producing reservoirs in the region; Shiranish, 
Kometan and Qamchuqua. Both the Miran 
structures have the potential to contain billions 
of barrels of oil from multiple potential zones. 
Heritage has demonstrated its operational 
efficiency and commitment to the region  
by completing the seismic survey and 
commencing a drilling programme less than  
15 months after the licence was awarded for  
a previously unexplored block.
In March 2009, the Company announced that 
drilling of the Miran West-1 well had been 
completed and reached a total depth of 2,935 
metres. The well encountered oil shows over 
an interval of 1,100 metres, with excellent oil 
shows in the three principal proven reservoir 
formations in the region. Good quality, light 
sweet oil was recovered to surface. We are  
in the process of undertaking a series of  
drill stem tests over a gross interval of 
approximately 500 metres. 
Based on the encouraging seismic evaluation 
and drilling results of the Miran West-1 well, 
Heritage is formulating plans for further drilling 
on Miran in 2009 in order to plan for a fast 
track development. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 16
Operations Review: Exploration
Tanzania
Seismic data, combined with encouraging hydrocarbon shows, identify the licences 
as being within a highly desirable exploration province Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17
Map showing licences in Tanzania >
 Area Date Heritage   
Licence (sq km) Awarded Equity Partners Operator
Kisangire 7,280 May 2005 55% Dominion Heritage
Lukuliro 8,828 May 2005 55% Dominion Heritage
Kimbiji 4,298 September 2006 70% Petrodel Heritage
1
Latham 5,056 September 2006 29.9% Petrodel Heritage
1
1 Heritage is operator of the work programme.
Heritage farmed-in to four blocks in Tanzania in 
East Africa in 2008 and has already completed 
two seismic acquisition programmes. 
In April 2008, Heritage entered into farm-in 
agreements on two licences in eastern 
Tanzania, comprising four blocks (Latham, 
Kimbiji, Kisangire and Lukuliro Areas). 
Government approval for the farm-ins was 
received in the second half of 2008. The four 
blocks are located in eastern Tanzania and 
cover a total area of approximately 25,000 
square kilometres. The Kimbiji and Latham 
Areas cover approximately 9,300 square 
kilometres and are held under one Production 
Sharing Agreement (“PSA”), whilst the 
Kisangire and Lukuliro Areas cover 
approximately 16,100 square kilometres and 
are held under a second PSA.
All four licences are close to the Mkuranga-1 
gas discovery which was drilled in 2007 and 
reportedly flowed gas at a rate of 20 mmcf/d 
from an Upper Cretaceous reservoir. This well 
is located approximately 25 kilometres to the 
east of the Kisangire licence area. The large 
Songo Songo producing gas field is located  
to the south-east of the licence areas. The 
Wingayongo oil seep is present in the Kisangire 
licence area, indicating the presence in the 
region of a working hydrocarbon system that 
has generated both oil and gas. Previous 
seismic data acquired in these licence areas, 
combined with encouraging hydrocarbon 
shows in wells drilled in the licences, identify 
them as highly desirable exploration licences. 
Latham and Kimbiji
The Latham and Kimbiji licence areas, covering 
5,056 square kilometres and 4,298 square 
kilometres respectively, encompass onshore 
(1,882 square kilometres), near shore (2,981 
square kilometres) and deep water (4,491 
square kilometres) areas. The PSA was 
awarded to Petrodel Resources Ltd (“Petrodel”) 
by the Tanzanian government in September 
2006 with an exploration period of four years, 
followed by two extensions of four years and 
three years, respectively, with the right to a 
development licence with a term of 25 years.
Under the terms of the farm-in agreement with 
Petrodel, the Group has the right to earn a 
70% working interest in the Kimbiji licence 
area, and a 29.9% working interest in the 
Latham licence area, by funding all seismic 
costs of the required work programmes on 
both blocks, comprising the acquisition of both 
2D and 3D seismic data, and the drilling of two 
exploration wells within the Kimbiji Area. 
Heritage is initially acting as contract operator, 
being responsible for all technical and 
operational aspects of the work programmes, 
and will be appointed operator upon drilling the 
second exploration well in the Kimbiji Area.
Kisangire and Lukuliro
The onshore Kisangire and Lukuliro licences 
cover an area of 7,280 square kilometres and 
8,828 square kilometres, respectively. The PSA 
was originally awarded to Dominion Oil & Gas 
Limited (“Dominion”) in May 2005, with an 
exploration period of four years. The Company 
has applied for an extension to the initial 
exploration period, which the government has 
advised it is favourably considering. This is 
followed by one extension of four years, a 
further extension of three years and the right to 
a development licence with a term of 25 years.
Under the terms of the farm-in agreement with 
Dominion, the Group has the right to initially 
earn a working interest of 55% in both the 
Kisangire and Lukuliro licences. In order to 
earn the working interests, Heritage will fund all 
costs to acquire a minimum of 150 kilometres 
of 2D seismic data and the costs of the first 
commitment well. The Group also has an 
option to earn an additional working interest  
of 15%, thereby increasing its participating 
interest to 70%, by funding 87.5% of the costs 
of a second well. 
The acquisition of 198 kilometres of 2D seismic 
commenced in the Kisangire licence area in 
September 2008 and was followed by the 
acquisition of 207 kilometres of 2D seismic in 
the onshore part of the Kimbiji licence area. 
The data is currently being analysed after 
which drilling locations will be determined. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 18
Operations Review: Exploration
Democratic Republic of Congo
Blocks I and II cover more than 6,000 square kilometres in the highly prospective 
Albert Basin Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19
 Area  Date Heritage 
Licence  (sq km)  Awarded Equity Partners
Block I 3,825 Signed July 2006  39.5% Tullow Oil
1
, 
  (awaiting presidential decree)  COHYDRO
Block II 2,634 Signed July 2006  39.5% Tullow Oil
1
, 
  (awaiting presidential decree)  COHYDRO
1 Operator
In addition to its licences in Uganda, Heritage 
holds a 39.5% non-operated interest in two 
blocks in the Albert Basin on the DRC side of 
Lake Albert – Blocks I and II. These blocks, 
which include the entire DRC side of Lake 
Albert, cover more than 6,000 square 
kilometres and are adjacent to Block 3A and 
Block 2 in Uganda. The combination of 
licences in both the DRC and Uganda gives 
the Group a very strong acreage position in 
this highly prolific sedimentary basin. 
In 2006 the Group, with its partners in these 
licences, executed a PSA with the government 
of the DRC. The initial exploration term is five 
years, during which seismic data will be 
acquired and exploration wells drilled. However, 
work will only commence following the receipt 
of a Presidential Decree, the timing of which  
is still uncertain. The validity of the licences 
was disputed during 2008, however, Heritage 
and the operator are working closely with the 
government of the DRC and both continue  
to be confident that title will be confirmed.
Given the proximity of the DRC licences to  
the Ugandan licences in the Albert Basin, 
management anticipates being able to  
realise cost benefits in operating, capital  
and infrastructure development costs.
Map showing licences in the  >
Democratic Republic of Congo Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 20
Operations Review: Exploration
Mali
The two licences have a gross area of over 72,000 square kilometres Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21
Map showing licence areas in Mali >
Heritage announced in March 2008 that the 
government of Mali had approved a farm-in  
on two exploration licences. The two licences 
have a gross area of over 72,000 square 
kilometres. Heritage has been appointed 
operator with the right to earn a 75% working 
interest in each of Blocks 7 and 11 by financing 
100% of the minimum work programme of 
seismic acquisition and the drilling of one 
exploration well. The Group’s partner is Mali  
Oil Development SARL, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Centric Energy Corporation.
Blocks 7 and 11 are located in the east of  
the country and include the Gao Graben, a 
Mesozoic basin that management considers 
geologically similar to other Mesozoic 
interior-rift basins within North Africa, such  
as the Muglad Basin of Sudan and the  
Doba Basin of Chad. The Graben has been 
delineated by various surveys conducted  
since the early 1970s, including over 2,000 
kilometres of 2D seismic and a comprehensive 
gravity and magnetic survey. The data shows 
the presence of tilted fault-blocks and indicate 
the possible presence of up to 4,000 metres  
of sediments above basement.
Previous drilling in the Gao Graben has 
encountered oil and gas shows. The Tin 
Bergoui water well, which lies approximately 
30 kilometres to the west of Block 11,  
was drilled to a depth of 350 metres and 
encountered oil and gas shows in a number  
of horizons, indicating the potential for a 
working hydrocarbon system. 
A two year extension to the licences on both 
blocks was awarded in January 2009 giving 
the Group a better opportunity to refine the 
work programme. Over the next couple  
of years, the Group will proceed with a 
programme of seismic acquisition and 
reprocessing to support the selection of  
initial drilling locations.
 Area Date Heritage   
Licence (sq km) Awarded Equity Partners Operator
Block 7 39,804 July 2006  75% Centric Energy Heritage
Block 11 32,810 June 2005 75% Centric Energy Heritage Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 22
Operations Review: Exploration
Malta
Areas 2 and 7 are considered, by management, to be similar play types to 
producing fields in the western Mediterranean Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23
Map showing licence areas in Malta >
In December 2007, the Group entered into a 
PSC with the Maltese government for a 100% 
interest in Areas 2 and 7 in the south-eastern 
offshore region of Malta. The licences cover 
almost 18,000 square kilometres and are 
situated approximately 80 kilometres and 140 
kilometres, for Area 2 and Area 7, respectively, 
from the south eastern Maltese coast in water 
depths of approximately 300 metres. The  
two areas are considered, by management,  
to be similar play types to producing fields  
in the western Mediterranean. Initial seismic 
interpretation, based on the current extensive 
data set of almost 3,500 kilometres acquired  
in 2000, indicates the presence of a variety  
of potential prospects. Primary targets are 
Lower Eocene and Cretaceous carbonates 
that are already recognised as major 
hydrocarbon producing plays in the western 
part of the Mediterranean. 
  Area  Date Heritage 
Licence  (sq km)  Awarded Equity
Area 2  9,190  December 2007 100%
Area 7  8,778  December 2007 100%
The licences are under-explored with only one 
well previously drilled in Area 2; the Medina 
Bank 1 in 1980. The well was drilled to a  
depth of 1,225 metres, but failed to reach  
the target horizons, estimated to be between 
1,500 and 4,500 metres. The well did, 
however, encounter gas shows in porous, 
fractured carbonates.
Heritage has agreed to a minimum contractual 
work programme comprising the acquisition  
of a further 1,000 kilometres of seismic data 
and the drilling of an exploration well. The  
work programme has commenced with the 
reinterpretation of existing seismic which will 
be followed by the acquisition of a 2D seismic 
programme in either 2009 or 2010. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 24
Operations Review: Exploration
Pakistan
The licences cover a total area of 3,487 square kilometres Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25
Map showing licence areas   >
in Pakistan
Pakistan covers approximately 800,000 square 
kilometres and has proved reserves reported 
to be in the region of 289 million barrels of oil 
and 760 billion cubic metres of gas.
The Sanjawi Block (number 3067–2) in Zone II 
(Baluchistan) was awarded in November 2007. 
Heritage has a 54% interest and is the 
operator. This onshore exploration licence 
covers a gross area of 2,258 square kilometres 
and encompasses a variety of terrains ranging 
from relatively flat desert and cultivated valley 
floors to a series of rugged hills. The block  
is considered highly prospective due to the 
presence of oil seeps to the south of the 
licence. The block is dominated by a series  
of broad east-west trending surface features 
including the Dabbar and Warkan Shah 
anticlines. These are large structures with the 
Dabbar anticline alone being some 300 square 
kilometres in area.
In December 2008, Heritage obtained a 48% 
interest in the Zamzama North Block (number 
2667–8) and has been appointed operator.  
The Zamzama North Block is located in the 
south of Pakistan in the western part of  
Sindh Province approximately 200 kilometres 
northwest of Hyderabad and has an area of 
1,229 square kilometres. The block is situated 
only 10 kilometres from the eastern flanks of 
the Kirthar Fold Belt and forms part of the 
associated compressive foreland. The eastern 
portion of the block is composed of the 
riverine, rich, flat, low lying and intensively 
cultivated flood plain of the Southern Indus 
Basin, whilst the western area is uncultivated 
and covered by the low, flat alluvial outwash 
from the Kirthar Hills. The current seismic 
database used to map the Zamzama North 
Block comprises some 750 kilometres of fair  
to good quality, recent 2D seismic.
 Area Date Heritage   
Licence (sq km) Awarded Equity Partners Operator
Sanjawi Permit 2,258 November  54% Hycarbex Heritage 
  2007   American Energy, 
    Sprint Energy, 
    Trakker Energy 
Zamzama North 1,229 December 48% Hycarbex  Heritage 
  2008  American Energy, 
    Sprint Energy, 
    Trakker Energy 
Any discovered hydrocarbons could be readily 
connected to the existing infrastructure as  
the main Sui-Karachi pipeline is situated only 
about six kilometres to the east of the block. 
To the immediate south of this block is the 
large Zamzama gas field.
Initial interpretation of seismic has identified 
several prospects and leads. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 26
Operations Review: Production
Russia
This licence is in the hydrocarbon-rich Western Siberian province of Khanty-
Mansiysk, accessible to existing infrastructure and facilities Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27
Map showing licence area   >
in Russia
   Net Working  Net Net 
   Interest Entitlement  Present 
   Reserves Interest Value 
   MMboe MMboe $ millions
Proved   23.1 23.1 20.7
Probable Additional   37.3 37.3 214.2
Total Proved + Probable   60.4 60.4 234.9
Zapadno Chumpasskoye, located within the 
Western Siberian province of Russia which 
accounts for approximately 60% of Russia’s 
total crude oil production, is an example of  
the Group’s strategy of acquiring assets in 
both highly-prospective and established 
hydrocarbon-prone parts of the world.
Since 2005, the Group has held a 95% equity 
interest in ChumpassNefteDobycha Limited,  
a Russian Company whose sole asset is  
the Zapadno Chumpasskoye Licence. This 
licence, which expires in 2024, is in the 
hydrocarbon-rich Western Siberian province  
of Khanty-Mansiysk, approximately 100 
kilometres from the city of Nizhnevartovsk and 
in the area of the region’s prolific Samotlor oil 
field, which makes it accessible to existing 
production infrastructure and facilities. The 
licence covers an area of about 200 square 
kilometres and contains the Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye field, discovered in 1997. A 
total of nine wells were drilled on the licence 
prior to 2005, and the Group has drilled a 
further three wells. The producing reservoir  
is a late Jurassic sandstone, at a depth of 
approximately 2,700 metres, and is the same 
producing horizon present in a number of 
neighbouring fields.
Since 2006 the Company has acquired 200 
kilometres of seismic data, began constructing 
pilot production facilities and re-entered 
existing well #226. Production facilities were 
commissioned and production commenced  
in May 2007. Three additional exploration and 
appraisal wells were drilled by Heritage and  
the third well was completed in the first half of 
2008. A fracture stimulation was completed 
and artificial lift installed on one well. In 2008, 
production peaked at over 900 bopd and 
averaged 379 bopd which was an increase  
of 80% on 2007 levels. The field was shut-in 
between December 2008 and February  
2009 following a temporary reduction in the 
domestic oil price in Russia. The crude is light 
and sweet, 42º API crude oil, with moderate 
gas-to-oil ratios.
RPS Energy independently estimated that 
Zapadno Chumpasskoye contains proved plus 
probable reserves of 60.4 million barrels of oil, 
net to the Group, with a Net Present Value, 
discounted at 10%, of $234.9 million as at  
31 December 2007. During 2008 another 
independent review was undertaken by 
Sibtechneft, a noted Russian reserves agency, 
as a requirement of the licence following 
completion of work commitments. The C1+C2 
reserves were determined to be closely in line 
with those estimated by RPS Energy; 63.4 
million barrels gross or 60.2 million barrels  
net to the Group. The review was accepted  
by the Ministry of Natural Resources of the 
Russian Federation in November 2008. 
Independent Reserves at Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye 
RPS Energy, an independent geoscience 
consultancy, estimated Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye’s net working and entitlement 
interest reserves and value to the Group as at 
31 December 2007, using money of the day 
prices, discounted at 10%, to be as follows: Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 28
Committed to 
Generating Value
Financial Review
Corporate Performance
Production
Average daily production increased by 26% 
from 356 bopd in 2007 to 450 bopd in 2008. 
The increase in production was attributable  
to higher levels of production from Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye in Russia despite being shut-in 
during December 2008. This was offset by a 
51% decline in production of condensate and 
LPG in Oman due to the temporary cessation of 
production in the second half of 2008. This was 
in part due to upgrading the Bukha platform to 
handle new production from the West Bukha 
field. The West Bukha field commenced 
production in February 2009. 
Revenue
Petroleum and natural gas revenue increased 
by 38% to $5.1 million, due to higher sales 
volumes in Russia offset by lower condensate 
and LPG sales from the Bukha field in Oman. 
Condensate sales from the Bukha field in 
Oman decreased by 38% to $1 million due to 
the shut-in of Bukha production in the second 
half of 2008. Revenue from oil production in 
Russia increased by 124% to $3.8 million.
The average realised price of $32.1 per barrel in 
2008 was 5% higher than in 2007, attributable  
to higher average commodity prices in Russia, 
offset by lower average condensate and LPG 
sales prices in Oman. 
Operating Results
Petroleum and natural gas operating costs 
increased by 22% to $2.3 million in 2008, due 
to almost a full year of production in Russia 
compared to only seven and a half months of 
production in 2007. The increase is in line with 
the higher sales volumes but additionally some 
volume efficiencies were achieved. Average 
operating costs per barrel sold declined by 
$0.69 to $14.18 in 2008, compared to $14.87 
in 2007. 
Production tax in Russia increased from  
$1.1 million in 2007 to $2.3 million in 2008.  
This increase was due to an increase in 
volumes of oil production in Russia and  
higher average commodity prices in 2008  
used in the calculation of production tax.
Paul Atherton  
Chief Financial Officer
Selected Operational and Financial Data 
 
   2008 2007 Change
Production  bopd 450 356 26%
Sales volume  bopd 435 333 31%
Average realised price  $/bbl 32.1 30.5 5%
Petroleum and natural gas revenue $ million 5.1 3.7 38%
Net loss  $ million (41.3) (83.2) 50%
Net loss per share – basic and diluted $ (0.16) (0.37) 57%
Total cash capital expenditures $ million (103.2)  (75.3)  
Year end cash balance  $ million 90.6 230.1  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29
General and administrative expenses 
decreased from $41.3 million in 2007  
to $30.7 million in 2008, due principally to 
lower non-cash share-based compensation 
expenses arising from stock options granted or 
approved in 2007. General and administrative 
expenses in 2008 were also inflated by one- 
off expenses of $9.7 million relating to the 
corporate reorganisation and subsequent 
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
If share-based compensation and the one-off 
corporate reorganisation and subsequent 
listing expenses are excluded, net general  
and administrative expenses increased from 
$12.2 million in 2007 to $13.6 million in 2008. 
This 11% increase resulted from the Group 
employing additional staff and incurring 
increased expenses to support higher levels of 
exploration and development activities in the 
Group’s activity areas. 
In 2008, the Group capitalised $6.3 million (2007 
– $10.3 million) of directly attributable general and 
administrative costs relating to exploration and 
development activities, including stock-based 
compensation of $4.6 million (2007 – $9.0 million).
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation 
expenses increased by 24% to $2.3 million in 
2008, primarily due to higher oil and liquids 
sales volumes.
Exploration expenditures expensed and not 
capitalised in the year decreased by 85% from 
$5.4 million in 2007 to $0.8 million in 2008. 
Exploration expenditures in 2008 related 
principally to potential new ventures in Russia 
($0.3 million) and activities in Tanzania ($0.2 
million). Exploration expenditures in 2007 
related mainly to activities in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq ($2.3 million) and potential new 
ventures in Russia ($1.5 million).
In 2008, the Group recognised an impairment 
write-down of property, plant and equipment 
of $4 million (2007 – $1.8 million) comprised  
of two elements; the disposal of the Oman 
holdings and the write-down of a drilling rig. 
Subsequent to year end, the entire share 
capital of the Oman holdings was sold for $28 
million in cash and a working capital 
adjustment of approximately $0.4 million. The 
Group wrote down the carrying value of 
interest in Oman to its year end fair value 
resulting in a charge of $3.2 million. The 
carrying value of the Group’s 50% interest in a 
drilling rig was written down to nil, resulting in a 
charge of $0.7 million (2007 – $1.8 million).
In 2008, interest income was $4.0 million (2007 
– $4.0 million). Cash and cash equivalents are 
typically held in interest bearing treasury 
accounts. Cash generating this income was 
raised by a private placement of shares for 
gross proceeds of $186.4 million (Cdn$181.5 
million) in November 2007 and the issue of 
$165 million of 8% unsecured convertible 
bonds in February 2007.
Convertible bonds are separated into liability 
and derivative liability components (being  
the bondholders’ conversion option) and  
each component is recognised separately.  
The change in the fair value of the convertible 
bonds’ conversion options, which is primarily 
due to the performance of Heritage’s share 
price, resulted in a gain of $11 million in 2008 
compared to a loss of $21.3 million in 2007.
Other finance costs decreased from $12.0 
million in 2007 to $11.3 million in 2008. These 
costs are mainly comprised of interest and 
accretion expenses relating to the issue of 
$165 million of 8% unsecured convertible 
bonds in February 2007.
The Group had foreign exchange losses  
of $5.6 million in 2008, primarily related to  
an intercompany US dollar denominated  
loan provided by the Group to the Russian 
subsidiary for the development of Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye. The revaluation of this loan  
in Russian roubles (the functional currency of 
the Russian subsidiary) created the foreign 
exchange loss due to the weakening of the 
Russian rouble against the US dollar during 
2008. In accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy, the revaluation loss was 
recognised in the financial statements of the 
Russian subsidiary in Russian roubles and 
translated into US dollars at consolidation and 
recognised in the income statement.
Heritage recognised an unrealised loss of $1.7 
million in 2008 (2007 – $0.9 million gain), in the 
fair value of its investment in Afren Plc (“Afren”) 
warrants. The gain or loss is determined by  
the performance of the share price of Afren. 
Heritage holds 1,500,000 warrants in Afren 
with an exercise price of £0.60 per warrant, 
received as partial consideration from the  
sale of Heritage Congo in 2006. The warrants  
have a term until 22 December 2011. At  
31 December 2008, Afren’s share price was 
£0.26 per share.
Heritage’s net loss in 2008 was $41.3 million, 
compared to $83.2 million in 2007. The 
adjusted net loss in 2008 was $23.7 million 
compared to $29.7 million in the previous  
year if certain non-cash items (share-based 
compensation expense, gain/loss on derivative 
financial liability, property, plant and equipment 
impairment write-down, foreign exchange loss/
gain and unrealised loss/gain on revaluation of 
Afren warrants) and the one-off reorganisation 
costs are excluded. In 2008 the basic and 
diluted loss per share was $0.16, compared  
to basic and diluted loss per share of $0.37  
in 2007.
Work programmes 
continued to be 
accelerated in Uganda 
with five exploration  
wells drilled. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 30
Financial Review continued
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditures
Cash used in operating activities was $32.8 
million in 2008 compared to $2.5 million in 2007. 
Total cash capital expenditures in 2008 were 
$103.2 million compared to $75.3 million in 2007 . 
The following work was undertaken in 2008:
Work programmes continued to be •	
accelerated in Uganda with five exploration 
wells drilled at a total net cost of approximately 
$45.3 million ($8.8 million in 2007);
The successful Kingfisher-2 and -3 appraisal •	
wells were drilled in Block 3A, Uganda, with 
the successful Kingfisher-3A sidetracked 
over the year end and completed in  
February 2009;
A three well exploration programme was •	
undertaken in Block 1, Uganda. The 
Warthog-1 well spud on 30 September 
2008, followed by the Buffalo-1 well in 
December 2008 and the Giraffe-1 well at 
the end of December. The programme was 
completed in January 2009 and all three 
wells discovered oil; 
A 2D seismic programme of approximately •	
330 kilometres was acquired over the  
Miran Block, in the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq, between April and June 2008 and  
the Miran West-1 exploration well spud  
on 22 December 2008; 
Development of the West Bukha field in •	
Oman continued. Production commenced 
in February 2009 at a rate of 15,000 boepd. 
The West Bukha-3 development well was 
drilled in 2008, the existing West Bukha-2 
well was deepened, the platform was 
installed and the sub-sea pipeline 
completed;
The drilling of Heritage’s third exploration and •	
appraisal well in the Zapadno Chumpasskoye 
field in Russia was completed in the first half 
of 2008. This well was brought into 
production later in the year. Production in 
Russia increased to a peak of 900 bopd and 
averaged 379 bopd for the year; and
Heritage farmed-in to two licences, covering •	
four exploration blocks, in Tanzania in 2008. 
Heritage commenced acquiring 2D seismic 
in the Kimbiji and Kisangire blocks in 
September 2008 and the programmes were 
completed in February 2009. The data is 
currently being processed.
The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
during 2008 was $139.5 million for a year end 
cash balance of $90.6 million.
Financial Position
Liquidity
At 31 December 2008, Heritage had a working 
capital surplus of $43.2 million, including cash 
and cash equivalents of $90.6 million. As for 
most oil and gas exploration companies, 
Heritage raises financing for its activities from 
time to time using a variety of sources. Based 
on its current plans and knowledge and its 
projected capital expenditure and operating 
cash requirements, the Group has sufficient 
cash to finance its current plans for at least  
12 months from the date of approval of the 
financial statements, but further financings are 
likely to be required to meet expenditures 
planned for the second half of 2010. Sources 
of funding for future exploration and 
development programmes will be derived from, 
inter alia, new credit facilities, reinvesting funds 
from operations, using existing treasury 
resources, disposal proceeds from the sale of 
non-core assets, such as the sale of the 
Company’s holdings in Oman in 2009, 
farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, 
issuing debt and additional equity. Accordingly 
the Group has a number of different sources  
of finance available and the Directors are 
confident that additional finance will be raised 
as and when needed. In addition, development 
of the Group’s successful exploration projects 
may be financed separately. 
Capital Structure
Heritage’s financial strategy has been to fund 
its capital expenditure programmes and any 
potential acquisitions by selling non-core 
Production in Russia 
peaked at 900 bopd and 
averaged 379 bopd for  
the year.
Miran Block in the Kurdistan Region   >
of Iraq Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31
assets, reinvesting funds from operations, 
using existing treasury resources, finding  
new credit facilities and, when considered 
appropriate, either issuing unsecured 
convertible bonds or equity. Heritage raised 
cash of over $350 million in 2007. $165 million 
was raised in February 2007 by the issue of 8% 
unsecured convertible bonds, of which $82.5 
million plus interest was used to redeem  
existing 10% convertible bonds and the 
remainder was available for general corporate 
funding purposes. Gross proceeds of $186.4 
million (Cdn$181.5 million) were received in 
November 2007 from an issue of 3,000,000 
Common Shares by Heritage Oil Corporation 
(“HOC”) at a price of Cdn$60.50 per share.  
In October 2007, Heritage received a loan of 
$9.5 million to refinance the acquisition of a 
corporate jet. Interest on the loan is at a rate of 
London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 
1.6%. In January 2005, the Company received 
a sterling denominated loan of £4.5 million to 
refinance the acquisition of a corporate office. 
Interest on the loan is fixed at 6.515% for the 
first five years and is then variable at a rate of 
LIBOR plus 1.35%. Heritage had net debt  
of $146.8 million and gearing of 47% at 
31 December 2008 compared with net cash of 
$13.7 million and nil gearing at 31 December 
2007. Net debt and gearing are defined in note 
3b to the financial statements on page 65.
Important Events Since the Year End
Following a strategic review the entire share 
capital of Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary that owned a 10% 
working interest in Block 8, Oman, was sold  
to RAK Petroleum for $28 million, plus $0.4 
million in working capital adjustments, on  
7 April 2009.
In April 2009, in accordance with the option 
outlined in the PSC in the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq the KRG nominated a third party 
participant in the Miran Licence. Additionally, 
the KRG has released the Company from the 
obligation to build a refinery in exchange for 
making payments totalling $35 million from 
future oil and gas sales from the licence.  
The minimum financial commitment for the 
Company for building the refinery was $140 
million. The Company remains the operator 
with a 75% working interest in the Miran 
Licence and will receive the pro-rata share of 
25% of all past work programme expenditures. 
The transaction was completed upon the 
receipt of approximately $6.7 million in costs 
incurred by the Company to 31 January 2009. 
The third party participant is responsible for 
funding its share of all work programme 
expenditures. 
The Group is not required to obtain a reserve 
report annually or to publish reserves data 
under the listing rules. No reserves report  
at 31 December 2008 was obtained as the 
Group’s previous independent reserves  
report effective at 31 December 2007 is not 
considered to have changed significantly  
due to the relatively small production during 
2008. Additionally, the Group was undertaking 
significant work programmes in Uganda and 
Kurdistan at the year end, which would not have 
been incorporated in a report at that date. 
Management is planning to update the reserve 
report in the second half of 2009 when the 
results from the recent drilling programmes in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq have 
been completed and results analysed and 
interpreted.
Risk and Internal Controls 
Primary Risks and Uncertainties Facing 
the Business
The primary risks and uncertainties facing the 
business which could have a material adverse 
impact on the Group include:
Exploration and development expenditure •	
and success rates – the Company has 
experienced management and technical 
teams with a track-record of finding 
attractive oil discoveries and has a 
diversified portfolio of exploration, 
development and production assets;
Factors associated with operating in •	
developing countries, political and 
regulatory instability – the Company 
maintains close contact with governments 
in the areas within which it operates and 
where appropriate gets involved in 
community projects;
Heritage cannot completely protect itself •	
against title disputes – in many of the 
countries in which the Group operates, land 
title systems are not developed to the extent 
found in many industrialised countries. 
Notwithstanding potential challenges in  
the DRC, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and 
Malta, the Group believes that it has good 
title to its oil and gas properties. However,  
it cannot control or completely protect  
itself against the risk of title disputes or 
challenges and there can be no assurance 
that claims or challenges by third parties 
against the Group’s properties will not be 
asserted at a future date;
Oil and gas sales volumes and prices – •	
whilst not under the direct control of the 
Company a material movement could 
impact on the Group;
Loss of key employees – remuneration •	
packages are regularly reviewed to ensure 
key executives and senior management  
are properly remunerated; and
Generally, it is the Company’s policy to •	
conduct and manage its business in US 
dollars, which is its reporting currency. 
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries  
are primarily held in US dollars but small 
amounts may be held in other currencies  
in order to meet immediate operating or 
administrative expenses or to comply with 
local currency regulations.
The Board will continue to review its approach 
to commodity prices, interest rates and 
currency fluctuations in light of the Company’s 
future capital commitments and ongoing 
obligations. Heritage may use derivative 
instruments to mitigate against its exposure  
to volatility in oil prices and foreign currency 
movements. In 2007 and 2008 the Group  
did not enter into any hedging arrangements.
There is further information on the risks facing 
the Company in the Directors’ Report on  
pages 47 to 50 and also in note 3 of the 
financial statements on pages 64 and 65.
Internal Controls
A system of internal controls was designed and 
tailored to ensure key risks are appropriately 
addressed and to provide assurance regarding  
the reliability of financial reporting and preparation 
of financial statements. Risk and internal controls 
are continually assessed. One possible weakness 
has been identified, concerning accounting for 
complex transactions, although the Company 
seeks third party advice to mitigate against  
this weakness. 
As part of the Company’s internal controls, any 
transactions with related parties are identified, 
scrutinised and appropriately disclosed in the 
financial statements. 
Heritage maintains insurance policies in 
accordance with industry standards. Heritage 
believes that the level of insurance cover it 
maintains is adequate based on various factors 
such as the cost of the policies, industry 
standard practice and the risks associated 
with the exploration and development of oil 
and gas properties in the countries in which  
it operates. Heritage does not insure against 
political risk and, therefore, provides 
shareholders with full exposure to the risks  
and rewards of investing in its territories.
Heritage maintains a detailed financial model 
which allows the Company to plan future 
operating and capital activities in the most 
efficient manner. 
Paul Atherton
Chief Financial Officer Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 32
Corporate Social Responsibility
Heritage has always been committed to 
responsible and respectful conduct towards 
the diverse communities affected by our 
activities. Heritage’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) encompasses the 
management of relationships with 
shareholders, employees, contractors and  
most importantly the communities in areas 
where we work, together with the impact on 
society and the environment, especially where 
we are the operator. We recognise we have 
specific responsibilities in each of these areas 
and consider adherence to CSR values to be  
a key factor in securing long-term success.
Heritage today faces a wide range of both 
opportunities and challenges in the area of 
CSR. This is particularly so given the nature  
of the industry and the geographic location  
of our operations, many of which are in 
countries with complex social, political and 
economic challenges and/or particular 
environmental sensitivities.
Heritage’s objective is to minimise our  
impact on the environment and to support 
development in local communities. We 
recognise the importance of engaging with 
local stakeholders and take seriously their 
concerns regarding oil and gas development. 
Heritage believes that by working closely with 
our host communities we are better enabled to 
meet potential challenges. Heritage works with 
the communities within which we operate to 
ensure their needs are fully considered when 
projects are being planned. 
Effective management of CSR allows Heritage 
to identify potential risks and respond to areas 
of performance where improvement is needed. 
Effective CSR can help in attracting and 
retaining the best staff, making us a partner  
of choice and realising value for shareholders. 
The CSR agenda is to inspire, challenge and 
empower staff to make a positive contribution 
to local communities and the environment. 
Heritage is committed to integrating CSR into 
everything it does – from being a great place  
to work, investing in local communities, 
minimising environmental impacts and working 
closely with partners and contractors.
Environment
There were no environmental issues 
encountered by Heritage during 2008. 
Heritage is aware that many parts of our 
business could potentially impact upon the 
environment and ecosystems within which we 
operate. We pledge to restore sites where we 
operate to their original state and to comply 
with conditions imposed by bodies such as the 
National Environment Management Authority 
(“NEMA”) in Uganda. Before any well is drilled 
we conduct a seismic survey which uses 
reflected sound waves to generate data. This 
information, together with other geological 
data, enables our technical team to establish 
where to drill for the best chance of a 
discovery. In 2008, five wells were drilled in 
Uganda and all encountered hydrocarbons. 
The drill sites are all in the process of being 
restored under government supervision. 
Heritage adheres to a strict clean environment 
philosophy with a comprehensive waste 
management practice. We contain site drilling 
effluents which are disposed of in dedicated 
environmentally accepted areas.
Heritage provides support to the Ugandan 
Wildlife Authority (“UWA”) and has recently 
financed a major overhaul of a ferry which is 
used to transport both vehicles and people in 
the Block 1 area in Uganda. We have also 
provided scrambler motorcycles for UWA 
rangers and a vehicle for UWA nature wardens.
Society
Our community development strategies in all 
areas are designed and implemented through 
consulting and working with local communities 
and local governments. This is done from an 
early stage to ensure that the community has a 
Heritage’s objective is to 
minimise its impact on 
the environment and to 
support development in 
local communities.
Co-operative Relationships Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33
sense of ownership of the project and is able 
to continue the implementation of the project 
on a sustainable basis.
In Block 3A, Uganda, the inauguration 
ceremony of the Carl Nedft Memorial Primary 
School at Buhuka was organised by Heritage. 
This was a major project for which we made 
available $500,000 and will endow the school 
for many years to come with teaching facilities 
and learning opportunities for the children of 
the remote Buhuka area.
Other community work in which we lead 
programmes includes:
paving or mending roads providing better •	
access for villagers to local markets;
providing fresh water by drilling water wells; •	
supplying carpets to a local mosque in  •	
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq;
providing tremendous opportunities for •	
employment for the local population;
sponsoring pupils to attend university. We •	
are currently sponsoring 12 in Uganda;
sponsoring various community aid and •	
womens’ projects, including a community 
radio station and the Watoto Child Care 
Project in Uganda; and
sponsoring civil servants in Uganda to •	
attend courses on oil legislation and 
contract terms.
Health and Safety
Heritage is committed to achieving and 
maintaining the highest standards of safety  
for its employees and the communities within 
which we operate. In line with our policy, 
Heritage is committed to:
championing safety to everyone our •	
activities touch;
playing a role in promoting best practice  •	
in our industry;
sharing openly information on our health •	
and safety performance; and
managing health and safety matters  •	
as a critical business activity.
Training contractors in health and safety 
matters was a priority in 2008. Our personnel 
in Uganda, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and 
Russia attended, or were offered, courses on 
safety issues such as oil spill and HAZMAT 
(Hazardous Materials) operational training  
and fire fighting training. In both the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq and Uganda, Heritage provides 
nearby villagers with medical checks and 
access to the site clinic. A senior member of 
staff is directly responsible for health and safety 
matters and refers any issues to the Board. 
Malaria remains the biggest health care issue 
in Uganda and Heritage is determined to help 
address this risk. A total of 42 workers were 
treated for Malaria in Block 1 and 115 in Block 
3A, out of total of 786 patients seen which 
included residents from the local communities. 
None of the patients progressed to complicated 
Malaria and no Malaria related deaths were 
reported, showing that the current Malaria 
prevention and treatment programme is working.
In Uganda we have appointed an HIV and AIDS 
Co-ordinator who leads related training on the 
project locations. 
In 2008 we sponsored two local Ugandan 
students to attend the Basic Life Support 
Paramedical Course in Rustenburg, South 
Africa. Both of these students passed the 
course and are now employed on projects as 
part of the internal training programmes to 
obtain further paramedical qualifications.
Employees
We aim to attract, develop and retain talented 
and committed people in order to maintain the 
capability to deliver our business objectives 
and make Heritage an employer of choice. We 
ensure that all of our employees understand 
and appreciate our business strategy, goals 
and values. It is important to Heritage that  
our staff feel valued, safe and free to raise any 
concerns. There are equal opportunities in 
career development for all employees and with 
a geographically diversified portfolio we  
believe that the workforce should reflect  
the communities in which we operate. It is 
important that our employees create and 
maintain our business culture within the 
communities where our operations impact. 
Heritage employs local resources wherever 
possible and also encourages all seismic 
contractors to do the same and to run a 
programme of training for those with potential 
to take on technical roles within future surveys.
Government and Partners
Relationships are key to the development  
of any business and our success would  
not be possible without the support of all 
stakeholders including governments and 
regulators. We work hard to continuously 
engage with these groups to generate support 
and understanding of our operations. 
The Tanzanian National Environmental 
Management Council twice made visits to the 
crew’s seismic operations in both the Kimbiji 
and Kisangire licence areas and senior officers 
fed back a report which is detailed in our 
separate CSR report on page 5.
 
Business Ethics
The Group encourages the highest standards 
of integrity and honesty in all business dealings. 
The objective is to maintain and enhance  
the reputation of the Company and enforce 
ethical dealings within our areas of operation. 
The Board has established a “whistleblowing” 
policy which has been distributed to employees 
and is available in all offices. The policy  
details procedures for any employee to raise  
in confidence any concerns they may have 
about possible improprieties with either the 
Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer. 
Opening of the Carl Nedft Memorial  >
Primary School in Buhuka, Uganda Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 34
1. Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman and Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Hibberd has extensive international 
energy project planning and capital markets 
experience. He has been President and CEO 
of MJH Services Inc., a corporate finance 
advisory company, since 1995, prior to which 
he spent 12 years with ScotiaMcLeod in 
corporate finance and held the position of 
Director and Senior Vice President, Corporate 
Finance. He is Co-Chairman of Sunshine 
Oilsands Ltd. and currently serves on the 
boards of directors of AltaCanada Energy 
Corp., Canacol Energy Ltd., Challenger 
Energy Corp., Iteration Energy Ltd., Pan 
Orient Energy Corp., Ramtelecom Inc. and 
Zapata Energy Corporation. Mr. Hibberd also 
served as a Director of Rally Energy Corp. 
until October 2007 and as a Director of Deer 
Creek Energy Limited until December 2005. 
Mr. Hibberd joined the Group in March 2006.
2. Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Buckingham is the founder of the 
Group. He commenced his involvement 
in the oil industry as a North Sea diver 
and subsequently became a concession 
negotiator acting for several companies 
including Ranger Oil Limited and Premier Oil 
plc. He was previously a security adviser to 
various governments. 
3. Paul Atherton 
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Atherton is a qualified accountant, 
having qualified with Deloitte & Touche, and 
holds a degree in geology from Imperial 
College London. He has a corporate finance 
background with specific experience in the 
international mining and resource sectors. 
He joined the Group in 2000 and joined the 
Board of Directors in 2005.
4. Salim Hassan Macki 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Macki was a Member of the State 
Council, Former Ambassador, Government of 
Sultanate of Oman and has been a Director 
of Oman Oil (a wholly owned Government 
Company) since 1996. Mr. Macki holds 
a Master’s degree in Petrochemical 
Engineering and has spent most of his 
working life in the oil industry, where he is 
highly regarded internationally. He holds, or 
has previously held, many senior executive 
positions in various private and state owned 
entities in Oman and internationally. He joined 
the Group on 12 August 2008.
5. General Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE 
Non-Executive Director
General Sir Michael Wilkes retired from 
the British Army in 1995 as Adjutant 
General and Middle East Adviser to the 
British Government on defence matters. 
As Adjutant General, Sir Michael was the 
most senior administrative officer within the 
Army and a member of the Army Board. 
During his distinguished career, he has seen 
active service across the world while also 
commanding at every level from Platoon to 
Field Army including commanding the 22 
Special Air Service Regiment and serving as 
the Director of Special Forces. Sir Michael is a 
Non-Executive Director of AIM listed Stanley 
Gibbons Group. In addition he holds non-
executive positions on a number of private 
companies including Britam Defence and 
Trico Ltd and chairs the Advisory Board of 
PegasusBridge Fund Management Limited, 
a homeland security Company. He joined the 
Group on 18 March 2008.
Board of Directors
6. Gregory Turnbull 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Turnbull is the Regional Managing 
Partner of the Calgary office of the law firm 
of McCarthy Tétrault LLP. Mr. Turnbull has 
extensive knowledge of corporate governance 
issues and has acted for many boards of 
directors and special committees in that 
regard. Mr. Turnbull started his career with 
the law firm of MacKimmie Matthews in 1979. 
From 1987 to 2001, he was a partner with 
Gowlings LLP (formerly Code Hunter LLP). In 
2001 and 2002, he was a partner with the law 
firm of Donahue LLP. Mr. Turnbull has been a 
partner with the law firm of McCarthy Tétrault 
LLP since July 2002. He joined the Group in 
1997.
7. John McLeod 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. McLeod is a Professional Engineer 
with over 38 years of varied domestic and 
international oil and gas experience. He is the 
President of McLeod Petroleum Consulting 
Limited, President, CEO and a Director of 
Tuscany Energy Ltd., Paris Energy Inc. and 
California Oil and Gas Corporation. He has 
held positions and served on various boards 
including Constellation Oil & Gas Ltd. and 
CanArgo Energy Inc., as President and CEO of 
Arakis Energy Company, as VP, Operations of 
Pengrowth Gas Company, CEO and director 
of Rally Energy Corp. and Canoro Resources. 
Currently, Mr. McLeod serves as a director of 
Diaz Resources Ltd. and March Resources 
Ltd. He is immediate Past-President of 
the Association of Professional Engineers, 
Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta.  
He joined the Group in 1998. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
1
2
3 6
7
5
4 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 36
The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining good 
corporate governance practices and are committed to applying the 
highest industry standards of business ethics, health and safety, 
environment, risk management and corporate and social 
responsibility throughout the Group.
To this end, the Board is continuing to put in place policies and 
procedures within which it will conduct its activities along with 
working practices and a business culture to ensure openness  
and full accountability.
As described below, the Company intends in due course to comply 
with the new June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
as issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council (the “Code”) in all 
material respects.
Compliance with the Code
The Company was incorporated on 6 February 2008 and listed on 
the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 2008 
(the “Listing”). 
This report describes the extent to which the Company has 
complied with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code and 
how it intends to apply those principles (to the extent relevant to  
the June 2008 code) going forward. 
Prior to the Listing, the Board took a number of steps, and continues 
to do so, to comply with the Code. The majority of the Board 
previously served as Directors of Heritage Oil Corporation (“HOC”) 
whose shares were listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The 
Board is, therefore, already accustomed to operating in a highly 
regulated corporate governance environment and as a result has 
adopted a number of its processes. It is the Board’s intention to 
work towards full compliance with the Code in all material respects. 
However, in light of its recent Listing, certain principles of the Code 
have not been applied during the reporting period, either because it 
is not appropriate to do so at this stage in the Company’s 
development or because of the short period of time that has 
elapsed since Listing. 
Between 31 March and 31 December 2008, the Board considers 
that the Company complied with Section 1 of the Code, save in the 
following respects:
Code Provision A.1.3: •	 The Chairman’s performance has not yet 
been appraised due to the short time elapsed since listing. It is 
anticipated that the Chairman’s performance will be appraised 
for the first time as part of the Board evaluation process during 
the second half of 2009;
Code Provision A.2.1: •	 The division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were agreed in writing after 
the end of the reporting period;
Code Provision A.3.2: •	 For part of the year until the appointment 
of Salim Hassan Macki in August 2008 at least half the Board 
(excluding the Chairman) were not considered to be independent 
Non-Executive Directors;
Code Provision A.3.3: •	 The Board has yet to appoint a Senior 
independent Non-Executive Director. Communication between 
the Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors is open 
and frank and the Board believes that little would be added by the 
appointment of a Senior Independent Director at this stage. In 
addition, shareholders have access to all of the Directors to raise 
concerns. The appointment of a Senior Independent Director  
will be kept under review;
Code Provision A.5.1: •	 A formal induction process was not  
in place during the period. However, it is considered more 
appropriate that the induction of an individual Director is  
tailor made to suit the needs and experience of that Director;
Code Provision A.6.1: •	 Board evaluation has not yet been 
undertaken due to the short time elapsed since Listing. The 
Board believes that a meaningful evaluation can only take place 
once the Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work 
together. A Board evaluation process will be developed and 
implemented during the next year;
Code Provision B.1.6: •	 Notice periods for the Executive Directors 
are 24 months. The contracts for the Executive Directors were  
in place before the Listing of the Company. There is no current 
intention to amend the notice periods but this will be kept under 
review by the Remuneration Committee; and
Code Provision C.3.1: •	 The Chairman of the Company, Michael 
Hibberd, is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. However, the Board believes that his recent and 
relevant financial experience, including his experience on 
corporate financial matters, is invaluable in supporting the Audit 
Committee to perform its role.
Board of Directors
The initial Board was composed of six Directors which included a 
Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and a further 
three Non-Executive Directors (as noted below). The Board is now 
comprised of seven Directors, a further independent Non-Executive 
Director being appointed during the year. The Chairman and three of 
the Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under 
the terms of the Code. All of the Directors bring either extensive 
experience of the oil industry or a broad range of business, 
commercial and corporate governance experience to the Board. 
The Executive Directors have close involvement with the operations 
of the business through their operational roles. The Board is 
supported by a strong and experienced senior management team. 
The biographies of the Board are set out on page 34.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and 
delivery of strong sustainable financial performance, guidance, 
perspective and long-term shareholder value. The Board is 
responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls including effectively managing and considering the 
commercial risks and financing needs, the disposal of businesses 
and assessing the most appropriate balance between acquisition 
led growth and organic growth. Individual Directors constantly 
evaluate and challenge the Company’s business strategy to ensure 
they identify areas where improvements can be made or where  
new opportunities exist so that the strategies remain appropriate 
and relevant to the Company’s business. In order to ensure that  
the Company complies with its obligations as a listed Company, the 
Board also has responsibility for communications with shareholders, 
health and safety policy and the review of the Company’s 
management and financial performance. Further details of 
compliance with these obligations are set out below.
The Board was formed early in 2008 and met five times between 
the Listing on 31 March 2008 and 31 December 2008. The Board 
will continue to meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties  
by way of formal Board meetings as well as ad-hoc meetings.  
The Board intends to meet at least four times a year. A formal 
schedule detailing matters specifically reserved for its decision  
has been agreed.
Corporate Governance Report Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37
    Audit  Remuneration  Nomination 
  Board  Committee  Committee  Committee 
  (5 meetings)   (3 meetings)   (3 meetings)  (1 meeting)
Michael Hibberd  5/5  3/3  3/3
1
  1/1
Anthony Buckingham  4/5  –  –  1/1
Paul Atherton  5/5  –  –  –
John McLeod  5/5  3/3  3/3  –
Salim Hassan Macki  2/2
2
  –
4
  1/3
3
  –
Gregory Turnbull  5/5  –  –  –
General Sir Michael Wilkes  5/5  3/3  3/3  1/1
1 Mr. Hibberd resigned from the Remuneration Committee in December 2008.
2 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
3 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in December 2008.
4 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Audit Committee in April 2009.
The Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that 
deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company. The 
Board and its Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company 
Secretary or its nominee. The other duties that would normally be 
carried out by the Company Secretary such as the provision of 
information flows to the Board are dealt with by either the Chairman 
or Chief Financial Officer or their nominee. In terms of corporate 
governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Tétrault, 
Registered Foreign Lawyers & Solicitors, in London. The Board  
will monitor the provision of Company Secretarial duties and take 
any action as appropriate to ensure its requirements are met. The 
appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for 
the Board as a whole.
The Board shall ensure that all Directors and Committee members 
have access to independent professional advice whenever it is 
required and at the Company’s expense. 
Non-Executive Directors have executed letters of appointment 
setting out their respective terms of appointment including the 
expected time commitment which has been agreed and confirmed 
with them. Further details can be found in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 41 to 46. 
The Directors are aware of their responsibilities and feel able to raise 
any concerns at Board meetings which are minuted accurately in 
the Board meeting minutes. 
As required by the Code, the Company maintains Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance cover, in respect of any legal action taken 
against the Directors, which is reviewed annually.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer to ensure an appropriate balance of 
responsibility and accountability. These responsibilities have been 
formalised in writing and approved by the Board. 
The Chairman’s role is to ensure the effective running of the Board 
in all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda. His other key 
responsibilities include leading the Board, overseeing effective 
communication with shareholders, ensuring constructive relations 
between all Directors and that all Directors are encouraged to 
participate fully in the activities and decision making processes of  
the Board. The Chairman also ensures that the Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and Committee 
meeting information being issued to members in advance. At each 
meeting there is an update on operational and financial performance 
including a review of the performance and future potential of all 
material assets. The Chairman’s other significant appointments are 
disclosed to the Board and may be found in the Directors’ 
biographies on page 34.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the Group’s 
business, proposing and developing the Group’s strategy and 
overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and,  
as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the 
Board and its Committees. 
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to certain 
committees in line with recommendations of the Code and to 
facilitate the business of the Company. These are the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Further details of  
these committees and their activities can be found later in this 
report and also in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board 
Committees at meetings between 31 March 2008 and  
31 December 2008 is set out below:
    Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 38
Board Balance and Independence
The Board is comprised of the following Directors:
Michael Hibberd  Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer
Paul Atherton  Chief Financial Officer
Salim Hassan Macki Non-Executive Director
General Sir Michael Wilkes Non-Executive Director
Gregory Turnbull  Non-Executive Director
John McLeod  Non-Executive Director  
The Board is satisfied that its composition will ensure that no 
individual or group of individuals will dominate the decision-making 
process and that there is a strong presence on the Board of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board considers John McLeod, Salim Hassan Macki and 
General Sir Michael Wilkes are independent in character and 
judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may 
affect their judgement. On appointment, the Chairman was also 
considered to be independent. 
Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set  
out by the Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Tétrault LLP, the 
Canadian legal advisers to the Company. 
Albion Energy Limited (“Albion”), the Company’s largest shareholder, 
and Anthony Buckingham entered into a relationship agreement with 
the Company on 28 March 2008 (the “Relationship Agreement”) as 
part of the Listing. The ultimate owner of Albion Energy Limited is 
Anthony Buckingham. The purpose of the Relationship Agreement is 
to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Group, 
Albion and Anthony Buckingham are at arm’s length and on normal 
commercial terms. The Relationship Agreement prescribes that at all 
times, the Board shall comprise of a majority of Directors who are all 
independent of Anthony Buckingham. 
Board Committees
As mentioned above, the Board has three committees, being the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees. The duties of 
these Committees are set out in formal terms of reference that were 
adopted by the Board on 18 March 2008 and are available on the 
Company website. Membership of the Committees was reviewed 
during the year.
Audit Committee and Internal Controls
Audit Committee Report
The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Hibberd 
(Chairman), John McLeod, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim 
Hassan Macki who was appointed on 7 April 2009. All members, 
including the Chairman, are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Other members of the Board may also be invited to attend as and 
when appropriate. The auditors are also invited to attend regularly.
The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member of  
the Audit Committee which is not in line with the recommendations 
made in the Smith Guidance on the Combined Code. However,  
the Board believes that his recent and relevant financial experience, 
including his experience on corporate financial matters, is invaluable 
in supporting the Audit Committee to perform its role.
The Audit Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc discussions  
and formally meets at least twice a year to discharge its 
responsibilities which are set out in its terms of reference and 
include responsibility for:
integrity of financial statements, including annual and interim •	
reports, results announcements and any other formal 
announcement relating to its financial performance;
considering the establishment of an internal audit function; •	
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, •	
review and removal of external auditors;
monitoring external auditors’ independence; and •	
policy on external auditors’ non-audit services. •	
The Audit Committee also oversees the Company’s relationship with 
its external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external 
audit process. The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and non-
audit services undertaken by the external auditor, to ensure that the 
independence of the external auditors is not impaired. The Audit 
Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor were not in any way impaired 
by either the nature of the non-audit work undertaken by the 
external auditor during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged 
for such work or any other facts or circumstances. The split 
between audit and non-audit fees is shown on page 49 of the 
Directors’ Report.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial 
reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the 
accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the 
preparation of public financial information and will examine 
documentation in relation to the Annual Report and annual financial 
report announcements. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the interim and annual financial statements remains with 
the Board.
During the year the Audit Committee considered the following main 
items of business:
review of operations; •	
review and approval of corporate budgeting; •	
review of the integrity of the financial statements and formal •	
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance;
report of the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc; •	
review of interim financial statements; •	
review of the effectiveness of internal controls; •	
review of whistleblowing policy; •	
management representation letters; •	
audit engagement letter; and •	
2008 audit plan and key audit risks. •	
At present there is no internal audit function. The Board believes 
that the current control systems in place and management oversight 
are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial 
reporting systems. The need for an internal audit function is kept 
under review.
Internal Controls
The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls and risk 
management systems. The Board has taken into account the 
relevant provisions of the Code in formulating the systems and 
procedures in operation in the Company. It currently maintains the 
existing system of internal controls based on that used by HOC 
which was subject to compliance with relevant rules and regulations 
in Canada. The Audit Committee considers the system to be effective. 
Corporate Governance Report continued Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The Board will continue to review  
and improve its system of internal controls. 
The Board recognises the need for effective internal controls and for 
evaluating and managing the risks of the Company. Such matters 
are brought to the attention of the Board at its formal Board 
meetings, ad-hoc discussions or via the whistleblowing policy.
High level controls in operation include:
review of management accounts with comparison of actual •	
performance against prior periods and budget;
approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories •	
required to make a transfer on the principal bank accounts;
quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts; •	
approval by the Board for major investments; and •	
segregation of duties between relevant functions and •	
departments.
The Company has implemented a whistleblowing policy and 
information has been sent to all employees advising them that they 
can raise concerns in confidence about possible wrong doing by 
contacting the Chairman of the Audit Committee. In addition, 
whistleblowing is an agenda item at Board and Audit Committee 
meetings with procedures established for appropriate action to be 
taken as required.
The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk assessments 
to identify any deficiencies in the controls currently operating over  
all aspects of the Company. A formal risk assessment is conducted 
periodically during the year on internal controls to cover material 
controls, both financial and operational, and risk management 
systems. 
The risk assessment and a review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls are performed in accordance 
with the Turnbull guidance and they were in place for the year  
end review process.
Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the Listing 
process and a Board memorandum prepared. Having considered 
the findings, the Directors were able to confirm that the financial 
reporting procedures established provided them with a reasonable 
basis on which to make proper judgements on the financial position 
and prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis. However, one 
main weakness was noted, concerning accounting for complex 
transactions, although the Company seeks third party advice to 
mitigate against this weakness. 
The Directors recognise the need to maintain financial reporting 
procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and to adapt them 
to changing circumstances and will use the Board memorandum  
as a basis for further developing the Board processes. 
Details of other principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in the 
Financial Review on page 31.
Remuneration Committee Report
The members of the Remuneration Committee are John McLeod 
(Chairman), Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael Wilkes. 
Following his appointment to the Board Salim Hassan Macki 
replaced Michael Hibberd as a member on the Remuneration 
Committee. All the members are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
external advisers may also be invited to attend. Further information 
on the Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 41 to 46.
The Remuneration Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc 
discussions and formally meets at least once a year and has 
responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the 
framework, or broad Company policy, for the remuneration of the 
Chairman and the specific remuneration packages including 
pension rights and any compensation payments for each of the 
Executive Directors, the senior management and such other 
members of the executive management as it is designated to 
consider. The Committee will also ensure compliance with the  
Code and Companies Act 2006 in this respect. No Director may  
be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
Nomination Committee Report
The members of the Nomination Committee are Michael Hibberd 
(Chairman), General Sir Michael Wilkes and Anthony Buckingham. 
The majority of the members are independent Non-Executive 
Directors and Anthony Buckingham is the Chief Executive Officer. 
External advisers may also be invited to attend meetings as and 
when required.
The Nomination Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc 
discussions and formally meets at least once a year and has 
responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on its 
composition (including the skills, knowledge and experience), 
structure and size and that of its Committees, as well as on 
retirements and appointments of additional and replacement 
Directors taking into account the challenges and opportunities 
facing the Company. In due course, as the Company develops,  
the Nomination Committee will review requirements to formalise 
succession planning and the process for new appointments.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered the following 
items of business:
terms of reference; •	
board structure and committees; •	
succession planning; and •	
process for new appointments. •	
The majority of the Board have previously served as Directors of 
HOC and they were judged on their merit before being appointed  
to the Board. Future re-elections of Directors will be subject to 
satisfactory performance reviews and refreshing of the Board.
Two new Non-Executive Directors, Salim Hassan Macki and  
General Sir Michael Wilkes, were appointed during 2008. An  
external consultancy was not used in the appointment process  
as this was not felt appropriate to the circumstances of the 
recruitments. Both appointments are an outstanding addition to  
the Board providing a wealth of corporate experience and Mr Macki  
is highly regarded internationally in the oil industry. The Board 
approved the appointments recognising that their knowledge  
will be invaluable in assisting the Company to achieve its planned 
goals in its core areas. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 40
Information and Professional Development
The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of diverse 
experience and business skills. Non-Executive Directors are actively 
encouraged to take up opportunities for questioning, examining and 
reviewing the Group’s businesses and to undertake training 
applicable to their roles.
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of Listing 
received a full and tailored induction from the Company’s lawyers as 
part of the Listing process. 
The Company will make the necessary resources available for any 
Director’s development needs including access to independent 
professional advice, services and any other resources including 
Company Secretarial services as may be necessary to discharge 
their responsibilities.
Re-Election
All Directors appointed, other than by shareholders, are subject to 
election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
following their appointment. 
One-third or the nearest to one-third of the Directors shall retire at 
subsequent AGMs. Details of Directors retiring, but subject to 
re-appointment, at the forthcoming AGM will be detailed in the AGM 
circular.
Shareholder Relations and Constructive Use of the AGM
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication 
of shareholders’ views to the Board as a whole and will update the 
rest of the Board accordingly. Board members will use their best 
endeavours to attend meetings with a broad range of shareholders 
or otherwise keep in touch with shareholder opinion and discuss 
strategy and corporate governance issues with them as time 
progresses. In addition, the Company has appointed an investor 
relations specialist who has co-ordinated an investor relations 
programme to meet with major shareholders and analysts. 
The Chairman will also ensure that the respective chairmen of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees attend the AGM 
to answer questions and that the other Directors also attend. 
Corporate information including the Annual Report and other 
financial presentations and announcements (including the 
Prospectus) are available on the Company’s website at  
www.heritageoilltd.com.
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman
28 April 2009
Corporate Governance Report continued Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41
Introduction
This report has been prepared having regard to The Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the “regulations”) and 
meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authority’s 
Listing Rules. 
In preparing this report consideration has also been given to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Guidelines  
of the Association of British Insurers on Executive Remuneration 
Policies and Practices. 
A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders  
at the AGM on 18 June 2009. 
Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were 
John McLeod (Chairman), General Sir Michael Wilkes and Michael 
Hibberd who was replaced by Salim Hassan Macki in December 
2008. Independent advisers, the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer may also attend meetings at the Remuneration 
Committee’s invitation except where matters associated with their 
own remuneration are being discussed. 
The Remuneration Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
advise on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive •	
Directors and Senior Executives;
assess and determine total compensation packages available  •	
to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
determine policy and scope for pension rights and any •	
compensation payments and ensure compliance with the 
Combined Code in this respect; and
make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that  •	
of shareholders, on the design of long-term incentive plans and 
make recommendations for the grant of awards to executives 
under such plans. 
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference 
which are available on the Company’s website. No Director is 
involved in deciding his own remuneration. 
During the year the Remuneration Committee appointed 
independent executive reward consultants, the Hay Group, to 
advise on executive reward arrangements with particular reference 
to the UK marketplace and UK best practice. No other services 
were provided to the Company by the Hay Group during the year. 
Executive Reward Policy Review 
In conjunction with its independent executive reward consultants, 
the Hay Group, specifically appointed for the purpose, the 
Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the executive 
reward policy during the year. The objectives of the review were:
to ensure that the Company has an executive reward framework •	
to help drive future value growth;
to ensure the Company retains and, when necessary, recruits •	
management talent of the required ability and experience;
to ensure that the overall levels of reward were appropriate for •	
the Company given its listing in London, international operations 
and the global nature of the oil and gas industry; and
to ensure that any new arrangements required were in line with •	
UK as well as Canadian standards of corporate governance in  
as much as that such standards support and enhance the 
Company’s ability to generate value for shareholders.
The central conclusion of the review was that the current executive 
reward policy and long-term incentive arrangements were 
inappropriate for the UK marketplace. The market benchmarking 
exercise conducted by the Hay Group also indicated that overall 
levels of reward were low compared to the international marketplace 
and that performance-related reward would need to increase if the 
Company were to maintain the emphasis on the performance-
related components of reward appropriate for the UK. 
Furthermore the review found that the legacy share option 
arrangement, approved by shareholders of HOC in 2004, was 
inappropriate for the UK marketplace because it allowed for  
annual vesting of a proportion of the option grant, did not have  
a performance condition determining vesting and did not reflect 
current market practice in the UK. The Remuneration Committee 
has determined that no further options will be issued, although 
existing arrangements will be honoured. 
New Executive Reward Policy
The Remuneration Committee has addressed the findings of this 
review by ensuring that the levels of total reward are competitive  
and that the balance between fixed (base package and benefits) 
and variable reward (short- and long-term incentives) is appropriate 
(see chart overleaf). 
It is the Remuneration Committee’s opinion that an upper quartile 
level of reward is appropriate in light of the areas where the 
Company operates, the relatively small number of Executive 
Directors at the Company and the roles conducted by the Executive 
Directors. However, upper quartile levels of reward are only available 
(mainly through participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”)) for truly exceptional levels of performance. 
Overall levels of reward are benchmarked against three relevant 
comparator groups:
UK listed oil and gas companies (excluding those significantly •	
larger than the Company); 
an international comparator group comprising companies of  •	
a similar size and scale to Heritage; and
the FTSE 250 Index. •	
The Remuneration Committee determined that the current annual 
bonus structure for Executive Directors was appropriate for the 
business and has also implemented a two year base package 
freeze for Executive Directors with effect from 31 March 2008.  
In addition, a new LTIP was proposed by the Remuneration 
Committee and approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM 
on 19 June 2008 (see page 42). 
Remuneration Report CEO 36% 64%
43% 57% CFO
Fixed Reward Variable Reward
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 42
Balance Between Fixed and Performance-Related Reward 
The charts below show the balance between fixed (base package 
and benefits) and variable (bonus and long-term incentives) 
elements of reward for each of the Executive Directors. 
Fixed Reward includes 2008 base package and value of benefits 
(including pension).
Variable Reward includes 2008 bonus and the annualised fair value 
of long-term incentive awards (apportioned over the life of the LTIP).
Components of Executive Directors’ Reward 
Base Package
The table below shows the annual base packages of the Executive 
Directors on listing on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange. Following the introduction of the LTIP the Remuneration 
Committee has implemented a two year base package freeze for 
the Executive Directors and therefore salaries will not be increased 
in 2009. 
Name 2008 2009 Increase
Anthony Buckingham £675,000 £675,000 0%
Paul Atherton £500,000 £500,000 0%
Annual bonus 
Executive Directors are entitled to an annual performance related 
bonus, determined by the Remuneration Committee. In determining 
the appropriate bonus level, the Remuneration Committee takes into 
account progress made towards the Company’s long-term goals, 
the level of commitment of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer in advancing the interests of the Company and 
share performance. 
Long Term Incentives 
2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008. The main 
features of the awards to Executive Directors are:
one-off awards of performance shares reflecting the equivalent of •	
three years of award;
a face value of 1,200% of base package for the CEO and 800% •	
of base package for the CFO, reflecting the equivalent of three 
years’ annual awards;
the performance conditions, measured over the three-year •	
period starting with the date of the award, are relative total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) versus a group of international oil 
companies and a requirement for the share-price to increase  
by at least 20% between the date of the award and the end of 
the vesting period;
none of the awards will vest until comparative TSR performance •	
is close to the upper quartile level of the comparator group 
detailed on page 43; and
there is an additional holding period of one year following the •	
vesting of the awards. 
Awards vest according to the following schedule: 
 Proportion of award vesting
   Typical UK 
TSR performance vs comparator group of 18 companies  Heritage practice
3rd place (the Upper Decile) and above  100% 100%
4th place  80% 100%
5th place (the Upper Quartile)   50% 100%
6th place  30% 85%
7th place  0% 70%
8th place  0% 55%
9th place   0% 40%
10th place (the Median)   0% 25%
Below 10th place  0% 0%
Long-term incentive award levels have been set with reference to 
the upper quartile of the Company’s comparator groups. However, 
the vesting schedule is designed to only deliver the whole value of 
the award for truly exceptional performance, at a standard higher 
than that which is normal for the UK. The additional performance 
condition, requiring the share price to increase by 20% or more,  
is also above and beyond what is common in both the UK  
and Canada. 
In light of the performance conditions described above, the 
Remuneration Committee believes that the award levels, which 
reflect the equivalent of three years’ annual awards, are appropriate 
for the Executive Directors because: 
a one-off award provides better alignment of the Executive •	
Directors with current and potential shareholders following the 
Company’s reorganisation and listing on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange than annual rolling awards;
a one-off award encourages sustained performance over the •	
next three key years for the Company. Annual awards can have 
the effect of encouraging “staggered” or “delayed” performance 
e.g. not maximising investments and performance as soon as 
possible in any given year so as to ensure that new awards 
benefit from any uplift such investments and performance will 
create. The Remuneration Committee believes that it is in the 
best possible interest of shareholders for maximum value to be 
accrued as soon as possible;
a one-off award to cover three years of annual grant provides a •	
greater retentive effect than annual grants and ensures continuity 
in management following the Company’s listing in London; and
whilst the Remuneration Committee is keen to move to UK •	
standard annual grant patterns as soon as practicable, provided 
to do so is in the best interests of shareholders, providing a 
one-off award equivalent to three years of annual awards 
counterbalances the Remuneration Committee’s decision to 
remove annual vesting for long-term incentives, replacing it  
with a three-year vesting period and an additional one year 
holding period.
Remuneration Report continued Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43
The comparator group of companies was selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and geographic 
spread. The comparator group comprises:
Aminex plc    Imperial Energy plc    Premier Oil plc
BowLeven plc     JKX Oil & Gas plc    SOCO International plc
Dana Petroleum plc   Mariner Energy Inc.    Stone Energy Corp.
Dominion Petroleum Ltd.    McMoran Exploration Co   Swift Energy Co.
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd.   Melrose Resources plc   Tullow Oil plc
Hunting plc     Oilexco Inc.    Venture Production plc
It is not planned to make any further awards to existing members of the LTIP scheme before 2011, although awards may be made to new 
senior members of staff between 2009 and 2011. 
 
2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme
HOC implemented The Heritage Oil Corporation Plan (the “Original Plan”) following approval by its shareholders in 2004 and granted 
options under the Original Plan to its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and other employees and consultants at that time. The grant  
of options included all the then current Executive and Non-Executive Board members which excluded General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim 
Hassan Macki. As a result of the Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, all the 
Board members were entitled to retain their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options to acquire 10 Ordinary Shares  
of the Company for every one Common Share they held under option consistent with the Company’s 10-for-1 share split. The Original Plan 
was then cancelled and on 18 March 2008, the Company adopted The Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme 
(“Replacement Scheme”) which is substantially in the same form as the Original Plan. The purpose of the Replacement Scheme is to act as 
a replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options granted under it by granting holders the option to purchase Ordinary Shares. 
The Replacement Scheme is administered by the Board and no further options will be granted under it.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares that may be issued under the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent 
number of shares required to replace the options granted under the Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
The Company will not grant any further options under this share scheme.
Pensions 
Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension scheme 
nominated by the executive. 
Other Benefits 
The Company’s policy is to provide Executive Directors with certain benefits in kind including private medical insurance and life assurance. 
In addition, both Executive Directors are entitled to allowances of £100,000 (Anthony Buckingham) and £77,500 (Paul Atherton) to cover 
their living expenses. 
Service Agreements 
The Executive Directors’ service agreements with the Company are for no fixed term. In normal circumstances, the agreements may be 
terminated by the Company giving no less than 24 months’ notice and the Executive Director giving six months’ notice. These arrangements 
were in place during their time as Executive Directors of HOC and were inherited by the Company on listing in London. The Board feels that 
these notice periods were appropriate to recruit and retain the Executive Directors, and whilst it has no present intention of changing them, 
it will continue to keep them under review. 
Executive Director Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period by Company Notice period by Director
Anthony Buckingham 28 March 2008 Rolling Contract 24 months 6 months
Paul Atherton 28 March 2008 Rolling Contract 24 months 6 months
In the event of a change of control of the Company, if the Executive Directors resign or the Company terminates their appointment within 24 
months of such an event, they will each be entitled to an immediate payment in lieu of notice of a sum equivalent to three times their annual 
base package. In addition, they will be entitled to a payment of $75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any 
event other than as a result of a change of control. The Company also may terminate the agreements and make payments in lieu of notice. 
Currently the Executive Directors’ service contracts do not provide for mitigation in the event of early termination. The Executive Directors 
do not have service contracts with any Group subsidiary. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 44
Non-Executive Directors 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Remuneration Committee. The Company’s policy is to set levels for 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration so as to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high  
quality Directors. 
Non-Executive Directors’ annual fee levels for 2008 and 2009 are set out below. Fees were paid from 28 March 2008, the date of the 
Company’s reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, or the date of appointment if later. Actual fees 
paid or accrued for the year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the Directors’ Emoluments table on page 45. 
       2008 2009
Michael Hibberd        £80,000 £80,000
Salim Hassan Macki       £80,000 £80,000
General Sir Michael Wilkes       £80,000 £80,000
Gregory Turnbull        £50,000 £50,000
John McLeod       £50,000 £50,000
Additional fee for each day worked in excess of the agreed 20 days per annum     £2,000 £2,000
Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod also receive fees of Cdn$22,500 per annum from HOC for acting as Directors of that 
company. 
Messrs. Hibberd, Turnbull, McLeod and Wilkes are entitled to additional fees of £20,000 in 2008 for the work they undertook in connection 
with the Company’s reorganisation and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months’ notice in writing. Michael 
Hibberd and Gregory Turnbull will be entitled to a change of control bonus of $75,000 plus a pro-rata amount of their previous year’s bonus 
multiplied by a stock price performance factor in the event that HOC changes control. 
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Hassan Macki all the Non-Executive Directors will be entitled to a payment of 
$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control. General Sir 
Michael Wilkes received a payment of £50,000 on joining the Board of the Company. No other Director received this form of payment on 
joining the Board of the Company.
   Initial term of Subsequent term 
Non-Executive Director Date of contract Notice period appointment of appointment
Michael Hibberd 28 March 2008 3 months 2010 AGM 3 years
Gregory Turnbull 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years
John McLeod 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years
General Sir Michael Wilkes 28 March 2008 3 months 2011 AGM 3 years
Salim Hassan Macki  12 August 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 3 years
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Company’s pension arrangements. Although some of these Directors have previously 
received grants of options, they will not receive any further grants or participate in any other long-term incentive arrangements. 
Remuneration Report continued 130.00
120.00
110.00
100.00
90.00
80.00
70.00
60.00
50.00
40.00
March 2008 June 2008 September 2008 December 2008
Cumulative TSR rebased to 100
Heritage Oil Ltd FTSE 250 Index
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR since trading of the Company’s shares began on the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 
2008 against the FTSE 250 Index. The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market 
index which includes the Company and therefore provides a good indication of the Company’s general performance. 
Directors’ Emoluments for the Year Ended 31 December 2008 
   Base  Annual 
   Package/  bonus/ 2008
2
 2008 2007
2
   Fees Benefits
1
 other Total Pensions Total 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Anthony Buckingham    675.0   134.8   300.0   1,109.8  50.6  1,038.3 
Paul Atherton    495.3
7
  119.6   262.5   877.4 37.5  808.0 
Non-Executive Directors
Michael Hibberd
3
    74.9  –  20.0
6
   94.9    58.5 
Gregory Turnbull
3
    46.4  –  20.0
6
  66.4    27.7 
John McLeod
3
    47 .4  –  20.0
6
   67.4    27 .7 
General Sir Michael Wilkes
4
    96.7  –  20.0
6
   116.7   –
Salim Hassan Macki
5
    31.8  – –  31.8   –
Total    1,467 .5   254.4   642.5   2,364.4  88.1  1,960.2 
1 Shows the taxable value of benefits, comprising private medical insurance, school fees for Paul Atherton’s children and life insurance. The figures also include living allowances  
of £100,000 (Anthony Buckingham) and £77,500 (Paul Atherton) but exclude pension contributions. 
2 The Directors became entitled to emoluments payable by the Company from 28 March 2008. Prior to this date the Directors were only entitled to emoluments payable by HOC 
which was then the parent company of the Group. 
3 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod receive fees of Cdn$22,500 per annum paid by HOC as Directors of that company. These fees have been included in the 
above table.
4 General Sir Michael Wilkes received a payment of £50,000 on joining the board in 2008.
5 Mr. Macki was appointed on 12 August 2008.
6 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull, John McLeod and General Sir Michael Wilkes are entitled to an additional fee of £20,000 in 2008 for the work they undertook in connection 
with the Company’s reorganisation and listing on the London Stock Exchange. 
7 The difference from the base package of £500,000 mentioned above is due to the foreign exchange differences. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 46
Performance Shares 
Conditional awards of Performance Shares were granted to Executive Directors on 19 June 2008 under the LTIP, subsequent to the Plan’s 
approval at the Company’s AGM, as shown below. 
Executive Directors’ Interests in Performance Shares 
As at 31 December 2008
(Audited information)
    Number Earliest Share price at 
Director    of shares vesting date date of grant
Anthony Buckingham    2,347 ,826 18 June 2011 345p
Paul Atherton    1,159,420 18 June 2011 345p
Executive Directors’ Interests in Share Options Held Under the Replacement Scheme
As at 31 December 2008
(Audited information)
   Options  Exercise    
Director Date of grant At 31/03/08 exercised At 31/12/08 prices Vesting periods Expiry date
Michael Hibberd 23 Jun 06 150,000  150,000 £0.81 23 Jun 06–23 Jun 08 23 Jun 11
 14 Dec 06 750,000  750,000 £1.43 14 Dec 06–14 Dec 08 14 Dec 11
 21 Dec 06 250,000  250,000 £2.45 21 Dec 07–21 Dec 09 21 Dec 12
Anthony Buckingham 20 May 05 500,000  500,000 £0.48 20 May 05–20 May 07 20 May 10
 14 Dec 06 9,129,510  9,129,510 £1.43 14 Dec 06–14 Dec 08 14 Dec 11
 21 Dec 07 500,000  500,000 £2.45 21 Dec 07–21 Dec 09 21 Dec 12
Paul Atherton 20 May 05 1,250,000  1,250,000 £0.48 20 May 05–20 May 07 20 May 10
 14 Dec 06 1,125,000  1,125,000 £1.43 14 Dec 06–14 Dec 08 14 Dec 11
 21 Dec 06 500,000  500,000 £2.45 21 Dec 07–21 Dec 09 21 Dec 12
Gregory Turnbull 20 May 05 150,000  150,000 £0.48 20 May 05–20 May 07 20 May 10
 14 Dec 06 300,000  300,000 £1.43 14 Dec 06–14 Dec 08 14 Dec 11
 21 Dec 07 150,000  150,000 £2.45 21 Dec 07–21 Dec 09 21 Dec 12
John McLeod 20 May 05 100,000 100,000
1
  0 £0.48 20 May 05–20 May 07 20 May 10
 14 Dec 06 300,000  300,000 £1.43 14 Dec 06–14 Dec 08 14 Dec 11
 21 Dec 07 150,000   150,000 £2.45 21 Dec 07–21 Dec 09 21 Dec 12
Note: The final exercise prices were converted into pounds sterling on the Company’s reorganisation and listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange using the 
exchange rate in effect on that date. 
1 The share price on the date of exercise was £1.72
No options were granted or lapsed during 2008. 
The closing share price on 31 December 2008 was £2.05. During the period the highest share price was £3.50 and the lowest was £1.38. 
This report was approved by the Board on 28 April 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
John McLeod
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 April 2009 
Remuneration Report continued Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47
Directors’ Report
The Directors of Heritage Oil Limited (the “Company”) submit their 
report together with the consolidated audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2008 for the Company and its 
subsidiaries (the “Group”). 
The Company was incorporated on 6 February 2008 in Jersey 
under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended (the “Jersey 
Companies Law”) to become the ultimate holding company of the 
Group. It changed its status to a public company on 25 February 
2008 in preparation for the listing of its ordinary shares on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange (the “LSE”) on 31 March 
2008 (the “Listing”). The Company’s registered office is in Jersey.
Prior to the Listing, the holding company of the Group was HOC, a 
Canadian registered company whose common shares (“Common 
Shares”) were traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). As 
part of the Listing, the Group was reorganised and HOC became an 
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the 
“Reorganisation”). The Reorganisation culminated in the Common 
Shares being de-listed from the TSX and a new class of 
exchangeable shares being created and issued by HOC 
(“Exchangeable Shares”). Subject to the terms of the reorganisation, 
holders of Common Shares could exchange their Common Shares 
for either Ordinary Shares of the Company (“Ordinary Shares”) 
which are traded on the LSE or for Exchangeable Shares that are 
traded on both the LSE and the TSX. Further details of the Listing 
and Reorganisation can be found in the prospectus dated 28 March 
2008 (the “Prospectus”) available on the Company’s website at 
www.heritgageoilltd.com.
Principal Activities and Business Review 
The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, 
development and production Group with a focus on Africa, the 
Middle East, Russia and South Asia. It has exploration projects in 
Uganda, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the DRC, Malta, Pakistan, 
Tanzania and Mali, and a producing property in Russia. Producing 
assets in Oman were sold on 7 April 2009. The Group operates 
through a number of subsidiaries which are set out on page 57.
A review of the business including future developments and 
performance of the Group is contained in:
the Chairman’s Statement on pages 2 to 3; •	
the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 6; •	
the Operations Review on pages 10 to 27; •	
the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31; and •	
the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 33. •	
In addition, the Company has published a separate Corporate 
Social Responsibility report to be sent to shareholders with this 
Annual Report.
A description of the significant risk factors and uncertainties facing 
the Group is set out in the Financial Review on page 31 and also in 
the Directors’ Report on page 49.
Key Performance Indicators
Heritage uses a number of financial and operating Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”) against which it monitors performance. Due to 
being listed on the LSE for less than one year there are no year-on-
year comparisons but comparative data will be built up and reported 
on in future years. Additionally the KPIs will also be developed as the 
Company’s operations evolve.
  Year to  
  31 December 2008
LTIFR
1
  0.03
Staff turnover  3%
Production from continuing operations (%)
2
  +80%
Reserves and Resources Additions (%)
3
  +272%
Average realised price  +5%
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
2 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009. 
3 Management estimates.
Results and Dividends 
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2008 are set out on pages 53 to 56.
The Company and HOC have not declared or paid any dividends 
since their incorporation and do not intend to pay dividends in the 
foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends will depend  
on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and  
such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company 
consider appropriate.
Capital Structure 
The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary 
Shares and a special voting share of HOC (the “Special Voting 
Share”). As described previously, the Company’s indirect subsidiary, 
HOC, has Exchangeable Shares outstanding that are convertible 
into Ordinary Shares of the Company. 
The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to 
fixed income.
The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every share at 
general meetings whilst the holders of Exchangeable Shares have 
rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the 
Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general meetings for every 
Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if they had exchanged 
them for Ordinary Shares. For clarity, the Voting and Exchange Trust 
is a Canadian trust that holds the Special Voting Share for the 
benefit of the registered holders of the Exchangeable Shares 
pursuant to the terms of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement 
dated 27 February 2008. 
Details of how to vote and deadlines for exercising voting rights will 
be set out in the Notice of AGM.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certificated shares 
by an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any 
other form acceptable to the Directors. The Directors may refuse to 
register any transfer of certificated shares which are not fully paid or 
where the register of transfer is not in the acceptable form. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 48
Directors’ Report continued
The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights  
of the Company as at 31 March 2009 are as follows:
252,083,374 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and •	
outstanding, which constitutes 98.8% of the total voting rights  
of the Company.
3,024,108 Exchangeable Shares of HOC each carrying one •	
voting right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which 
constitutes 1.2% of the total voting rights of the Company.
Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Shares, Exchangeable Shares, 
options granted under the employee share scheme and interests  
in the LTIP are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 46.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
After Listing, in the period between 31 March 2008 and  
31 December 2008, a total of 1,182,012 Exchangeable Shares  
were exchanged into Ordinary Shares. 
Major Shareholders
In accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, the shareholders listed below have notified the Company  
of their interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company as at 
31 March 2009: 
 Ordinary Shares 
Name held % Held
1
Albion Energy Limited
3
  84,540,340
2
 33.1 4
Capital Research and Management  
 Company  18,683,814 7.32
Lansdowne Partners Limited  17,901,624 7.02
Firebird Global Master Fund, Ltd  14,384,000 5.64
Harrier Holdings Ltd re LCAM  12,241,395 4.80
1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the  
Ordinary Shares.
2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by both Albion Energy Limited and  
Anthony Buckingham.
3 The ultimate owner of Albion Energy Limited is Anthony Buckingham.
Albion Energy Limited (“Albion”) and Anthony Buckingham entered 
into a relationship agreement with the Company on 28 March 2008 
(the “Relationship Agreement”) as part of the Listing. The purpose  
of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that transactions and 
relationships between the Group, Albion and Anthony Buckingham 
are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms. 
Directors
The following Directors held office during the reporting period:
  Appointment dates
Michael Hibberd (Chairman)  18 March 2008
Anthony Buckingham (CEO)  25 February 2008
Paul Atherton (CFO)  6 February 2008
Gregory Turnbull  18 March 2008
Salim Hassan Macki  12 August 2008
John McLeod  18 March 2008
General Sir Michael Wilkes  18 March 2008
Biographical details of all directors can be found on page 34.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Hassan 
Macki, all the Directors were previously, and continue to be, 
Directors of HOC. 
Directors’ Election and Rotation
With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company 
is governed by its Articles of Association (the “Articles”), the 
Combined Code of Corporate Governance and the Jersey 
Companies Law. The Directors have the power to appoint a Director 
during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election 
at the next AGM. One-third of the Directors must retire from office at 
each AGM. A retiring Director is eligible to stand for re-election. 
In accordance with the above provisions, Salim Hassan Macki, 
having been appointed since the last AGM, will retire, and being 
eligible, offer himself for election at the forthcoming AGM. In 
addition, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod will retire and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Company’s Articles, relevant statutory law and any 
direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting,  
the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who  
may exercise all powers of the Company.
Directors’ Indemnity Provisions
Under the Company’s Articles the Directors are indemnified out of 
the assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by 
reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey  
on 18 June 2009. Formal notice of the Annual General Meeting 
including details of special business will be set out in the Notice  
of the Annual General Meeting and on the Company’s website at 
www.heritageoilltd.com. 
Registrar
The Company’s share registrar is Computershare Investor Services 
(Channel Islands) Limited, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier, 
Jersey, JE4 8PW, Channel Islands. 
Creditors’ Payment Policy
It is the Company and Group’s policy to settle all debts with 
creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of 
credit agreed with each supplier. Average creditor payment days  
for the period under review were approximately 45 days.
Employees 
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had 132 employees (including 
full-time contractors, consultants and Directors) based in the 
following locations:
Jersey   2
Canada   5
Russia   40
Europe   27
Uganda   28
Kurdistan Region of Iraq   14
Tanzania   10
South Africa   6
Total   132 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49
Significant Risk Factors and Uncertainties 
A variety of material risk factors have been identified that could have 
an impact on the Company, including risks relating to operations, 
countries in which the Group operates, the Group structure and 
risks relating to the Ordinary Shares and the Exchangeable Shares. 
The most significant risk factors impacting on the Group are 
considered to be:
exploration and development expenditure and success rates; •	
factors associated with operating in developing countries, •	
political and regulatory instability;
title disputes; •	
oil and gas sales volumes and prices; and •	
reliance on key employees. •	
The above risk factors could adversely affect the cash flows to a 
material extent that the Group may, in certain circumstances, need 
to obtain further debt or equity financing in the future.
Further information on risks and internal controls can be found in the 
Financial Review on page 31.
Financial Risks and Financial Instruments
Information on financial risk management, including credit and 
liquidity risks and information about financial instruments are set out 
in the note to the financial statements on pages 64 to 65 and page 
66, respectively.
Political and Charitable Donations
The Group has undertaken a wide range of community schemes, 
including public health, education, environment, public facility and 
community relations based programmes, further details of which can 
be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 34 
to 35. The Group did not make any political donations during 2008. 
Change of Control Agreements
The Company confirms that there are no significant agreements to 
which it is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon  
a change of control following a takeover bid except those  
disclosed below: 
the Executive Directors’ service contracts contain certain •	
provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report;
the Long Term Incentive Plan rules contain a provision whereby •	
in the event of a change of control all awards will vest in their 
entirety subject to the achievement or otherwise of the 
performance conditions; and
on 16 February 2007, HOC issued 1,650 $100,000 convertible •	
bonds at par to raise $165,000,000 by way of a private 
placement. Issue costs amounted to $6,979,268 resulting in net 
proceeds of $158,020,732. The bonds have a maturity of five 
years and one day and an annual coupon of 8.00%. Bondholders 
have the right to convert bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price  
of $4.70 per share. $9,900,000 of bonds have been converted, 
leaving 1,551 $100,000 bonds outstanding. Bondholders have  
a put option requiring the Company to redeem the bonds at par, 
plus accrued interest, in the event of a change of control of the 
Company, together with a cash payment of up to $19,700 on 
each bond will be made to the bondholder, the amount of which 
depends upon the date of redemption and market value at the 
date of any change of control event.
In April 2009, bondholders with $5.9 million of bonds gave notice of 
the exercise of 59 bonds. These bondholders received 1,255,317 
Ordinary Shares.
Important Events Since the Year End
Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in note 26 to 
the financial statements on page 80.
Audit and Auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought 
to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the 
Company will be proposed at the upcoming AGM. 
Fees billed by KPMG, the Company’s auditors and its associates, 
during 2007 and 2008, may be summarised as follows: 
  2008 2007 
  US$ US$
Audit and audit related services:  
 Group audit of annual and review of 
 interim statements  276,900 456,135
 Prospectus and information circular   97,087 –
  373,987 456,135
Non-audit services:  
 Tax compliance and advisory   110,124 8,704
 Transaction services  537,900 –
  648,024 8,704
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the financial statements for the Group in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by 
the EU and applicable law.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as 
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the 
Group and the performance for that period.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them •	
consistently;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner •	
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific •	
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; 
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS •	
as adopted by the EU; and Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 50
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis •	
unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue 
as a going concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its 
financial statements comply with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for the preparation of a Directors’ Report, Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the statutory and audited information on the Company’s website. 
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom regulation, governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ 
from requirements in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern 
After making due enquiries, the Directors have made an informed 
judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, that 
there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board on 28 April 2009.
Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer
28 April 2009 
Directors’ Report continued Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51
Responsibility Statement of the Directors 
We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our 
knowledge:
(a) the financial statements prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and 
(b) the management report, comprising the Chairman’s Statement, 
Chief Executive’s Review, Operations Review, Financial Review 
and Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 2 to 33, 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business, and the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board.
Michael J. Hibberd  Paul Atherton
Chairman   Chief Financial Officer
28 April 2009    28 April 2009  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 52
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Heritage Oil Limited
We have audited the Group financial statements of Heritage Oil 
Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, 
consolidated cash flow statement and related notes. These financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set 
out therein.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
and, in respect of our work on the Corporate Governance Report, 
on terms that have been agreed with the Company. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state in an auditors’ 
report and, in respect of our work on the Corporate Governance 
Report, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our 
report, and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As described in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on  
pages 49 to 50, the Company’s Directors are responsible for 
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance 
with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 
give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. We also report to you if, in 
our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records 
or if we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
We read the Directors’ Report accompanying the financial 
statements and consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements within it. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects  
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of  
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We  
are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices  
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial 
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of  
the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group’s financial statements give a true and fair view, in •	
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union,  
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008  
and of its loss for the year then ended; and
the financial statements have been properly prepared in •	
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
United Kingdom
28 April 2009 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 53
Consolidated Income Statement
Years Ended 31 December 2008 and 2007
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Revenue
Petroleum and natural gas     5,095,808 3,709,503
Expenses
Petroleum and natural gas operating     (2,250,771) (1,843,540)
Production tax     (2,618,806) (1,092,423)
General and administrative     (30,686,764) (41,271,960)
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation     (2,349,484) (1,892,290)
Exploration expenditures (note 2e)     (786,398) (5,415,696)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 11)     (3,997,033) (1,799,762)
Operating loss     (37,593,448) (49,606,168)
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries (note 9)     – 1 ,077, 132
Finance income (costs)
Interest income     3,954,749 3,958,219
Loss on redemption of liability component of convertible bonds      – (7, 155,622)
Gain/(loss) on derivative financial liability relating to convertible bonds (note 2q)    10,954,514 (21,279,964)
Other finance costs (note 6)     (11,257,187) (1 1 ,997,7 48)
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains     (5,648,179) 931,913
Unrealised (loss)/gain on other financial assets (note 12)     (1,713,700) 906,643
     (3,709,803) (34,636,559)
Net loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company    (41,303,251) (83,165,595) 
Net loss per share
Basic and diluted (note 20)     (0.16) (0.37) 
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 54
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Years Ended 31 December 2008 and 2007
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (note 19)    – 168,000
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (note 19)     (651,364) 434,583
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity     (651,364) 602,583
Net loss for the year     (41,303,251) (83,165,595) 
Total recognised loss for the year     (41,954,615) (82,563,012) 
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2008 and 2007
     2008 2007 
     $ $
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible exploration assets (note 10)     211,346,037 102,862,754
Property, plant and equipment (note 11)     88,039,218 64,225,918
Other financial assets (note 12)     3,330,501 5,044,201
     302,715,756 172,132,873
Current assets
Inventories     395,110 199,465
Prepaid expenses     664,759 447,271
Trade and other receivables (note 13)     6,901,511 6,759,261
Cash and cash equivalents (note 14)     90,620,385 230,089,323
     98,581,765 237,495,320
     401,297,521 409,628,193
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (note 15)     54,751,768 24,646,531
Borrowings (note 16)     595,418 623,640
     55,347,186 25,270,171
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (note 16)     155,609,982 154,253,701
Derivative financial liability (note 22)     25,785,476 36,739,990
Provisions (note 17)     719,808 170,899
     182,115,266 191,164,590
     237,462,452 216,434,761
Net assets     163,835,069 193, 193,432
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE COMPANY
Share capital (note 18)     218,283,881 21 7,672,243
Reserves (note 19)     54,511,609 43,178,359
Retained deficit (note 19)     (108,960,421) (67,657, 1 70) 
     163,835,069 193, 193,432
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 56
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Years Ended 31 December 2008 and 2007
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Cash provided by (used in) operating activities
Net loss from operations for the year     (41,303,251) (83,165,595) 
Items not affecting cash
 Depletion, depreciation and amortisation     2,349,484 1,892,290
 Finance costs – accretion expenses     4,183,874 3,619, 198
 Foreign exchange losses/(gains)     320,580 (153,1 7 4) 
 Share-based compensation     7,595,542 31,300,295
 Loss on redemption of convertible bonds     – 7, 155,622
 (Gain)/loss on derivative financial liability     (10,954,514) 21,279,964
 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries     – (1 ,077, 132) 
 Loss/(gain) on other financial assets     1,713,700 (906,643) 
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment     3,997,033 1,799,762
 Decrease in trade and other receivables     1,136,624 5,195,888
 (Increase)/decrease in prepaid expenses     (217,488) 84,002
 Increase in inventory     (195,645) (100,544) 
 (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables     (1,432,138) 10,585,162
     (32,806,199) (2,490,905) 
Investing activities
Property, plant and equipment expenditures     (29,610,908) (27,236,018) 
Intangible exploration expenditures     (73,608,271) (48,095,422) 
Intangible development expenditures     – (64,931) 
Investment in shares     – (200,000) 
     (103,219,179) (75,596,371) 
Financing activities  
Shares issued for cash     361,537 187, 106,476
Share issue costs     – (10,473,386) 
Convertible bonds     – 165,000,000
Convertible bonds issue costs     – (6,979,268) 
Redemption of convertible bonds     – (83,022,752) 
Long-term debt     – 9,450,000
Long-term debt issue costs     – (314,897) 
Repayment of long-term debt     (616,118) (155,537) 
     (254,581) 260,610,636
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (136,279,959) 182,523,360
Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of year     230,089,323 46,861,146
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on cash held in foreign currency     (3,188,979) 704,817
Cash and cash equivalents – end of year     90,620,385 230,089,323
Non-cash investing and financing activities (note 25)
Supplementary information
The following have been included within cash flows for the year under operating activities
 Interest received     4,477,227 3,504,866
 Interest paid     13,636,178 8,546,840
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 57
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1 Reporting Entity
Heritage Oil Limited (the “Company”) was incorporated under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (as amended) on 6 February 2008.  
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East,  
Russia and South Asia. The Company was established in order to implement a corporate reorganisation of Heritage Oil Corporation  
(“HOC”, the “Corporation”).
On 24 March 2008, HOC entered into a corporate reorganisation (the “Reorganisation”) which resulted in the Company becoming the 
parent company of HOC and its subsidiaries. The Company’s corporate head office is now located in the Channel Islands. In connection 
with the Reorganisation, the Company listed its Ordinary Shares (“Ordinary Shares”) on the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing 
Authority (the “UKLA”) and trades on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange plc (the “LSE”) (collectively, “Admission”). HOC 
delisted its existing Common Shares (“Heritage Shares”) from the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”) and obtained a listing for a new class 
of Exchangeable Shares (the “Exchangeable Shares”) on the TSX. As part of the Reorganisation, implemented by way of a court-approved 
plan of arrangement (the “Arrangement”) under the Business Corporations Act (Alberta), HOC split its stock such that each existing HOC 
Share was exchanged for either ten Ordinary Shares or 10 Exchangeable Shares in accordance with the terms of the Arrangement.
On 2 April 2008, HOC and the Company collectively, together with their subsidiaries and affiliates, announced that Articles of Arrangement 
implementing the previously announced Arrangement involving HOC and the Company had been filed with the Registrar of Corporations  
for the Province of Alberta with an effective date of 31 March 2008. As a result, former holders of Common Shares of HOC were entitled to 
either 10 Ordinary Shares of the Company or ten Exchangeable Shares of HOC for each Common Share held depending on the elections 
previously made by such shareholders. Effective at the opening of business on 3 April 2008, the Exchangeable Shares were listed and 
posted for trading in substitution for the previously listed Common Shares of HOC which were delisted at that time. The Exchangeable 
Shares were also admitted to trading on the Main Market of the LSE on 2 April 2008. Trading of Ordinary Shares commenced on the LSE 
on 31 March 2008.
The Exchangeable Shares are designed to have rights as near as possible equivalent to the Ordinary Shares of the Company. Each 
Exchangeable Share is exchangeable on a one-for-one basis for an Ordinary Share. The holders of Exchangeable Shares are entitled to 
Voting Rights equivalent to Ordinary Shares through the Special Voting Share (see below). Dividends to Ordinary Shareholders can only  
be declared or paid simultaneously with the declaration or payment of an identical dividend to Exchangeable Shareholders. On liquidation, 
dissolution or winding-up of HOC, the Exchangeable Shareholders will be given one Ordinary Share per Exchangeable Share held.
The Company has issued one Special Voting Share. The Special Voting Share has the number of votes, which may be cast at any meeting 
at which holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to vote, equal to the number of Exchangeable Shares of HOC outstanding at the relevant 
time. The holders of Exchangeable Shares are entitled to Voting Rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the Voting 
and Exchange Trust by the Company, and have the right to receive notice of, speak and vote at the general meetings of the Company  
(on the basis of one vote for every Exchangeable Share) on the same basis as if they had exchanged their Exchangeable Shares for 
Ordinary Shares.
In connection with this Reorganisation the Company has agreed that the 2007 convertible bonds outstanding were convertible into Ordinary 
Shares of the Company rather than Common Shares of HOC. 
These consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises control. 
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as the Group. The subsidiaries consolidated within these financial statements 
include, inter alia, Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage Oil & Gas Limited, Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited, Heritage Oil and Gas (U) Limited, 
Heritage Energy Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya 
Geologicheskaya Kompaniya, Heritage Oil & Gas (Austria) GesmbH, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 Limited, Heritage 
Energy Holding GesmbH, Heritage Oil & Gas (Gibraltar) Limited, TISE Heritage Neftegaz, Begal Air Limited, Heritage International Holding 
GesmbH, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil (Barbados) Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas (Switzerland) SA, 
Heritage Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil Cooperatief U.A, Heritage Oil Holdings Limited, Heritage 
International VOF, Heritage (International) Holding (Gibraltar) Limited, Heritage Tanzania Kimbiji-Latham Limited and Heritage Tanzania 
Kisangire Limited.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Company’s functional and  
presentation currency.
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issuance on 28 April 2009.
2 Significant Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 58
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
a) Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union. 
The Reorganisation, which is not a business combination, was accounted for with reference to the principles of reverse acquisition 
accounting as in accounting terms, the substance of the Reorganisation is that the underlying economics of the business have remained 
unchanged. Accordingly, the Reorganisation has been accounted for on a carry over basis of the historical cost of assets and liabilities of 
HOC and the consolidated financial history of HOC becomes that of the Company.
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain 
financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, the Company raises financing for its activities from time to time using a variety of sources. 
Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient 
cash to finance its current plans for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements, but further finance is likely to be 
required to meet expenditure planned for the second half of 2010. Sources of funding for future exploration and development programmes 
will be derived from, inter alia, new credit facilities, reinvesting funds from operations, using existing treasury resources, disposal proceeds 
from the sale of non-core assets, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing debt and additional equity. Accordingly, the Group 
has a number of different sources of finance available and the Directors are confident that additional finance will be raised as and when 
needed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report  
and accounts.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in  
the Operations Review of the Annual Report on pages 10 to 27. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position  
are described in the Chief Financial Officer’s Financial Review on pages 28 to 31. In addition, note 3 to the financial statements includes  
the Group’s policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management, and its exposure to foreign exchange risk, 
commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree 
of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 4.
b) Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2008 and 
2007 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies, so as to obtain benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The 
existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the 
Company controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company. They are 
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group entities (the Company and its subsidiaries)  
are eliminated. For the purposes of consolidation, the accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Company. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 59
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
c) Segment Reporting
The Company’s primary segment reporting format is geographical. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services 
within a particular economic environment, that are subject to risks and returns, that are different from those of segments operating in other 
economic environments.
d) Joint Arrangements
The majority of exploration, development and production activities are conducted jointly with others under contractual arrangement and, 
accordingly, the Group only reflects its proportionate interest in such assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
e) Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures
The Group applies a modified full cost method of accounting for exploration and evaluation (“E&E”) costs, having regard to the requirements 
of IFRS 6 “Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources”. Under the modified full cost method of accounting, costs of exploring for 
and evaluating oil and gas properties are capitalised on a licence or prospect basis and the resulting assets are tested for impairment by 
reference to appropriate cost pools. Such cost pools are based on geographic areas and are not larger than a segment. The Group had 
nine cost pools in 2007 and 2008: Uganda, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Russia, Oman, DRC, Pakistan, Malta, Mali and Tanzania.
E&E costs related to each licence/prospect are initially capitalised within “Intangible exploration assets”. Such E&E costs may include costs 
of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, the projected costs of retiring the 
assets (if any) and directly attributable general and administrative expenses, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the 
legal rights to explore an area, which are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Where the Company farms-in to licences and incurs costs in excess of its own share of licence costs as consideration, these costs are 
capitalised as its own share.
Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified as property, plant and equipment; however, to the extent that such a tangible 
asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the 
intangible asset.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence/prospect are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence (or 
otherwise) of commercial reserves has been determined. The Group’s definition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proved and 
probable reserves on an entitlement basis.
Proved and probable reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and 
engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty (see below) to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and 
which are considered commercially producible. There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves 
will be more than the amount estimated as proved and probable and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less. The equivalent statistical 
probabilities for the proved component of proved and probable reserves are 90% and 10%, respectively.
Such reserves may be considered commercially producible if management has the intention of developing and producing them and such 
intention is based upon:
a reasonable assessment of the future economics of such production; •	
a reasonable expectation that there is a market for all or substantially all the expected hydrocarbon production; and •	
evidence that the necessary production, transmission and transportation facilities are available or can be made available. •	
Furthermore:
(i)  Reserves may only be considered proved and probable if producibility is supported by either actual production or a conclusive formation 
test. The area of reservoir considered proved includes: (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water 
contacts, if any, or both: and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically 
productive on the basis of available geophysical, geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the 
lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir; and
(ii)  Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are only 
included in the proved and probable classification when successful testing by a pilot project, the operation of an installed programme  
in the reservoir, or other reasonable evidence (such as, experience of the same techniques on similar reservoirs or reservoir simulation 
studies) provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or programme was based.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below 
and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. The carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets  
is then reclassified as development and production assets within property, plant and equipment. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 60
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable 
amount. Such indicators include the point at which a determination is made as to whether or not commercial reserves exist. Where the  
E&E assets concerned fall within the scope of an established full cost pool, the E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all 
development and production assets associated with that cost pool, as a single cash generating unit. The aggregate carrying value is 
compared against the expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows 
expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves. Where the E&E assets to be tested fall outside the scope of any 
established cost pool, there will generally be no commercial reserves and the E&E assets concerned will be written-off in full.
f) Property, Plant and Equipment
i) Development and Production Assets
The Group had two interests at the development and production stage during the years covered by these financial statements; Russia  
and Oman.
Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial 
reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves 
transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above, the projected cost of retiring the assets and directly attributable general and 
administrative expenses.
The net book values of producing assets are depleted on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the  
ratio of production in the year to the related proved plus probable reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development 
expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the 
carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount. The aggregate carrying value is compared against 
the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows 
expected to be derived from the production of commercial reserves. The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is 
generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows generated 
by the fields are interdependent.
ii) Other Assets
Other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. The assets’ useful lives 
and residual values are assessed on an annual basis.
Furniture and fittings are depreciated using the reducing balance method at 20% per year.
Land is not subject to depreciation.
Drilling rig equipment is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on 2,740 drilling days with a 20% residual value.
The corporate jet is depreciated over its expected useful life of 69 months. Depreciation is charged so as to write-off the cost, less 
estimated residual value of corporate jet on a straight-line basis.
Corporate capital assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The building is depreciated on a straight-
line basis over 40 years with nil residual value. The land is not depreciated.
g) Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
h) Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that 
the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
i) Inventories
Inventories consist of petroleum, condensate, liquid petroleum gas and materials that are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost 
and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour, depletion and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing 
the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, 
less applicable variable selling expenses. Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 61
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
j) Intangible Development Costs
Development costs are recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will, after considering its commercial and 
technical feasibility, be completed and generate future economic benefits and its costs can be measured reliably. All other research and 
development costs are charged to earnings in the year incurred.
k) Investments
The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement and available- 
for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its investments at initial recognition. During the years covered by these financial statements the Group did not have any 
investments classified as “loans and receivables” or “held to maturity investments”.
i) Financial Assets at Fair Value Through the Income Statement
Financial assets held for trading are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. A financial asset  
is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading 
unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the “financial assets at fair value through the income statement” category are 
presented in the income statement within “Unrealised gain/(loss) on other financial assets” in the year in which they arise.
ii) Available-For-Sale Financial Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets, comprising principally marketable equity securities, are non-derivatives that are either designated in  
this category or not classified. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within  
12 months of the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale (other than impairment losses and foreign 
exchange gains and losses which are recognised in the income statement) are recognised in equity. Upon sale of a security classified as 
available-for-sale, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is 
impaired. Measurement is assessed by reference to the fair value of the financial asset or group of financial assets.
l) Non-Current Assets Held for Sale
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets (including those that are part of a disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held  
for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as assets held for sale are presented separately, 
as current assets, from the other assets in the balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented 
separately, as current liabilities, from other liabilities in the balance sheet.
m) Trade and Other Payables
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
n) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability components (being the bondholders’ conversion option) and each 
component is recognised separately. On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined  
using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using 
the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The fair value of the derivative liability component 
(see note 2q) is determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model, and this amount is recorded as a liability.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.  
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the 
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in finance income or costs.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least  
12 months after the balance sheet date. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 62
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
o) Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete 
and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are expensed.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to 
the Group’s outstanding borrowings during the year. For the year ended 31 December 2008, this was 12.01% (31 December 2007 – 10.70%).
p) Provisions
Asset Retirement Obligations
Provision is made for the estimated cost of any asset retirement obligations when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been 
reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Asset retirement obligation expense is capitalised in the 
relevant asset category unless it arises from the normal course of production activities.
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date. The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the liability.
Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation, the obligation is adjusted at the end of each year to reflect the 
passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligation. The increase in the provision due to the passage 
of time is recognised as finance costs whereas increase due to changes in the estimated future cash flows are capitalised.
q) Derivative Financial Liabilities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair 
value at each reporting date. Changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
r) Revenue Recognition
Revenue from the sale of petroleum and natural gas is recognised at the fair value received or receivable and is recorded when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product are transferred to the buyer. For sales of oil and gas this is usually when legal title 
passes to the external party which occurs on shipment of oil and gas to the buyer. Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis 
using the effective interest method.
s) Income Taxes
Current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable 
amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the 
deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.
t) Foreign Currency Translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates (“the functional currency”). The Company’s consolidated financial 
statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation 
at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 63
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
The results and financial position of all the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries (none of which has a functional currency that is the 
currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into  
the presentation currency as follows:
i)  assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
ii)  income and expenses for each year are translated at average exchange rates (unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the 
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates  
of the transactions); and
iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised as either income or expense in a separate component of equity.
Foreign currency loans and overdrafts are designated as, and are considered to be, hedges of the exchange rate exposure inherent in 
foreign currency net investments and, to the extent that the hedge is effective, exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying 
value of foreign currency loans are also recognised as income or expense directly in equity. All other exchange differences giving rise to 
changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are recognised in the income statement.
When a foreign operation is sold, a proportionate share of the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in equity are 
recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or loss on sale where applicable.
u) Share-Based Compensation Plans
The Group applies the fair value method of accounting to all equity classified share-based compensation arrangements for both employees 
and non-employees. Compensation cost of equity classified awards to employees are measured at fair value of the awards at the time 
when the services are rendered at the grant date and recognised over the periods during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options. The compensation cost is charged to the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
The compensation cost of equity classified awards to non-employees is initially measured at fair value, and periodically remeasured to  
fair value until the non-employees’ performance is complete, and recognised over their vesting period with a corresponding increase  
to share-based payment reserve. Upon the exercise of the award, consideration received is recognised in equity. See note 21.
v) Share Capital
Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are classified as share capital. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
If the Company re-acquires its own equity instruments the cost is deducted from equity and the associated shares are cancelled.
w) Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number 
of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the financial period. The rights of different classes of shares are the same and therefore economically 
equivalent. As such, Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are treated as one class of shares for the earnings per share calculation.
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after income 
tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential Ordinary Shares and the weighted average number of 
shares assumed to have been issued for no consideration in relation to dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The if-converted method used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion of convertible securities at the later  
of the beginning of the reported period or issuance date, if dilutive. In all cases, the weighted average number of shares used has been 
adjusted to reflect the effective one for ten share split that took place as part of the corporate reorganisation described in note 1.
x) New Accounting Standards and Interpretations
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2008. 
The Company’s assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations which have not been adopted is set out below.
i) IFRS 8, “Operating segments” (effective from 1 January 2009), replaces International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 14 and aligns segment 
reporting with the requirements of the US standard Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 131, “Disclosures about 
segments of an enterprise and related information”. The new standard requires a “management approach”, under which segment 
information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. The expected impact is still being assessed by 
management, but is expected to only impact the disclosures of the Group.
The following standard is assessed not to have any impact on the Company’s financial statements:
i) IAS 23 (Amendment), “Borrowing costs” (effective from 1 January 2009), requires the Group to capitalise borrowing costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset (one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready  
for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The Group currently applies the capitalisation approach to borrowing costs. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 64
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
2 Significant Accounting Policies continued
The following amendments have been published, but have not been applied in these financial statements:
i)  IFRS 2 (Amendment), Share-based payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations: effective for accounting periods commencing on or 
after 1 January 2009;
i)  IFRS 3 (Amendment) Business Combinations: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009;
iii) IAS 1 (Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009; and
iv) IAS 27 (Amendment), Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after  
1 July 2009.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these amendments will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in 
the period of initial application.
3 Risk Management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that arise as a result of its exploration, development, production, and financing 
activities. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise 
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
a) Financial Risk Management
i) Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign exchange risk arises when transactions and recognised assets and liabilities of the Group entity concerned are denominated in a 
currency that is not the Company’s functional currency. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising 
from currency exposures to the US dollar.
There are no forward exchange rate contracts in place at, or subsequent to, 31 December 2008.
At 31 December 2008, if the Canadian dollar had strengthened/weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held 
constant, the loss for the year would have been $122,403 (31 December 2007 – $2,978,702) higher/(lower), mainly as a result of foreign 
exchange gains/losses on translation of Canadian dollar denominated general and administrative expenses and cash in bank. Profit is more 
sensitive to movement of Canadian/US dollar exchange rates in 2007 than 2008 because of significantly higher general and administrative 
expenses in 2007 in comparison with 2008.
At 31 December 2008, if the Russian rouble had strengthened/weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held 
constant, the loss for the year would have been $(513,633) (31 December 2007 – $(329,361)) higher/(lower), mainly as a result of foreign 
exchange gains/losses on translation of Russian rouble denominated cash in bank and monetary assets and liabilities.
At 31 December 2008, if the Pounds Sterling had strengthened/weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held 
constant, the loss for the year would have been $605,907 (31 December 2007 – $343,011) higher/(lower), mainly as a result of Pounds 
Sterling denominated general and administrative expenses and foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of Pounds Sterling 
denominated long-term loan.
At 31 December 2008, if the Swiss franc had strengthened/weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, 
the loss for the year would have been $(299,806) (31 December 2007 – $(420,274)) higher/(lower), mainly as a result of foreign exchange 
gains/losses on translation of Swiss franc denominated cash at bank.
ii) Commodity Price Risk
The Company is exposed to commodity price risk to the extent that it sells its entitlement to petroleum, condensate and liquid petroleum 
gas production on a floating price basis. The Company may consider partly mitigating this risk in the future.
The table below summarises the impact of increases/decreases of the relevant oil/condensate/LPG benchmark on the Company’s loss  
for the year. The analysis is based on the assumption that commodity prices had increased/decreased by 5% with all other variables  
held constant:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Brent light crude     191,850  85,886
Condensate      48,190 77,831
LPG      14,751 21,759
     254,791 185,476
The loss for the year would increase/decrease as a result of commodity revenues received. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65
3 Risk Management continued
iii) Interest Rate Risk
The Group had fixed rate long-term debt and fixed rate convertible bonds in the years under review, therefore, it was not exposed to interest 
rate risk with respect to these fixed-rate borrowings. In October 2007, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company received a long-term loan 
of $9,450,000 with a variable rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% (note 16). An increase/decrease of LIBOR by 1% would result in an increase/decrease 
of the Company’s loss for the year by $73,375 (31 December 2007 – $17,325).
iv) Credit Risk
All of the Company’s production was derived from Russia and Oman. In 2007 and 2008, the Company made all of its production sales,  
at any point in time, in each country to a single customer for each commodity. Accordingly, substantially all the Company’s accounts 
receivables from petroleum and natural gas sales were from a maximum of three customers during these years.
Trade debtors of the Company are subject to internal credit review to minimise the risk of non-payment. The Company does not anticipate 
any defaults as it transacts with creditworthy counterparties. No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting years and management 
does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties. 
The Company is also exposed to credit risk in relation to regular joint venture billings which are typically outstanding for one month and in 
relation to its cash balances held with the reputable banks.
v) Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities. Cash forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the 
Group are produced quarterly. These are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient funds exist to finance the Company’s current operational 
and investment cash flow requirements.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s cash position on the basis of expected cash flow.
The Group had available cash of $91 million at 31 December 2008. Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital 
expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to finance its current plans for at least 12 months from the date 
of approval of the financial statements, but further financing is likely to be required to meet expenditures planned for the second half of 2010. 
The Company’s financial liabilities consist of trade and other payables and borrowings. Trade and other payables are due within 12 months, 
and borrowings fall due as outlined in note 24.
b) Capital Risk Management
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to 
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of 
capital. In accordance with the terms of the convertible bonds, the Company shall not, over the life of the convertible bonds (note 16),  
make any dividend payment or share repurchase. 
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is 
calculated as total borrowings (including “borrowings” and “trade and other payables” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less 
cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
     As at 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Total borrowings     237,462,452 216,434,761
Less cash and cash equivalents (note 14)     (90,620,385) (230,089,323)
Net debt (cash)     146,842,067 (13,654,562)
Total equity     163,835,069 193, 193,432
Total capital     310,677,136 193, 193,432
Gearing ratio     47% 0%
This increase in the gearing ratio during 2008 resulted primarily from an increase in accounts payable at 31 December 2008 due to the 
significant exploration activities at the end of the year and a decrease in equity due to the net loss incurred during 2008. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 66
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
4 Critical Accounting Estimates, Assumptions and Judgements
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management makes estimates and 
assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The 
estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are discussed below:
a) Recoverability of Exploration and Evaluation Costs
Under the modified full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, certain costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to 
appropriate cost pools, and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its 
recoverable value.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to:
i) the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period, or will expire in the near future, 
and is not expected to be renewed;
ii) substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor 
planned;
iii) exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of 
mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area; and
iv) sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the 
exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
This assessment involves judgement as to: (i) the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be 
determined; (ii) future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated; and (iii) the 
discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value. Note 10 discloses the carrying 
amounts of the Group’s E&E assets. Consequently, major uncertainties affect the recoverability of these costs which is dependent on the 
Group achieving commercial production or the sale of the assets. Note 24 discloses contingencies relating to the title risks. The Company 
assessed whether these risks are contingencies or indicators of impairment and concluded that they are contingencies.
b) Reserve Estimates
Estimates of recoverable quantities of proven and probable reserves include assumptions regarding commodity prices, exchange rates, 
discount rates, production and transportation costs for future cash flows. It also requires interpretation of complex and difficult geological 
and geophysical models in order to make an assessment of the size, shape, depth, and quality of reservoirs and their anticipated 
recoveries. The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate reserves may change from period to period. Changes in 
reported reserves can impact asset carrying values and the asset retirement obligation due to changes in expected future cash flows. 
Reserves are integral to the amount of depletion charged to the income statement and the calculation of inventory.
The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Group’s 
development and production assets has been impaired.
c) Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of the fair value of financial instruments. Fair values have been 
determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods:
i) Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
These comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings 
and trade and other payables. Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value 
through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the applicable market rate of 
interest at the reporting date.
ii) Derivatives
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value. Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and 
accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, 
a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined 
instrument is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their listed market prices, if available. If a listed market price is not available, 
then fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the 
residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds). Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67
4 Critical Accounting Estimates, Assumptions and Judgements continued
iii) Compound Financial Instruments
Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option of 
the holder, and the number of shares to be issued does not vary with changes in their fair value.
The convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability components (being the bondholders’ conversion option). The liability 
component of a compound financial instrument is recognised initially at fair value, determined by reference to market interest rates for equivalent 
bonds which do not contain conversion features. Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component is measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. The fair value of the derivative liability component is determined using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and 
this amount is recorded as a liability. The Black-Scholes model contains assumptions and determinations pertaining to volatility, risk-free interest 
rates, and the terms of the options (see note 22).
5 Segment Information
The Group has a single class of business which is international exploration, development and production of petroleum oil and natural gas.
In 2007 and 2008, the Group operated in a number of geographical areas based on the location of operations and assets; Russia, Oman, 
Uganda, DRC, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Pakistan, Tanzania, Malta and Mali.
  Year ended 31 December 2008
      Depreciation, 
 External Segment Total Total Capital depletion and 
 revenue result assets liabilities additions amortisation 
 $ $ $ $ $ $
Russia 3,836,991 (7,643,812) 48,123,180 446,935 4,674,969 1,070,410
Oman 1,258,817  (2,850,270) 28,065,282 3,279,402 17,983,358 264,003
Uganda – – 154,684,138 30,485,069 55,791,804  –
DRC – –  1,606,765 – 760,545 –
Kurdistan Region of Iraq – – 43,774,646 6,467,567 41,781,416 –
Pakistan – – 1,560,330 – 607,924 –
Tanzania – (204,515) 13,785,019 659,604 13,129,738 –
Mali – –  1,682,381 – 1,012,320 –
Malta – (14,831)  8,685,637 3,469 2,052,831 –
Unallocated – Corporate –  (30,589,823) 99,330,143 196,120,406 870,924 1,015,071
 5,095,808 (41,303,251)  401,297,521 237,462,452 138,665,829 2,349,484
  Year ended 31 December 2007
      Depreciation, 
 External Segment Total Total Capital depletion and 
 revenue result assets liabilities additions amortisation 
 $ $ $ $ $ $
Russia 1,717 ,717 (2,653,941) 46,384,681 2,874,575 24,306,477 558,604
Oman 1,991,786 1,027 ,069 13,817 ,039 331,379 4,408,453 370,868
Uganda
1 
– (38,359) 92,398,347 6,036,508 32,993,911 –
DRC  – – 1,296,220 – 710,751 –
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
2 
– (2,273,220) 1,622,934 – 1,622,934 –
Pakistan – (311,778) 952,406 – 952,406 –
Mali – (159,947) 213,145 – 213,146 –
Malta – (32,846) 6,517 ,779 – 6,517 ,779 –
Unallocated – Corporate – (78,722,573) 246,425,642 207 ,192,299 11,765,343 962,818
 3,709,503 (83,165,595) 409,628,193 216,434,761 83,491,200 1,892,290
1 Uganda includes exploration activity as well as operating expenses relating to drilling services.
2  Kurdistan Region of Iraq information was not a separate geographic segment as defined in note 2c until October 2007. However, information is presented to conform with the 
current year presentation.
Exploration expenditures in respect of E&E assets relate to pre-licence costs which are expensed in accordance with IFRS 6. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 68
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
6 Other Finance Costs
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Interest on long-term debt     963,965 678,199
Interest on convertible bonds     12,640,000 12,573,959
Accretion of convertible debt     4,161,215 3,601,636
Accretion of asset retirement obligation     22,659 7,636
     17,787,839 16,861,430
Amount capitalised     (6,530,652) (4,863,682)
Finance costs expensed     11,257,187 1 1 ,997,7 48
 
Finance costs are capitalised in various balance sheet categories.
7 Income Tax Expense
The Group is subject to income taxes in Canada, Uganda and Russia. All of the Group’s operating activities are outside of Jersey. 
In Oman, the tax rate applicable to the Group’s operations is considered to be nil as in this jurisdiction the Group is subject to a  
production sharing agreement.
In Canada, Uganda and Russia, the Group has available tax deductions of $31,438,808 (31 December 2007 – $37,624,932) and tax losses 
of $93,531,776 (31 December 2007 – $77,749,022), of which $50,915,869 expires from 2009 to 2028, and the remaining $42,615,907 does 
not have an expiry period. No deferred tax assets have been recognised for the benefit of tax deductions and tax losses because realisation 
of the deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future is not sufficiently likely.
Factors affecting current tax charge for the year:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Net loss before tax     (41,303,251) (83,165,595)
Standard tax rate     0% 32.12%
Tax on loss at standard rate     – (26,712,789)
Effect of (higher)/lower tax rates in foreign jurisdiction     (5,436,526) 215,472
Effective weighted average tax rate     13.16% 31.86%
Change in statutory tax rate     626,190 1,165,447
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     117,112 22,010,883
Foreign exchange gains/(losses)     2,055,325 (687 ,333)
Effect of tax losses not recognised     2,637,899 4,008,320
Current tax charge     – –
     As at 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:  
Available tax losses and deductions     26,649,554 24,011,654
Deferred tax asset (unrecognised)     26,649,554 24,011,654 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69
8 Staff Costs
The average number of employees (including Directors) and consultants employed/contracted by the Group during the year, analysed by 
category was:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007
Jersey     2 –
Canada     5 5
Switzerland     – 3
Russia     40 41
Europe     27 14
Uganda     28 21
Kurdistan Region of Iraq     14 5
Tanzania     10 –
South Africa     6 4
Total     132 93
The aggregate payroll expenses of those employees were as follows:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Salaries and other short-term benefits     15,573,451 12,871,099
Share-based compensation     12,080,813  39,001,420 
Total employee remuneration     27,654,264 51,872,519
Capitalised portion of total remuneration     11,435,283  1 4,21 7,495 
Key management compensation was:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Salaries and other short-term benefits     4,448,302 4,263,647
Share-based compensation     7,498,703 28,313,954
     11,947,005 32,577 ,601
9 Disposals
On 9 March 2007, the Group disposed of its previously consolidated 65% interests in Natural Pipelay Worldwide Limited (“NPWL ”) and 
Naturalay Technologies Limited (“Naturalay”) in consideration for 605,000 Common Shares in a private company named SeaDragon.  
The fair value of the Common Shares consideration received of $2,420,000, which was based on the most recent private placement by 
SeaDragon in October 2006, resulted in a gain of $1,077,132 on the disposal. The Group’s CFO is a director and CFO of SeaDragon.
Below is an analysis of the assets and liabilities of NPWL and Naturalay as at 9 March 2007, the date of sale completion:
      9 March 2007 
      $
Assets
Intangible development costs      1,642,868
Liabilities
Trade and other payables      300,000
Net assets      1,342,868
The gain on disposal of the previously consolidated subsidiary has been derived as follows:
      $
Consideration received 
Fair value of shares      2,420,000
Total disposal consideration      2,420,000
Less: carrying amount of net assets sold      1,342,868
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries      1,077 ,132 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 70
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
10 Intangible Exploration Assets
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Balance – beginning of year     102,862,754 54,767,332
Exchange differences     (1,448,654)  251,338
Additions     115,136,798 57,337, 190
Assets transferred to property, plant and equipment (note 11)     (5,204,861)  (9,493,106) 
Balance – end of year     211,346,037 102,862,754
No assets have been pledged as security.
The balances at the end of the years are as follows:
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Russia     11,365,662 18,019,1 7 4
Oman     551,083 550,867
Uganda     130,032,034 74,240,229
DRC     1,506,765 746,219
Kurdistan Region of Iraq     43,404,350 1,622,934
Pakistan     1,560,330 952,406
Malta     8,570,610 6,517 ,779
Mali     1,225,465 213,1 46
Tanzania     13,129,738 –
Balance – end of year     211,346,037 102,862,754
In many of the countries in which the Group operates, land title systems are not developed to the extent found in many industrial countries 
and there may be no concept of registered title. The risk of title disputes associated with the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the DRC and Malta is 
described in note 24. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71
11 Property, Plant and Equipment
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Petroleum and natural gas interests     68,121,295 42,056,745
Drilling and barge equipment     3,544,969 3,544,969
Land and building     11,984,701 11,984,701
Other     15,323,857 14,452,933
Property, plant and equipment, at cost     98,974,822 72,039,348
Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortisation     (10,935,604)  (7,813,430) 
Net book amount     88,039,218 64,225,918
Reconciliation of movements during the year
Petroleum and natural gas interests
Cost – beginning of year     42,056,745 18,091,216 
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – beginning of year     (3,981,438)  (3,051,966) 
Net book amount – beginning of year     38,075,307 15,039,250
Net book value – beginning of year     38,075,307 15,039,250
Exchange differences     (3,426,524)  335,094
Additions     27,533,291 1 4, 137,329
Assets transferred from intangible exploration (note 10)     5,204,861 9,493,106
Depletion and depreciation     (1,290,992)  (929,472) 
Write-down of proved petroleum and natural gas interests     (3,247,078)  –
Net book amount – end of year     62,848,865 38,075,307
Cost – end of year     68,121,295 42,056,745
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – end of year     (5,272,430)  (3,981,438) 
Net book amount – end of year     62,848,865 38,075,307
Drilling and barge equipment     
Cost – beginning of year     3,544,969 3,544,969
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – beginning of year     (2,147,503)  (347,7 4 1 ) 
Net book amount – beginning of year     1,397,466 3, 197,228
Net book amount – beginning of year     1,397,466 3, 197,228
Additions     –  – 
Depletion and depreciation     –  – 
Impairment     (749,955)  (1,799,762) 
Net book amount – end of year     647,511 1 ,397,466
Cost – end of year     3,544,969 3,544,969
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – end of year     (2,897,458)  (2, 1 47,503) 
Net book amount – end of year     647,511 1 ,397,466
Land and building     
Cost – beginning of year     11,984,701 11,984,701
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – beginning of year     (452,329)  (313,151) 
Net book amount – beginning of year     11,532,372 1 1,671,550
Net book amount – beginning of year     11,532,372 1 1,671,550
Depletion and depreciation     (139,178)   (139,1 78)
Net book amount – end of year     11,393,194 11,532,372
Cost – end of year     11,984,701 11,984,701
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – end of year     (591,507)  (452,329) 
Net book amount – end of year     11,393,194 11,532,372
Other     
Cost – beginning of year     14,452,933 2,687 ,590
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – beginning of year     (1,232,160)  (408,520) 
Net book amount – beginning of year     13,220,773 2,279,070 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 72
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
11 Property, Plant and Equipment continued
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Net book amount – beginning of year     13,220,773  2,279,070
Additions     870,924  11,765,343
Depletion and depreciation     (942,049)  (823,640) 
Net book amount – end of year     13,149,648 13,220,773
Cost – end of year     15,323,857 14,452,933
Accumulated depletion and depreciation – end of year     (2,174,209)  (1,232,160) 
Net book amount – end of year     13,149,648 13,220,773
The corporate office which represents the land and building category and the corporate jet included in the other category serve as security 
for long-term loans (note 16).
The carrying value of the drilling rig was written down to nil because management does not expect that there will be significant drilling 
services revenues generated from the use of the drilling rig. This resulted in an impairment write-down of $749,955 (2007 – $1,799,762) 
recognised in the income statement during the year ended 31 December 2008. Impairment tests were performed for development and 
producing assets for a variety of scenarios using after tax discount rates in the range from 10% to 15%. The trigger for the impairment tests 
was a decline in oil and gas prices during 2008. As a result of the impairment test, the carrying value of the petroleum and natural gas 
interest in Oman was written down to its fair value of $28 million. This resulted in an impairment write-down of $3,247,078 (2007 – nil) 
recognised in the income statement during the year ended 31 December 2008. The impairment tests indicated that the fair value of the 
Company’s development and producing assets in Russia significantly exceeds its book value.
12 Other Financial Assets
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Investment in warrants      107,501 1,821,201
Investment in unlisted securities (note 9)     3,223,000 3,223,000
     3,330,501 5,044,201
The investment in Afren Plc warrants is classified as held for trading. The investment in unlisted securities represents common shares in a 
private company named SeaDragon, which is classified as available-for-sale.
There were no other disposals or impairment losses on held for trading or available-for-sale financial assets in the reporting years under 
these financial statements.
The Company owns 805,832 of the unlisted shares of SeaDragon, representing approximately 15% of the shares outstanding. These are 
carried at a value of $4 per share, based on the most recent private placement of SeaDragon on 26 October 2006. At year end, the value of 
the shares could not be measured reliably as SeaDragon is in the process of financial reorganisation and there is a wide range of possible 
values for the shares and the resulting outcome of the alternatives cannot be determined. Management of the Company has no reason to 
believe that the value of the investment in the shares of SeaDragon is lower than the carrying value and, therefore, there is no need for an 
impairment write-down of the Company’s investment in the shares of SeaDragon. The Company does not plan to dispose of its investment 
in shares of SeaDragon in the forseeable future.
13 Trade and Other Receivables
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Trade receivables     3,087 318,417
Other receivables     6,898,424 6,440,844
     6,901,511 6,759,261
Trade receivables are due within 30 days from the invoice date. Joint ventures billings are typically paid within 30 days from the invoice date. 
No interest is charged on the receivables. The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 73
13 Trade and Other Receivables continued
As of 31 December 2008, trade and other receivables of $6,901,511 (31 December 2007 – $6,759,261) were neither past due nor impaired. 
Trade and receivables relate to independent customers and joint ventures partners for whom there is no recent history of default. The 
ageing analysis of these trade and other receivables is as follows:
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Up to 3 months     5,978,468 4,964,480
3 to 6 months     704,588 1,794,781
6 to 12 months     218,455  – 
     6,901,511 6,759,261
Trade and other receivables analysed by category are as follows:
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
US dollars     6,185,267 4,050,828
Russian roubles     567,052 2,064,084
Swiss francs     109,968 528,035
Canadian dollars     5,073 100,032
GB pounds sterling     9,987 16,282
Euros     24,164  – 
     6,901,511 6,759,261
14 Cash and Cash Equivalents
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Cash at bank and in hand     90,620,385 230,089,323
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash held in interest-bearing accounts.
15 Trade and Other Payables Due Within One Year
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Trade payables     45,714,400 14,055,027
Other payables and accrued liabilities     9,037,368 10,591,504
     54,751,768 24,646,531
Trade and other payables and accrued liabilities comprise current amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The 
carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
16 Borrowings
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Non-current borrowings
Convertible bonds – unsecured     141,319,489 137 ,213,27 4
Non-current portion of long-term debt     14,290,493 1 7,040,427
     155,609,982 154,253,701
Long-term debt – secured
Current     595,418 623,640
Non-current     14,290,493 1 7,040,427
     14,885,911 17 ,664,067 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 74
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
16 Borrowings continued
2007 Convertible Bonds
On 16 February 2007, the Company raised $165,000,000 by completing a private placement of convertible bonds. Issue costs amounted  
to $6,979,268 resulting in net proceeds of $158,020,732. The Company issued 1,650 unsecured convertible bonds at par, which have a 
maturity of five years and one day and an annual coupon of 8% payable semi-annually on 17 August and 17 February of each year. 
Bondholders have the right to convert the bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price of $4.70 per share (after one for ten split (note 1)) at any 
time. The number of Ordinary Shares receivable on conversion of the bonds is fixed. The Company had the right to redeem, in whole or 
part, the bonds for cash at any time on or before 16 February 2008, at 150% of par value. This right was not exercised. Proceeds were  
used to finance the redemption of all outstanding 10% convertible bonds issued on 26 March 2006, at a premium of 150% and for general 
corporate funding purposes.
Bondholders have a put option requiring the Company to redeem the bonds at par, plus accrued interest, in the event of a change of control 
of the Company or revocation or surrender of the Zapadno Chumpasskoye Licence in Russia. In the event of a change of control and 
redemption of the bonds or exercise of the conversion rights, a cash payment of up to $19,700 on each $100,000 bond will be made to the 
bondholder, the amount of which depends upon the date of redemption and market value of shares at the date of any change of control 
event. The bonds included conversion features which in certain circumstances could be settled in cash and so these features represent a 
derivative financial instrument which is classified as a liability.
The fair value of the liability component of the bonds (net of issue costs) was estimated at $140,154,215. The fair value of the derivative 
financial liability representing the bondholders’ conversion feature (note 22) (net of issue costs) was estimated at $17,866,517 on 16 February 
2007. The difference between the $165,000,000 due on maturity and the initial liability component is accreted using the effective interest 
method and is recorded as finance costs. The derivative financial instrument is recorded at fair value with resulting gains and losses 
recorded in finance income and costs.
In July 2007, a bondholder with $7 million of bonds gave notice of the exercise of 70 bonds and received 148,937 Common Shares in 
August 2007. As a result of this conversion, $8,944,487 was transferred to Share Capital from convertible bonds, derivative liability 
component of convertible bonds and accrued liabilities.
In April 2009, bondholders with $5.9 million of bonds gave notices of the exercise of 59 bonds. These bondholders received 1,255,317 
Ordinary Shares (see note 26).
Long-Term Debt
In January 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company received a sterling denominated loan of £4.5 million to refinance the 
acquisition of a corporate office. Interest on the loan is fixed at 6.515% for the first five years and is then variable at a rate of London 
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.35%. The loan, which is secured on the property, is scheduled to be repaid by 240 instalments of 
capital and interest at monthly intervals, subject to a residual debt at the end of the term of the loan of $3.5 million (£1,860,000). The current 
principal balance outstanding as at 31 December 2008 was $6,155,882 (£4.2 million) (31 December 2007 – $8,519,037 (£4.3 million)).
In October 2007, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company received a loan of $9,450,000 to refinance the acquisition of the corporate jet. 
Interest on the loan is variable at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% The loan, which is secured on the corporate jet, is scheduled to be repaid by 19 
consecutive quarterly installments of principal. Each installment equals to $117,500 with the final installment being $7,217,500. The 
Corporation provided a corporate guarantee to the lender.
Fair Values
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008, the fair values of borrowings are approximately equal to their carrying amounts as the 
facilities bear interest at market rates of interest.
17 Provisions
The Group’s asset retirement obligation results from net ownership interests in petroleum and natural gas assets including well sites and 
gathering systems. The Group estimates the total undiscounted inflation adjusted amount of cash flows required to settle its asset 
retirement obligation to be approximately $1,331,359, which is expected to be incurred in the period between 2012 and 2024. A cost pool 
specific discount rate, related to the liability, of 9% was used to calculate the fair value of the asset retirement obligation in Uganda and 
Russia (2007 – 9%) and 10% in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in 2008 (2007 – N/A).
A reconciliation of the asset retirement obligation is provided below:
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Balance – beginning of year     170,899 62,322
Additions     526,250 97,737
Revision (due to change in discount rate)      –  3,204
Accretion expense (note 6)     22,659 7,636
Balance – end of year     719,808 170,899 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 75
18 Share Capital
The Company was incorporated under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (as amended) on 6 February 2008. The Company’s authorised 
share capital is an unlimited number of Ordinary Shares without par value. At incorporation, there was one Ordinary Share issued at $42. 
On 22 February 2008, a second Ordinary Share was issued at $41.
As part of the Reorganisation (note 1), the Corporation split its stock such that each existing Common Share of the Corporation was 
exchanged for either ten Ordinary Shares or ten Exchangeable Shares. The Corporation was a US dollar functional currency entity as  
is the Company and therefore the balance of Share Capital was carried forward at its historical amount into the financial statements of  
the Company. The rights of different classes of shares are the same and therefore economically equivalent. As such, Ordinary and 
Exchangeable Shares were treated as one class of shares for loss per share calculation.
Information about movements in share capital issued before the Reorganisation is presented in the table below on the after split basis, i.e. 
taking into account, the one for ten split.
Ordinary Shares
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2008 
|
 31 December 2007
   Number Amount Number Amount 
    $  $
Balance – beginning of year   254,877,480 217,672,243 220,090,330 24,580,984
Issue of shares   2 83 30,000,000 175,963,414
Exchange of the Common Shares for Exchangeable Shares   (4,431,120) (3,784,296)  –   – 
Exchange of the Exchangeable Shares for Ordinary Shares   1,182,012 1,009,470  –   – 
Issued on exercise of stock options (note 21)   230,000 611,555 520,000 1,079,031
Issued on conversion of bonds    –   –  4,267, 150 16,048,81 4
Balance – end of year   251,858,374 215,509,055 254,877,480 21 7,672,243
Special Voting Share
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2008 
|
 31 December 2007
   Number Amount Number Amount 
    $  $
Balance – beginning of year   – – – –
Issued during the year   1 – – –
Balance – end of year   1 – – –
Exchangeable Shares of Heritage Oil Corporation each carrying one voting right in the Company
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2008 
|
 31 December 2007
   Number Amount Number Amount 
    $  $
Balance – beginning of year    –   –  – –
Exchange of Common Shares for Exchangeable Shares   4,431,120 3,784,296 – –
Exchange of Exchangeable Shares for Ordinary Shares   (1,182,012) (1,009,470) – –
Balance – end of year   3,249,108 2,774,826 – –
Balance of Ordinary Shares of the Company and  
Exchangeable Shares of HOC – end of year   255,107,482 218,283,881 254,877,480 21 7,672,243 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 76
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
19 Reserves and Retained Earnings/(Deficit)
(a) Reserves
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Available-for-sale investments revaluation reserve     168,000 168,000
Foreign currency translation reserve     (220,784) 430,580
     (52,784) 598,580
Share-based payments reserve     54,564,393 42,579,779
     54,511,609 43,178,359
Movements  
Available-for-sale investments revaluation reserve  
Balance – beginning of year     168,000  – 
Revaluation      – 168,000
Balance – end of year     168,000 168,000
Foreign currency translation reserve  
Balance – beginning of year     430,580 (4,003)
Currency translation differences arising during year     (651,364) 434,583
Balance – end of year     (220,784) 430,580
Share-based payments reserve  
Balance – beginning of year     42,579,779 2,641,061
Compensation costs – options issued     12,234,715 40,491,888
Transfer to share capital on exercise of options     (250,101) (409,363)
Options forfeited      – (143,807)
Balance – end of year     54,564,393 42,579,779
(b) Retained Earnings/(Deficit)
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Balance – beginning of year     (67,657,170) 15,508,425
Net loss for the year     (41,303,251) (83,165,595)
Balance – end of year     (108,960,421) (67,657, 1 70)
(c) Nature and Purpose of Reserves
i) Available-for-Sale Investments Revaluation Reserve
Changes in the fair value and exchange differences arising on translation of available-for-sale investments such as equities, classified as 
available-for-sale financial assets, are taken to the available-for-sale investments revaluation reserve, as described in note 2k. Amounts  
are recognised in the income statement when the associated assets are sold or impaired.
ii) Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign controlled entity are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described 
in note 2t. The reserve will be recognised in the income statement when the net investment is disposed.
iii) Share-Based Payments Reserve
The share-based payments reserve, as described in note 2u, is used to recognise the fair value of options and LTIP awards issued,  
but not exercised, to employees.
20 Loss per Share
The following table summarises the weighted average Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares used in calculating net earnings per share:
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007
Weighted average Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares
Basic     254,969,021 227 ,504,282
Diluted     256,257,622 237,562,982 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 77
20 Loss per Share continued
The weighted average number of shares has been adjusted to reflect the effective one for ten share split that took place as part of the 
corporate reorganisation described in note 18. The reconciling item between basic and diluted weighted average number of Ordinary 
Shares is the dilutive effect of stock options. A total of 22,232,010 options (31 December 2007 – nil), 4,926,429 of shares relating to the LTIP 
(31 December 2007 – nil) and 33,617,020 of shares relating to the convertible bonds (31 December 2007 – 33,617,020) were excluded from 
the above calculation, as they were anti-dilutive.
21 Share-Based Payments
Stock Options
The Company had a stock option plan whereby certain Directors, officers, employees and consultants of the Group have been granted 
options to purchase Ordinary Shares. Under the terms of the plan, options granted normally vest one-third immediately and one-third in 
each of the years following the date granted and have a life of 5 years. 
As part of the Reorganisation (note 1) the 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme (the “2008 Scheme”) was adopted. The 2008 Scheme 
served as a replacement of the Stock Option Plan of HOC which was cancelled just after the Reorganisation of HOC and its subsidiaries 
companies which occurred on 31 March 2008. Pursuant to the Reorganisation, the HOC optionholders exchanged each outstanding option 
to acquire a Common Share in the capital of HOC for ten options to acquire ten Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company. The HOC 
optionholders were put in substantially the same economic position in the Company that they were in prior to the Reorganisation. The 
exercise prices of the options to acquire Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company are expressed in Pounds Sterling and represent the 
exercise prices of the HOC’s options, expressed in Canadian dollars, translated at the exchange rate at 31 March 2008. 
Information about stock options granted before the Reorganisation is presented in the tables below on the same basis as it is stipulated by 
the 2008 Scheme, i.e. after taking into account the one for ten exchange and translation of exercise prices to Pounds Sterling.
Ordinary Share options outstanding and exercisable:
  Year ended  Year ended 
  31 December 2008 
|
 31 December 2007
    Average  Average 
    exercise  exercise 
   Number price Number price 
   of options (GBP) £ of options (GBP) £
Balance – beginning of year   24,612,010 1.51 8,316,670 1.06
Granted   – – 1 7,232,010 1 .43
Exercised (note 18)   (230,000) 0.89 (520,000) 0.65
Forfeited   – – (416,670) 0.48
Balance – end of year   24,382,010 1.51 24,612,010 1.51
Exercisable – end of year   23,040,343 1.45 15,693,010 1.38
    Number of options 
      Remaining 
Exercise price (GBP)    Outstanding Exercisable life (years)
£0.48    2,000,000 2,000,000 1.39
£0.81    150,000 150,000 2.48
£1.08–£1.43    18,207 ,010 18,207 ,010 2.95
£2.45–£2.51    4,025,000 2,683,333 3.93
    24,382,010 23,040,343 2.98
The share-based payment recognised with respect to the stock options in the period ended 31 December 2008 was $9,805,167 (2007 – 
$40,344,181) out of which $3,671,537 (2007 – $9,043,886) was capitalised.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
On 19 June 2008, the AGM of the Company approved the 2008 LTIP. Under the terms of the plan, the LTIP awards will be in the form of 
full-value shares (Performance Shares), subject to performance and time-vesting conditions. Eligible employees will normally be considered 
by the Remuneration Committee for an award once each year. Awards, made, to the Executive Directors of the Company under the LTIP are 
called First Awards. Participants in the First Award, however, will not be entitled to any further awards until the 2011 financial year. Awards 
will normally be made during the period of 42 days following the announcement of year end or half-year financial results. Exceptionally, the 
First Awards under the plan, on 19 June 2008, were permitted to be made within 42 days following approval of the LTIP at the June 2008 
AGM. 
The plan is intended to apply to Executive Directors and other employees in senior management or leadership roles. By exception, other 
higher performing and high potential employees may be considered for awards. Participants in the LTIP will not be entitled to any further 
awards under the 2008 Scheme. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
21 Share-Based Payments continued
The vesting of shares under award are subject to performance conditions agreed by the Remuneration Committee when the award is 
made. For the First Awards made in 2008 the performance conditions are relative TSR (capital gain plus dividends) performance of the 
Company versus that of a comparator group of international oil companies and a requirement for the share price of the Company to  
have increased by 20% over the vesting period of three years. Furthermore there is an additional holding period of one year following  
the awards vesting. 
The Remuneration Committee in consultation with executive reward consultants, approved grants of shares to Executive Directors, senior 
management and other employees in leadership roles under the LTIP. The maximum annual, individual award for participants who are not 
executive directors is 250% of base package (expressed as the “face value” of the shares). The First Award to executive directors is 1,200% 
of base package for the CEO and 800% of base package for the CFO. 
The First Awards vest after three years provided that the performance conditions are met. The awards granted to senior management  
and other employees in leadership roles are in three tranches that vest after three, four and five years respectively, provided that the 
performance condition is met at that time.
The award would vest in line with the following schedule:
     Senior management and other 
    First Awards employees in leadership role 
TSR Performance vs Comparator Group of 18 companies    proportion vesting award proportion vesting
3rd place and above    100% of the award 100% of the award
4th place    80% 100%
5th place    50% 100%
6th place    30% 100%
7th place and below    0% 100%
9th place (median)    0% 100%
10th place and below     0% 0%
TSR is measured in comparison to a peer group of 18 oil companies selected based on one of, or a combination of, size (market 
capitalisation, revenue, turnover, cash expenditure or a combination thereof), area of operations and country of domicile. The TSR 
measurement is conducted by independent consultants in discussion with the Remuneration Committee. 
Since there are market-related conditions the awards of the shares under LTIP were fair valued using the Monte Carlo model which takes 
into account the market-based performance conditions which effectively estimate the number of shares expected to vest. No subsequent 
adjustment is made to the fair value charge for shares that do not vest in the event that these performance conditions are not met. 
Adjustments are, however, made for leavers. The fair value of the awards is recognised as an employee expense with the corresponding 
increase in equity. The total amount to be expensed is spread over the vesting period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the shares and options. 
The table below summarises the main assumptions used to fair value the awards made under the above LTIP and the fair values of the 
shares granted.
   First Awards 
Award date   19 June 2008 19 June 2008 19 June 2008 19 June 2008
Vesting period   3 3 4 5
Exercise price   nil nil nil nil
Share price at date of grant   £3.45 £3.45 £3.45 £3.45
Expected volatility   40% 40% 40% 40%
Expected dividend yield   0% 0% 0% 0%
Fair value as at grant date   £1.55 £2.49 £2.61 £2.70
Number of shares granted   3,507 ,246 473,061 473,061 473,061
The share-based payment recognised with respect to the awards granted in the period ended 31 December 2008 was $2,429,547 out of 
which $967,632 was capitalised. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 79
22 Derivative Financial Liability
     31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Convertible bond – conversion option     25,785,476 36,739,990
For details of the convertible bonds, refer to note 16.
The fair value of the convertible bonds conversion option has been estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at each period 
end, with changes in the fair value of the conversion option recognised in income during the period. The volatility used in the fair value 
calculation is 56.13% (31 December 2007 – 53.85%).
23 Related Party Transactions
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company incurred transportation costs of $134,978 (31 December 2007 – nil) with respect 
to the services provided by a company indirectly owned by Mr. Anthony Buckingham, CEO and a Director of the Company. 
Mr. Atherton, a Director and CFO of the Company, is also a Director and CFO of SeaDragon. The Group acquired 605,000 Common Shares 
of SeaDragon on 9 March 2007 through the sale of its 65% interest in Pipelay and Naturalay Technologies.
24 Commitments and Contingencies
Heritage’s net share of outstanding contractual commitments at 31 December 2008 was estimated at:
   Less than   After 
  Total 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years 5 years 
  $000 $000 $000 $000 $000
Long-term debt  15,136 595 1,190 7 ,820 5,531
Convertible bonds
3
  158,000 – – 158,000 –
Total repayments of borrowings  173,136 595 1,190 165,820 5,531
Operating leases  8,782 406 649 649 7 ,078
Other long-term obligations
1
  140,000 – 140,000 – –
Work programme obligations
2
  166,053 17 ,446 116,863 31,744 –
Total contractual obligations  314,835 17 ,852 257 ,512 32,393 7 ,078
1 Other long-term obligations represent the minimum financial commitment for the Group to build a refinery in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in accordance with the PSC in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq. On 19 April 2009, the Group was released from the obligation to build a refinery (note 26).
2 Work programme obligation includes minimum required financial commitment for the Group to fulfill the requirements of licences and production sharing contracts. A two year 
extension to the licences on two blocks in Mali was awarded in January 2009. The Company has applied for an extension to the initial exploration period for two blocks in 
Tanzania, which the Tanzanian government has advised it is favourably considering. The Company included $58.8 million relating to Tanzania work programme obligations in 
column “1–3 years”.
3 In April 2009, bondholders with $5.9 million of bonds gave notice of the exercise of 59 bonds. These bondholders received 1,255,317 Ordinary Shares (note 26).
The Company may have a potential residual obligation to satisfy any shortfall in officers’ and former officers’ secured real estate borrowings 
in the event of default, a shortfall on the proceeds from the disposal of the properties and the individuals being unable to repay the balance. 
The value of the residual obligation was estimated as insignificant.
In many of the countries in which the Group operates, land title systems are not developed to the extent found in many industrial countries 
and there may be no concept of registered title. Although the Group believes that it has title to its oil and gas properties, it cannot control  
or completely protect itself against the risk of title disputes or challenges. There can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third 
parties against the Group’s properties will not be asserted at a future date. The Group received a letter from the Iraq Ministry of Oil dated 
17 December 2007 stating that the PSC signed with the KRG without the prior approval of the Iraqi government is considered to be void  
by the Iraqi government as they have stated it violates the “prevailing Iraqi law”. The Directors believe that the PSC is valid and effective 
pursuant to the applicable laws.
In addition, the DRC work programme pursuant to the PSC cannot be commenced prior to the grant of a Presidential Decree from  
the DRC government. There can be no assurance that final approval or ratification will ever be received in respect of the PSC or that  
the pre-agreed fiscal terms will not be re-negotiated at a later date by the DRC government. The Directors are confident that title will  
be confirmed.
Furthermore, the Group received a letter from the chairman of the Management Committee of the National Oil Company of Libya dated  
28 February 2008 stating that the Block 7 licence area lies within the Libyan continental shelf and a portion of this area has already been 
licenced to Sirte Oil Company. This letter also demands that the Group refrain from any activities over, or concerning, the Block 7 licence 
area and asserts the Libyan government’s right to invoke Libyan and international law to protect its rights in the Block 7 licence area. The 
Directors believe that the Libyan government’s claims are unfounded. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 80
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
continued
25 Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities Supplementary Information
     Year ended 31 December
     2008 2007 
     $ $
Capitalised portion of share-based compensation     (4,639,169) (9,043,886)
Non-cash property, plant and equipment additions relating to the capitalised portion of share-based compensation 4,639,169 9,043,886
Disposal of subsidiaries (note 9)     – (1,342,868)
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries (note 9)     – (1 ,077, 132)
Receipt of SeaDragon shares as a proceeds for disposal of subsidiaries (note 9)    – 2,420,000
Receipt of SeaDragon shares as a result of the issuance of the Company’s guarantee for a third party’s debt  – 435,000
Accrual of payable representing the fair value of the Company’s guarantee issued for a third party’s debt  – (435,000)
26 Subsequent Events
On 7 April 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to sell Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited which held a 10% interest in Block 8, Oman, 
for approximately $28 million plus a working capital adjustment. Cash was received on 7 April 2009 and the transaction was completed on 
that day.
In April 2009, in accordance with the option outlined in the PSC in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq the KRG nominated a third party participant 
in the Miran Licence. The Company remains the operator with a 75% working interest in the Miran Licence and will receive the pro-rata 
share of 25% of all past work programme expenditures and the third party is responsible for paying its share of future costs. The transaction 
was completed upon the receipt of approximately $6.7 million in costs incurred by the Company to 31 January 2009. Additionally, the KRG 
has released the Company from the obligation to build a refinery in exchange for making a payment of $35 million from future oil and gas 
sales from the licence. The minimum financial commitment for the Company was $140 million.
In April 2009, bondholders with $5.9 million of bonds gave notice of the exercise of 59 bonds. These bondholders received 1,255,317 
Ordinary Shares. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 81
Glossary of Technical Terms and Definitions
$ US dollars unless otherwise stated
API  a specific gravity scale developed by the 
American Petroleum Institute for measuring 
the relative density of various petroleum 
liquids, expressed in degrees
bbl/bbls barrel/barrels
bopd barrels of oil per day
Bcf billion cubic feet
boe barrels of oil equivalent
1
boe/d or boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day
Company or Heritage Oil Limited a company incorporated 
Heritage  in Jersey on 6 February 2008 and the 
ultimate holding company of HOC and the 
other group subsidiaries
condensate  low density, high API hydrocarbon liquids 
that are present in natural gas fields where  
it condensates out of the raw gas if the 
temperature is reduced to below the 
hydrocarbon dew point temperature of  
the raw gas
DRC the Democratic Republic of Congo
FEED Front End Engineering and Design
Gj gigajoules
Group the Company and all of its subsidiaries
HOC or Heritage Oil Corporation, incorporated in  
Corporation  Canada and a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
the Company
KRG Kurdistan Regional Government
Lead  Potential drilling target that is less well 
defined than a prospect and requires further 
data before being considered a prospect  
for drilling
LPG liquid petroleum gas
LSE London Stock Exchange
m
3
 cubic metres
Mbbls thousand barrels
MMbbls million barrels
Mboe thousands of barrels of oil equivalent
MMboe millions of barrels of oil equivalent
Mcf thousand cubic feet
Mcf/d thousand cubic feet per day
MMBtu million British thermal units
MMcf million cubic feet
MMcf/d million cubic feet per day
MMstb million stock tank barrels
N/A not applicable
NGLs natural gas liquids
Petroleum  any mineral, oil or relative hydrocarbon 
(including condensate and natural gas 
liquids) and natural gas existing in its natural 
condition in strata (but not including coal or 
bituminous shale or other stratified deposits 
from which oil can be extracted by 
destructive distillation)
Possible Reserves  those additional reserves that are less certain 
to be recovered than Probable Reserves. It is 
unlikely that the actual remaining quantities 
recovered will exceed the sum of the 
estimated Proved plus Probable plus 
Possible Reserves
Probable Reserves  those additional reserves that are less certain 
to be recovered than Proved Reserves. It is 
equally likely that the actual remaining 
quantities recovered will be greater or less 
than the sum of the estimated Proved plus 
Probable Reserves
Prospect  Potential drilling target that is well defined, 
usually by seismic data
Proved Reserves  those reserves that can be estimated with  
a high degree of certainty to be recoverable. 
It is likely that the actual remaining quantities 
recovered will exceed the estimated Proved 
Reserves
PSC or PSA  production sharing contract or production 
sharing agreement
psi pounds per square inch
psia pounds per square inch absolute
SPE Society of Petroleum Engineers
WTI West Texas Intermediate
1.  Boes may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A boe conversion ratio of  
6 Mcf:1 Bbl is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable 
at the burner tip and does not represent a value equivalency at the wellhead.
Conversion
The following table sets forth standard conversions from Standard 
Imperial Units to the International System of Units (or metric units).
To convert from To Multiply by
boes Mcfs 6
Mcf m
3
 28.1 7 4
m
3
 Cubic feet 35.494
bbls m
3
 0.159
m
3
 bbls oil 6.290
Feet Metres 0.305
Metres Feet 3.281
Miles Kilometres 1.609
Kilometres Miles 0.621
Acres Hectares 0.405 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 82
List of Advisers
Company Secretary  Woodbourne Secretaries  
(Jersey) Limited
 Ordnance House
 31 Pier Road
 St. Helier
 Jersey JE4 8PW
 Channel Islands
Registered Office Ordnance House
of the Company 31 Pier Road
 St. Helier
 Jersey JE4 8PW
 Channel Islands
Head Office and  Fourth Floor
Directors’ Windward House
Business Address La Route de la Liberation
 Jersey JE1 1BG
 Channel Islands
UK Office  34 Park Street
of the Company London W1K 2JD
 United Kingdom
Financial Advisers JP Morgan Cazenove Limited
 20 Moorgate
 London EC2R 6DA
 United Kingdom
English Legal Advisers McCarthy Tétrault
to the Company Registered Foreign Lawyers & Solicitors
 2nd Floor
 5 Old Bailey
 London EC4M 7BA
 United Kingdom
Canadian Legal Advisers McCarthy Tétrault LLP
to the Company Suite 3300
 421-7th Avenue SW
 Calgary, Alberta
 T2P 4K9
 Canada
Jersey Legal Advisers Mourant du Feu & Jeune
to the Company 22 Grenville Street
 St. Helier
 Jersey JE4 8PX
 Channel Islands
Auditors of the Company KPMG Audit Plc
 8 Salisbury Square
 London EC4Y 8BB
 United Kingdom
Registrars of the Computershare Investor Services
Company (Channel Islands) Limited
 Ordnance House
 31 Pier Road
 St. Helier
 Jersey JE4 8PW
 Channel Islands
Principal Bankers Standard Bank (Europe)
of the Company Bank of Scotland (Europe)
 Barclays Bank
Independent Petroleum RPS Energy
Engineering Consultants Goldsworth House
to the Company Denton Way
 Goldsworth Park
 Woking, Surrey
 GU21 3LG
 United Kingdom
Press Agents Bell Pottinger Group
 6th Floor, Holborn Gate
 330 High Holborn
 London WC1V 7QD
 United Kingdom Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 83
Financial Calendar
Group results for the year to 31 December are announced in April. The AGM is held during the second quarter. Half year results to 30 June 
are announced in August. Additionally, the Group will issue an Interim Management Statement between 10 weeks after the beginning and  
six weeks before the end of each half year period.
www.heritageoilltd.com Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 84
Notes A Balanced Portfolio  
of Diverse Assets
Near term focus on the core activity areas  >
of Uganda and Kurdistan 
High impact exploration plays which can  >
transform the Company
Sufficient oil volumes have been found in  >
the Albert Basin, Uganda, to justify a major 
commercial development  
Medium and longer term focus is Tanzania,  >
where seismic acquisition has recently 
been completed, the DRC, Malta, Mali  
and Pakistan
Production asset in Russia >
Experienced 
Management
Solid understanding of local geology and  >
politics in all areas of operations
Track-record of finding valuable world-class  >
discoveries
Extensive network of contacts  >
Strong oil and gas experience >
Proven Track-Record
Discovered the M’Boundi field in the  >
Republic of Congo in 2001
Raised approximately $100 million from   >
the sale of assets in the Republic of Congo 
between 2002 and 2006
Funds re-invested to acquire current  >
portfolio
Pioneering entry into the Albert Basin,  >
Uganda, in 1997 – we have now unlocked  
a multi-billion barrel basin
Sold Oman holdings in April 2009 for   >
$28 million to fund acceleration of work 
programmes in core areas
Strategic Positioning
Focus on high impact exploration plays >
First mover advantage – as demonstrated   >
by success with significant holdings in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Core areas are Africa, Middle East   >
and Russia
    Exploration (  Operated)
Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”)
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Mali
Malta
Pakistan
Tanzania
Uganda
    Production (  Operated)
Russia
Where we operate Pantone 541 background
Recommend a sealer coat or
a lamination with an open window 
around the embossed logo.
Heritage Logo
Silver Foil Embossed
Heritage Oil Limited
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Heritage Oil Limited is an independent  
oil and gas exploration and production 
company with a primary listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOIL) and Exchangeable Shares 
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOC) and London Stock Exchange 
(symbol HOX). The Company currently 
focuses on operations in Africa, the Middle 
East and Russia.
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Chief Executive’s Q&A
10 Operations Review
 10 Uganda
 14 Kurdistan Region of Iraq
 16 Tanzania
 18  Democratic Republic  
of Congo
 20 Mali
 22 Malta
 24 Pakistan
 26 Russia
Financial Review
28 Committed to Generating Value
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
32 Co-operative Relationships
Board of Directors
34  Board of Directors
Corporate Governance
36 Corporate Governance Report
41 Remuneration Report
47 Directors’ Report
51  Responsibility Statement of the 
Directors
52  Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Heritage  
Oil Limited
Financial Statements
53 Consolidated Income Statement
54  Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income  
and Expense
55  Consolidated Balance Sheet
56  Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
57  Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Other
81  Glossary of Technical Terms  
and Definitions
82 List of Advisers
83 Financial Calendar
Cover page shows Miran Block in Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Head Office and  
Directors’ Business Address:
Fourth Floor, Windward House  
La Route de la Liberation  
Jersey JE1 1BG  
Channel Islands
Tel +44 1534 873000
Fax +44 1534 873344
www.heritageoilltd.com
