 HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk.  
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching. Contents
1 Highlights of 2007
2 Hogg Robinson Group...
how and where we operate
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
9 Hogg Robinson Group...
delivering value
24 Financial Review
32 Directors and Executive 
Management Team
34 Company Information
35 Directors’ Report
39 Corporate Governance
42 Remuneration Report
47 Consolidated Financial Statements
48 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
49 Independent Auditors’ Report
50 Consolidated Income Statement
51 Consolidated Balance Sheet
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
54 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
94 Pro-forma Income Statement
95 Parent Company Financial Statements
96 Independent Auditors’ Report
97 Company Balance Sheet
98 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
104 Shareholder Information
OUR BUSINESS
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) is an award winning
international corporate services company providing 
a range of services which add demonstrable value to 
our clients’ corporate travel and related expenditure.
Totally committed to a value offering, our extensive 
and comprehensive portfolio includes: Corporate Travel
Management, Expense Management, Consulting, 
Events & Meetings Management, and Sports. 
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO HIGHLIGHTS OF 2007
Profits in line with expectations
•
Continuing revenue up 4.8% to £311.4m (2006: £297.2m)
•
Profit before tax from continuing operations increased by 514.3% to £12.9m
•
EBITA up 9.2% to £44.1m (2006: £40.4m)
•
EBITA margin increased to 14.2% (2006: 13.6%)
•
Final dividend of 2.8p per share, to be paid on 1 October 2007
to those shareholders on the register at 31 August 2007
Cash
•
Strong cash flow in the second half of the year
•
Net debt reduced to £104m
Year of transition
•
Listed on London Stock Exchange
•
Rebranded to HRG
•
HRG global network established and now extends to approximately
100 countries of which HRG owns or controls entities in 25 countries
•
Significant new client wins in the second half of the year
•
Client retention rate remains in excess of 90%
Acquisitions 
•
Completed in the USA, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and in the UK 
•
Further infill acquisitions planned in 2007/08 including the announcement
in June 2007 of the acquisition of Belgium based Weinberg Travel
Restructuring and efficiency programme
•
Almost completed in North America
•
Under way in Europe
•
Set to roll out in Asia Pacific in early 2008/09
•
Confident of delivering benefits in the second half of 2007/08
Management confident of prospects
•
Year of growth expected in 2007/08 – weighted towards the
second half of the year
•
New client wins to start contributing
•
Strong sales pipeline 
•
Improving business mix
HRG Annual Report 2007 1
78.9% Europe
17.3% North America
3.8% Asia Pacif ic
REVENUE BY REGION 
[BY SOURCE]
from continuing operations
88.9% Europe
10.0% North America
1. 1 % Asia Pacif ic
EBITA BY REGION
from continuing operations Hogg Robinson Group...
Our strategy 
Our businesses
worldwide
Our key drivers
for growth and
markets
HRG is an international corporate services company which operates five businesses,
through its regionally structured organisation, related to the logistics and cost
control of travel – typically an organisation’s second-largest controllable expense
after salaries. HRG uses its substantial buying, processing and analytical power to
drive down costs for clients while simultaneously maximising service and security
to their travellers. It aligns global systems and reach with detailed local knowledge
in approximately 100 markets worldwide and combines pioneering, integrated
proprietary technology with strong client relationships and personnel development. 
Consulting
HRG Consulting is an independent
division of Hogg Robinson Group
and is involved in the creation and
enhancement of three key areas:
Supplier Programmes, Process
and Analysis.
Suppliers can include airlines, hotels
and ground transport companies
among others. Process involves
analysing, auditing and reviewing policy
to find best practice. HRG Consulting’s
analysis service sets up benchmarking
procedures to view comparative
performance, as well as reporting to
reveal the environmental effects of
future and present travel policy. HRG
Consulting also helps clients with
managing corporate credit cards and
events and meeting companies. 
Expense 
Management
Reporting and analysing
employee expenses has become 
a priority both for procurement
officers looking to reduce costs
and finance departments needing
to establish clear audit trails.
HRG Expense Management offers
user-friendly, multilanguage and
multicurrency solutions powered 
by Spendvision, a leading expense
automation company in which 
HRG has majority ownership. 
The solutions make it easy for
travellers to file expense claims and
employers to reduce associated
processing costs and consolidate
detailed spending data.
Corporate Travel
Management
A core service since 1 945, HRG’s
worldwide network minimises the
cost of travel while maximising
service and security.
As a global market leader, the
buying power of HRG Corporate
Travel Management leverages
outstanding supplier deals
combined with award-winning
account management. Service
options range from online booking
to VIP treatment. Fully outsourced
travel management on behalf of
clients – including assuming
responsibility for their procurement
– is a growing speciality.
Organic growth
Significant new national and
multinational business wins
and extensions to existing
contracts in: 
•
North America
•
Europe 
•
Asia Pacific 
Global expansion
Our global network now
extends to approximately 100
countries with new Partners
from countries such as:
•
Argentina
•
Luxembourg
•
Mexico
•
Netherlands 
•
Tanzania
Acquisition strategy
Acquisitions made in:
•
Czech Republic
•
Slovakia
•
Poland
•
USA
•
UK
•
Belgium (June 2007)
2 HRG Annual Report 2007 Events & Meetings
Management
HRG offers both strategic and
tactical events and meetings
management. 
At a strategic level, it helps clients
understand and control their total
meetings expenditure, which can
prove as large as their spend on
regular corporate travel. 
At a tactical level, it plans and
implements every aspect of
meetings and events, from handling
flights and accommodation to
designing stage sets and hiring
celebrity speakers. 
Sports
With accounts including the
National Basketball Association
and National Hockey League 
of the USA, plus the FIFA World
Cup
TM
2006, HRG Sports looks
after some of the biggest names
in sport.
It handles every aspect of travel
and accommodation for a wide
range of high-profile clubs and
associations, dealing with the
exacting needs of players and
officials and handling large-scale
arrangements for supporters.
...how and where we operate
The problem corporations face in managing their travel budgets is that support
services for the sector are fragmented. HRG fills this gap by being the only
company to operate across the world in all five of its travel-related businesses.
The depth and breadth of these services offer multinational and national clients
a much fuller understanding of what they spend on travel and how to control it.
This allows HRG to provide true strategic support for customers, such as risk
management and understanding travel as a true business investment instead
of simply as a cost to be eliminated.
Service development
Latest initiatives include:
•
HRG Universal Super Platform
•
HRG Online
Key markets
The USA and the UK continue to
be the key driver countries. Other
important markets in Europe, Asia
Pacific and Latin America include:
•
Germany, Switzerland and France
•
China and India
•
Argentina and Brazil 
Our advantage
HRG Annual Report 2007 3
HRG owned Entities Members of the HRG worldwide network On behalf of the Board of Hogg Robinson
Group plc, I am pleased to present results
for the twelve months ended 31 March
2007, the Group’s first annual results since
listing on the main market of the London
Stock Exchange.
This was a landmark year for HRG. 
We continue to pursue our strategy as 
a services company transitioning towards 
a higher margin business providing a
range of products and services which 
add demonstrable value to our clients’
corporate travel and related expenditure.
Revenue and EBITA continue to grow.
There were some challenges associated
with the protracted nature of the IPO
process which impacted the business
more than management had initially
expected. The completion of a successful
IPO was core to HRG’s long-term growth
strategy and a natural step to raise the
profile of the Group and transform it into
a focused, truly global, support services
business. It has also enabled the Group 
to create a more appropriate capital
structure and reduce the deficit of its
defined benefit pension scheme by over
£60m over the last twelve months. 
I am pleased to report that following the
IPO and with a resumed focus on the
business, we have made good progress 
in terms of new client signings, further
details of which are reported in the 
Chief Executive’s Review.
The industry in which we operate is
sometimes susceptible to external
influences. Corporate travel generally 
is sensitive to discretionary client
spending levels which fluctuate with the
economic outlook and concern about
safety issues. In this context, the first half
of the financial year was chiefly a period
of growth in corporate travel owing to 
a robust worldwide economy and the
continuing globalisation of commerce.
There was a modest, temporary
slowdown in certain markets after the
10 August 2006 airport security alert 
in the UK but, during the second half 
of our financial year, volume growth
among existing clients resumed in 
a very competitive environment. 
Among other significant developments
affecting business travel, the European
Union and United States announced an
Open Skies agreement which will enable
all EU and US airlines to operate
international routes between any two
cities connecting the two continents. 
This could create more options for
travellers, as airlines will have the ability 
to operate from cities and regions other
than their traditional home bases, and
provide an opportunity ultimately for HRG
to consult with clients on what it means
for their business and negotiate airline
deals, potentially, on their behalf.
Another trend, originating among UK 
and Nordic clients but starting to spread
elsewhere, is boardroom-level interest 
in how business travel affects the
environment. HRG has developed tools 
to help its clients audit their travel-related
greenhouse gas emissions and HRG
Consulting is providing consulting
services around this subject.
I am pleased to report that the Group
recorded a 4.8% rise in revenues to
£311.4m, resulting in an EBITA for
continuing businesses before exceptional
items of £44.1m, an increase of 9.2% year-
on-year. Client retention levels remain
strong, as anticipated, with levels in excess
of 90%. The European market continued
to be robust and we had a good
turnaround in AsPac. In North America,
where our US and Canadian businesses
have been integrated into one operation
as HRG North America, we saw the
acquisition of Executive Travel Associates
in February 2007 and some significant
new business wins. We have also
announced in June 2007 the acquisition
of Weinberg Travel, a Belgium based
family-owned corporate travel company,
currently trading as HRG Belgium.
As previously reported in the Prospectus
published in connection with the IPO 
(the ‘Prospectus’), the Board remains
committed to our dividend policy and
anticipates that the Company’s payout
ratio (the ratio of the sum of the dividends
declared to the post-tax profit after
minority interests) will be in the range of
50% to 65% in respect of the financial year
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 HRG Annual Report 2007 ending 31 March 2008. In line with this,
the Board has declared a final net dividend
of 2.8p per share, which will be paid on
1 October 2007 to those shareholders on
the register at 31 August 2007.
The Board of Hogg Robinson Group plc
was reconstituted at the time of the IPO
and full details of this were set out in the
Prospectus. In particular, I am pleased 
to report that the Board now includes 
two new highly experienced Non-
Executive Directors, George Battersby 
and Tony Isaac, who is the Group’s Senior
Independent Director. John Kennerley,
Group Finance Director, will be leaving
the Board in the course of the coming
year having made a sterling contribution
over the past seven years and seen the
Company through some major changes.
We are currently searching for a suitable
successor and thank John for his past
contribution and continuing support.
The Company’s Nominations, Audit and
Remuneration Committees were also 
reconstituted at the time of the IPO. 
Each of these Committees complies with
the requirements of the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance and has clear
terms of reference established by the
Board. Full details of the Board’s approach
to governance is set out in the report 
on Corporate Governance on page 39. 
The Company has also adopted 
a clear approach to its corporate social
responsibility with polices which the
Board believes are appropriate to all
relevant stakeholders in the Company’s
performance. Details of these policies are
also set out in the Directors’ Report on
page 38.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues
for their continued support and, on 
your behalf, express my thanks to all of
HRG’s employees without whom this
year’s achievements would not have 
been possible.
John Coombe
Chairman
28 June 2007
HRG Annual Report 2007 5
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2007 2006
£m £m +/-
Revenue 311.4 297.2 4.8%
EBITA 44.1 40.4 9.2%
EBITA margin 14.2% 13.6% 4.2%
Operating profit 35.4 39.3 (9.9)%
Profit before tax 12.9 2.1 514.3%
Cash generated from operations* 41.0 30.6 34.0%
Earnings per share 4.3p 0.5p 760.0%
Earnings per share (pro-forma basis) 6.5p – –
Net debt (104.0) (138.8) 25.1%
All numbers relate to continuing operations only.
Earnings before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation (‘EBITA’) is calculated as operating profit from
continuing operations before exceptional items, including HRG’s share of results of associates and
joint ventures, but before net finance costs, income tax, amortisation and impairment.
*Before special pension contributions.
0
10
20
30
40
50
EBITA
£m
04 05 06 07
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
REVENUE
£m
04 05 06 07 Overview
The financial year ended 31 March 2007 was
one of transition and progress for HRG.
During the course of the year, we continued
the repositioning of the Company as a
provider of services specialising in the
corporate travel and related markets, and
the subsequent rebranding to HRG. In
October 2006, we completed successfully
our Listing on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange.
As stated at our Interim Results, this period
of change started with the announcement
that Hogg Robinson was pursuing an
independent strategy from the one we had
followed previously as a co-shareholder in
Business Travel International (BTI). It transpired
later that, as a result, a number of clients 
and prospective clients postponed their
tender processes while they digested 
the implications of our actions and the
consequences on the industry. In addition,
in the run up to the IPO, we now know that
a number of clients delayed their decisions
until the outcome of the IPO was known.
Fortunately, neither singularly nor in
aggregate were the client losses and the
delay of new clients material and, as also
confirmed during our Interim Results, the
aggregate of new signings versus losses 
was pleasingly much higher. 
The results for the year have also been
positively affected by the cost cutting
measures taken early in the year together
with the impact of a number of other
factors, including the FIFA World Cup™. 
As a result, we grew EBITA from continuing
operations before exceptional items by
9.2%. Our EBITA margin has also grown from
13.6% to 14.2% in the same period as a
result of continuing focus on costs and
improving business mix.
Restructuring and efficiency
programmes
A key part of our strategy is to focus on the
higher value added, ‘managed’type of client
which is more international in nature. In
executing this strategy, we are reducing our
reliance on income from traditional
suppliers such as airlines, towards more
stable, annuity-like income for which clients
pay in respect of the value we add to their
corporate travel and related expenditure.
In order to provide these clients with a more
seamless international service, we are
operationally restructuring HRG from the
traditional ‘country’organisation into three
geographic divisions each headed by a
Regional President. These divisions will
operate increasingly by the main business
streams within which we operate, namely
Corporate Travel Management, Expense
Management, Consulting, Events &
Meetings Management, and Sports, all of
which have a good pipeline of new sales.
We are adopting a phased approach to the
restructuring and efficiency programme,
which originally started in our North
America division with the integration of
the separate businesses within the region.
This programme has now started in Europe
and once this has been completed, we will
embark upon a similar programme early in
2008/09 in our Asia Pacific (AsPac) division.
Although it is difficult to precisely predict
the cost of the European restructuring
programme, not least because of
employment legislation in certain
European countries, we are hopeful of a
net benefit in 2007/08 and a full year
benefit in 2008/09 of between £5m-£7m.
Regional performance
Europe’s strong position within the Group
continues to be driven largely by the UK.
The number of substantial client wins,
including the recently publicised large and
prestigious Ministry of Defence/Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office (MOD/FOC)’s
decision to award us their contract, serves
to underpin our top ranking. 
North America also continues to develop its
service capabilities albeit early sales growth
was slower than previously hoped. This,
combined with start-up and restructuring
costs and the transfer of certain revenues
from North America to Central Revenue
following the introduction of a new global
contract, has resulted in a slight negative
variance of £0.3m in EBITA compared to the
previous year. We anticipate, however, that
the situation will improve in the coming
year as the new structure takes effect and
we benefit from expected new client
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
6 HRG Annual Report 2007 income following a number of recent new
client signings.
The AsPac region has benefited from the
appointment of a new President, Kevin
Ruffles, to bring a more cohesive approach
to sales, technology and service and, as a
result, profits have increased substantially on
the previous year. Although the region is still
the smallest in terms of profit contribution,
it is strategically very important to the way
we function globally. We anticipate growth
from this region in the coming years.
REVENUE 
By source 2007 2006
from continuing operations £m £m
Europe 245.7 239.4
North America 53.9 46.3
AsPac 11.8 11.5
311.4 297.2
EBITA 
Before exceptional items 2007 2006
from continuing operations £m £m
Europe 39.2 36.1
North America 4.4 4.7
AsPac 0.5 (0.4)
44.1 40.4
Global capability
The international corporate travel
management market comprises four main
global players (of which HRG is one) that
have both the experience and the capability
to offer a truly global service. Our acquisition
in June 2007 of Weinberg Travel in Belgium
means HRG will have ownership or control
in 25 countries, supported by a strong,
contracted partner network extending to
approximately 100 countries that we
continue to manage. 
Since launching our HRG brand, when
most of the former BTI Partners joined the
new HRG network, we are delighted with
progress in terms of establishing our
global HRG footprint. Crucially, the
majority of our Partners have worked with
Hogg Robinson since the mid 1990s and
therefore have the expertise and
experience of working in a global
environment with us. We are delighted to
have strengthened the network further by
welcoming new Partners over the last
year including those from Luxembourg,
Mexico, Netherlands and Tanzania.
HRG’s strategy has been to position
ourselves as a rounded corporate services
company offering a range of services
designed to add value to our corporate
clients’ travel and related expenditure.
This strategy is being accepted well in
the market and HRG is included in the
majority of major global and international
tenders. As evidenced by our recent client
wins, we are achieving a pleasing number
of successes. In today’s international
corporate travel marketplace, although
size is still important, it is the value and
knowledge that we bring to our clients in
proven international experience, creativity
and influence, which we believe is
winning many bids.
The range of services we offer is falling
increasingly within the remit of our clients’
procurement departments who, in
addition to the cost benefits we provide
through consolidation of their corporate
travel and related expenditure, are also
recognising our ability to offer a
measurable, quality service in other areas.
Events & Meetings Management is one of
the latest areas where our clients are
focusing their expense consolidation
efforts. In our aim to maximise the
opportunity, HRG has repositioned its
business divisions which are headed up
by industry specialists from both the Events
& Meetings Management and Sports
backgrounds. In addition, our acquisition of
Ian Flint & Associates, a well known and
respected industry consultancy, has
enabled HRG to bring together our
independent consulting capabilities which
we are now expanding globally.
Expense Management is also a significant
potential growth area for us. Our investment
in Spendvision online expense
management processing is already having
the predicted effect of helping us maximise
savings opportunities for our clients.
Client activity
Our client retention rate remained in excess
of 90%. Clients who have retendered and/or
elected to stay with HRG this past year
include Agilent (Global), BMW (Germany),
Bombardier (Canada), Motorola (UK), the
International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF 
in Europe) and UBS (UK/Switzerland).
I am pleased to report that the aggregate
of new signings by far outweighed any
losses in terms of full year effect. New
clients we have welcomed include Credit
Suisse (UK, USA and Switzerland), Daimler
Chrysler (USA), DHL (AsPac), Gambro
(Global), Home Office (UK), KPMG
(Australia), Merrill Lynch (USA), QinetiQ (UK),
PepsiCo (Europe, Middle East and Africa
(EMEA) and AsPac) and the previously
mentioned MOD/FOC. These clients will
contribute in part to 2007/08 but in full 
to 2008/09.
In addition, I am pleased to report that no
significant client has been lost since the
Interim Results.
The sales pipeline for Spendvision, which
represents an important part of the
strategic direction for HRG, is extremely
satisfying. As well as providing expense-
related online corporate processes to our
own clients, Spendvision increasingly
creates own/white-label services for
clients, such as major banks and mobile
telecommunications companies, to offer 
to their customers
These wins have already started to benefit
Spendvision’s financial performance
which we anticipate will make a
substantial contribution to profits in the
full year 2007/08.
Acquisitions
We remain committed to expansion via
acquisitions where these fulfil our
strategic objectives and meet our financial
tests. As a result, in February 2007 we
purchased Executive Travel Associates,
a Washington DC based travel
management company mainly servicing
clients in the legal sector on the East
Coast of the USA. In June 2007, we also
announced the acquisition of Weinberg
Travel, a Belgium based family-owned
corporate travel company. We anticipate
further infill acquisitions in the current
year which we intend to fund from our
existing resources.
HRG Annual Report 2007 7 Acquisitions of travel management
companies were also made during the year
in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia,
and of the consulting business of Ian Flint &
Associates in the UK. These have now all
been fully integrated into their regional
divisions and synergies continue to be
realised as part of the restructuring and
efficiency programme. 
Technology
Technology is a vital component in both our
capability to deliver service and our ability
to generate margin improvement in future
years. Past investments have enabled us to
develop a stand-alone independent
technology platform, HRG Universal Super
Platform, which will be rolled out in Europe
and North America. It will, among other
benefits, enable our front-end booking
processes to link directly to wherever
inventories of air seats, hotel beds and car
rentals are held, giving us the capability to
link directly to airlines, hotel groups, the
Internet and classic global distribution
systems (GDS). The ability to link to an array
of inventory is becoming very important
within our industry as the traditional
relationship between classic reservation
systems and suppliers changes.
Another important technological
development is the linking together of
travel reservation centres in the UK,
Hungary, Sweden, Singapore and Canada.
As clients work around the globe, we are
able to adopt a ‘follow the sun’strategy with
our service centres providing support for
clients regardless of geography or time 
of day.
Airlines in the United States of America and
in the UK have renegotiated agreements
with the GDS through which HRG makes
air, hotel and car reservations. Where
appropriate, HRG has signed opt-in
agreements with the GDS which effectively
reduces our income from them but shields
us from new surcharges certain airlines will
be making for using the GDS. It also
secures necessary access to appropriate
fares and inventory for our clients.
We are known as an innovative company
and our proprietary technology products,
including our traveller tracking capability
and independent data warehousing, are
increasingly well received by our clients 
in this security-conscious age.
Outlook
The first half of our year is generally around
30% of our full year profitability. Although
we expect the full year 2006/07 to be one
of continued growth, the combined effects
of the delay in new client signings
(mentioned previously), lack of World Cup
income and costs of the European
restructuring may mean that performance
in the first half this year could be lower than
in the first half of 2006/07. However, as also
mentioned previously, the benefits of the
restructuring programme in Europe and
the continuing growth in Spendvision 
are expected to drive another year of
satisfactory growth in 2007/08. Our success
will continue to be based on providing
more of our value enhancing solutions to
our geographically diverse client base.
The market remains buoyant albeit, as we
had predicted, very competitive at the low
cost basic transaction end of the business
in some markets. Our recent sales wins,
continuing focus on higher margin products
and our ongoing efficiency programme
mean that we remain confident of the
prospects for the coming year.
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
28 June 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
8 HRG Annual Report 2007 We are now a focused
international services company
offering a range of services
which add demonstrable value
to our clients’ corporate travel
and related expenditure.
At one end of the spectrum
we offer basic transaction
services which are normally
at the lower end of our
margin range and include
such services as booking
reservations, tickets and
itineraries, 24-hour helplines,
VIP booking facility, etc. 
In today’s world, transaction
services also include ‘fulfilment’
(such as ticketing and quality
control) of our clients’ online
bookings. Online represents a
growing proportion of our
transactions with some of our
clients already making more
than 50% of their bookings
through us in this way. 
Other services include the
provision of data, data
warehousing and analytics,
benchmarking of deals,
inventory management (air
seats, hotel beds, limousines,
etc.) and technology solutions.
In addition, our independent
Consulting division can assist
our clients in a wide variety
of ways from analysing the
effectiveness of their travel
policy to managing whole
contract tender processes.
We offer Events & Meetings
Management facilities not
only to our existing corporate
clients but also to third parties.
Through our Sports division,
we are privileged to service
the needs of clients such as
the National Basketball
Association (NBA) in the
USA and Canada, and the
International Ice Hockey
League (IIHL) in Europe.
The latest service addition is
provided via our recent
investment in Spendvision.
Spendvision and HRG Expense
Management provide an online
expense management reclaim
and control process. It is capable
of integrating with our clients’
own systems or alternatively
standing alone. It can also
work as part of an HRG‘end
to end‘ solution in harmony
with our own booking systems
and client management
programmes, or again it can
remain independent as an
expense reclaim and
monitoring process.
Our client base of approximately
3,000 companies includes over
200 corporations which use our
services across more than two
international boundaries, many
of which are household names
and feature in the FTSE 100 
or Fortune 500.
Our philosophy is to offer our
clients a wide range of services
which provide quality solutions
and real value to their overall
corporate travel and related
expenditure.
This has a financial benefit to
HRG as it also means that in
today’s cost conscious and
outsourced world, we are 
able to increase our margins 
by increasing the range of
services to our clients, whilst 
at the same time helping to
reduce their costs.
Examples of how we deliver
value can be found on the
next few pages.
Hogg Robinson has been around as a UK based service
company for over 160 years since its early days as a wine
merchant and insurance broker.
Today’s Hogg Robinson Group is very different.
HRG Annual Report 2007 9
Hogg Robinson Group... delivering value Corporate Travel Management...
In the current commercial climate, there has never been a
greater focus from organisations on managing cost. The use of
specialist skills and expertise to provide control in this area and
ensure employees travel safely and securely has therefore never
been so crucial. HRG Corporate Travel Management has helped
thousands of clients in the past year reduce their purchasing and
processing costs while maximising service to their travellers. 
Going further ...
GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
HRG Corporate Travel Management drove down this
multinational client’s travel operating costs in 18 countries by
18% in the year to March 2007. It achieved this by helping the
client push up usage of online bookings and consolidating all
telephone bookings through just two reservation centres –
one in Budapest and one in Bristol.
The Budapest and Bristol centres are organised by type of booking. If the
trip is a simple one, it is routed to Budapest, where labour costs are lower.
If the booking is more complex (such as a trip that includes several
destinations on one itinerary), it is routed to Bristol.
Until the Budapest centre opened in March 2006, HRG Corporate Travel
Management handled the client’s reservations through five main consolidated
service centres. The new arrangement creates savings through economies of
scale as well as lower labour costs. Another crucial benefit is that consolidation
gives the client tighter control over travel policy and business processes. 
The Budapest centre handled 21,000 transactions for this client in its first
year of operation. All staff have travel industry and/or airline call centre
experience. With the support of the HRG management structure they have
been thoroughly trained to deal with the idiosyncrasies of the markets for
which they make reservations.
18%
SAVING IN 
2006/07
HRG Corporate Travel 
Management drove 
down the client’s travel
operating costs across 
18 countries by 18%
in 2006/07
10 HRG Annual Report 2007 ...delivering value
GLOBAL BANK
The client selected HRG Corporate Travel Management
in 2004 to manage its travel programme, which in 
2006 exceeded £100 million in 27 countries worldwide. 
HRG Corporate Travel Management proposed a 
savings guarantee of £3 million in Year1 of the deal 
and a further £1 million each in Year 2 and Year 3.
This was a highly ambitious target because the client already had 
a mature programme. HRG Corporate Travel Management substantially
out-performed this goal, saving a total of £7.8 million by the end of
Year 2. The client set a new, much tougher definition of savings for
Year 3 (2006), but again HRG Corporate Travel Management exceeded
its target with a saving of c. £2.8 million. The client awarded HRG
Corporate Travel Management bonuses and extended the contract
for a further two years without re-tendering.
Savings were achieved through a combination of reducing travel
processing costs, finding lower average air fares and hotel rates, and
above all through driving up usage of the client’s preferred suppliers.
HRG Corporate Travel Management improved compliance by
introducing technology that highlighted at point of sale which
booking options were within policy. Travellers were offered a
negotiated fare or rate as their first choice. If a negotiated deal was
not available, HRG Corporate Travel Management offered travellers
the best price on the day instead. If travellers rejected the deals they
were offered, their refusals were noted in policy exception reports.
HRG Corporate Travel Management also drove down average fares
through the fare-finding expertise of its consultants and specialist
HRG Fares Audit department. In addition, the policy exception
reports enabled HRG Corporate Travel Management to spot gaps in
the coverage of the client’s existing deals and negotiate agreements
with suppliers on those routes.
GLOBAL
PHARMACEUTICALS
COMPANY
This client decided to outsource every
aspect of its travel programme to 
HRG Corporate Travel Management.
The outsourcing works on three levels:
Level 1. Service provision – a dedicated team
handles all reservations and service issues, such as
dealing with lost baggage. Although effectively 
acting as an internal department, the team are
employees of HRG.
Level 2. Supplier management – HRG Corporate
Travel Management negotiates, measures and
manages the client’s entire travel supplier programme.
Level 3. Corporate structure – HRG Corporate Travel
Management is set the same savings targets as the
rest of the client’s purchasing teams and it is
accountable to the client’s finance department.
The benefits of this arrangement are complete clarity
regarding savings objectives and a drastic reduction in
the amount of time the client spends managing travel. 
Outsourcing is saving the client 8% annually in supplier
costs and 7% in management costs – equivalent to a
high seven-figure sum each year. This is in spite of the
client already having a highly mature, award-winning
programme before outsourcing to HRG Corporate
Travel Management.
HRG Annual Report 2007 11 Corporate Travel Management...
12 HRG Annual Report 2007
MAJOR INTERNATIONAL 
FINANCIAL SERVICES ORGANISATION
This client has a very large travel requirement – in
the region of 35,000 air bookings per annum in the
UK alone. Best suited for straightforward point-to-
point journeys, the client selected HRG’s proprietary
technology for its online booking tool. This was a
natural progression from the HRG ‘look no book’
system already in place.
Within two months of the decision to purchase the online booking
tool, the product went live. However the client did not mandate
the use of the tool, providing the option of a telephone based or
online method of booking for their staff. This was a limiting factor
in driving up the tool’s usage, but was in line with the client
organisation’s culture.
The HRG Business Manager coordinated the implementation and
focused on training and educating travel bookers. A dedicated
helpdesk assisted with any initial queries during the immediate
launch and post-launch period to provide additional support to
the Business Manager. There is ongoing communication with
travel bookers to share information such as new features and
developments in the online booking tool and reminders of
training and refresher sessions. 
As mentioned above, the client does not use an official
mandate, but some divisions do proactively manage cost savings.
The Business Manager also provides a variety of reports to the
client including adoption by business area each month and
Actual Savings and Opportunity Savings by division. This type
of information can be used by Business Heads to drive
behavioural change and consequent budget savings. For example,
the internal travel approval form asks if the booking was made
online, and requires a reason if it wasn’t.
The system was introduced in 2004 and by 2006 usage had reached
58% of all eligible bookings, peaking at 72%. This reduced the number
of ‘shopping’ calls to the travel office and the associated cost. It was
estimated that client savings from using the tool equated to the cost
of c. 7 staff. HRG has worked closely with the client, listening to their
feedback and incorporating enhancements in the tool’s development
schedule. For example, the January 2007 release included the ability
to download itineraries to an electronic diary. The feedback from
users to the upgrade has been extremely positive.
The success of the system in the UK encouraged the client to
implement the tool in their Swiss offices in February 2007, with roll
out to further European markets planned for later in the year.
35,000
AIR BOOKINGS
This client has a very large
travel requirement – in the
region of 35,000 air bookings
per annum in the UK 
alone. It selected HRG’s 
proprietary technology for
its online booking tool. ...delivering value
HRG Annual Report 2007 13
LEADING INTERNATIONAL BANK
A leading international bank awarded HRG its
corporate travel contract in the AsPac region.
The countries included were: Australia, Hong Kong,
India, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand. 
The client wanted a smooth, phased implementation throughout the
region within three months incorporating some specific objectives
which included compliance to travel policy, traveller security, analysis
and possible implementation of an online tool.
The client’s travel policy highlighted traveller comfort as the highest
priority, allowing business class transfer on both long and short flights
for journeys starting in the afternoon. This limited the opportunity for
cost savings.
The combination of implants (travel offices based on client premises)
and outplants (travel offices based on HRG premises) across the region
presented a communication challenge to ensure that all HRG travel
consultants had consistent in-depth knowledge of the client’s
organisational structure and personnel.
The HRG Regional Business Manager worked together with the 
client’s Regional Travel Manager to highlight areas where further
value could be delivered within the parameters of the client’s policy.
Pre-authorisation must now be obtained prior to selection or use of
non-preferred suppliers resulting in greatly reduced non-compliance.
This controlled approach boosted the confidence of the client’s
preferred carriers, leading to improved negotiated rates.
Security considerations were of vital importance. Having vigorously
tested HRG Travel Watch against other products in the market, this
solution was selected as the preferred crisis management tool. As the
client selected a high touch (personal) service solution, HRG advised
against implementing an online booking tool for the foreseeable future.
The implementation across the region over three months was
successful. The smooth transition has resulted in greater policy
compliance, stronger regional data and consolidated spend for
the client, which has now engaged HRG Consulting to provide 
a global hotel programme.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ORGANISATION
This government organisation provides expertise to
developing countries throughout the world, often in
locations well off the beaten track for business travel. 
HRG has been its travel partner since 2002, with the contract extended
to 2010. HRG has two on-site staff at the client’s headquarters in
Ottawa, Canada and also provides a branch service in Uruguay,
Senegal, Kenya, India and Singapore.
Travel to the developing world throws up particular challenges which
HRG meets daily. 
HRG’s traveller tracking service, HRG Travel Watch, is available to
pinpoint the whereabouts of travellers if a crisis breaks. HRG can
also provide emergency assistance through its worldwide network
of offices. Due to the nature of the clients’ activities there is little routine
travel. Its complex arrangements are potentially expensive but skilled
HRG staff achieve significant air fare reductions through expert research
and fare construction techniques.
HRG has consolidated data on the organisation’s worldwide travel
expenditure for the first time, giving it a true picture of how much 
it spends with each airline. As a result, HRG helped the client negotiate
an up-front discount of $440,000 with one particular carrier. The client 
is deeply involved in environmental issues. HRG helps them by tracking
the carbon emissions caused by the institute’s air trips and managing
the process for the purchase of carbon offset credits.
$440,000
DISCOUNT
HRG consolidated data 
on the organisation’s 
worldwide travel expenditure 
for the first time, giving it 
a true picture of how much 
it spends with each airline. 
As a result, HRG helped the
client negotiate an up-front
discount of $440,000. Expense Management...
Seamless control...
MAJOR GOVERNMENT
ORGANISATION
During financial year 2006/07, this organisation
became the launch client for a pioneering new
tool from HRG. It allows travellers to plan, obtain
approval for and book a trip on a single system,
then use exactly the same system to create and
submit an electronic expense report.
This tool breaks new ground because until now
companies have generally bought separate
tools for booking and expense management.
The new product covers the entire life-cycle of a
trip, from policy to reimbursement, so that the
differentiation between booking and expense
tool becomes almost irrelevant.
This creates important benefits both for travellers
and their managers. Travellers benefit because
they can see the status of trips and expense
reports side by side, make bookings that flow
immediately into expense reports, and learn how
to use the entire system just once. Other costs are
imported automatically from corporate card
expenditure and then topped up with out-of-
pocket expenses. 
Travel managers and budget holders benefit
because they have full visibility of what has been
spent and is about to be spent. They also need to
create only a single set of policy rules and the
workflow for approving trips is vastly simplified.
14 HRG Annual Report 2007
This tool breaks new ground because
until now companies have generally
bought separate tools for booking
and expense management. The new
product covers the entire life-cycle
of a trip, from policy to reimbursement,
so that the differentiation between
booking and expense tool becomes
almost irrelevant.
HRG Expense Management helps clients control their expense
reporting online using technology provided by Hogg Robinson
subsidiary Spendvision. The process saves time for employees and
greatly improves visibility of expenditure for employers, who can
tailor the system precisely to their business rules.
But this is just the beginning for the Spendvision platform, which now manages transactions for
over 190,000 companies worldwide either directly or in white-labelled versions. Spendvision takes
Hogg Robinson Group in a major new strategic direction because organisations such as banks and
telecommunications companies are over-branding the technology to sell expense-related products
to their customers. At the same time, Spendvision is reaching new markets through its integration
with HRG’s online booking tool to offer clients a true end-to-end automated travel and expense
management capability across the HRG worldwide network. HRG Annual Report 2007 15
...delivering value
BANK – AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND
For more than five years Spendvision 
has partnered with this organisation 
to deliver a white-label automated
expense management solution to
customers in Australia and New Zealand.
The solution is sold by the bank direct to its
customers in its own image. The Spendvision
solution appealed to the bank as there were no
software or hardware costs for the customer to
incur and Spendvision would continue to host 
the server and manage functional releases, 
second level support, and provide technical
assistance to meet customer specific needs. 
The partnership forged with Spendvision has
presented extensive benefits to the bank, with
many beyond the straight financial impact. The
solution is sold directly to corporate customers 
via the Corporate Services team within the bank.
This provides not only an additional revenue
stream but also adds significantly to the value
proposition they can take to customers for whom
they are offering business solutions. 
Through working in partnership with Spendvision
the bank is able to offer its customers an advanced
solution that is constantly being upgraded to
incorporate the latest technology. The bank does
not need to invest time or resources to ensure
their branded solution is offering leading edge
functionality to its customers. Instead this is left to
the Spendvision team and the benefits can be
realised by the bank.
All Spendvision functionality is available 
in the client’s branded solution, however,
Spendvision has been able to customise the
solution to allow it to integrate with other bank
products. The client has a valuable point of
differentiation in the market. They are unique 
in their ability to provide their own branded
leading edge expense management solution to
their customers.
The long-term partnership with the bank
continues to prosper with a growing customer
base and increasing financial benefit to both
organisations. Consulting...
Businesses worldwide are increasingly recognising the value 
of consulting highly specialised subject matter experts about
sourcing and other corporate service tasks. HRG Consulting 
saw its work grow in 2006 as a direct result of this trend 
gaining traction in corporate travel purchasing. Operating 
independently, HRG Consulting is frequently hired by clients
which do not retain HRG as their travel management company.
Fresh thinking that delivers...
16 HRG Annual Report 2007
GLOBAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY
This client hired HRG Consulting to source its hotel suppliers in
19 countries. In spite of the client already having a well-run hotel
programme, HRG Consulting cut its average rates by an additional 2%
at a time of steep rises in accommodation costs worldwide. The rate
reductions provided a return on investment of 20 times the project fee.
One example of its success was in London, where HRG Consulting
consolidated the client’s corporate relationships to seven key
properties. In each case, HRG secured a rate cut, in spite of average
hotel rates in the UK capital rising 8% in 2006 (source: HotelBenchmark
Survey by Deloitte).
Overall, HRG Consulting managed 910 requests for proposal in 
19 countries. Tasks included tracing and analysing spending data,
benchmarking against performance of the client’s peers, conducting
the RFPs and providing negotiating strategy and support. Another
major achievement was to secure two-year deals for 80% of the
multimillion pound programme, even though hotels are generally
reluctant in the present seller’s market to agree contracts of more 
than twelve months.
This project was typical of a growing trend for large multinational
businesses to outsource much of their travel sourcing to subject matter
experts such as HRG Consulting. This gives the client the simpler task 
of managing a contract with a single corporate services provider
instead of with hundreds or even thousands of suppliers.
Another major HRG achievement
was to secure two-year deals for
80% of the multimillion pound
programme, even though hotels are
generally reluctant in the present
seller’s market to agree contracts of
more than twelve months. ...delivering value
BOOKING TOOLS, 
CORPORATE CARDS, 
THE ENVIRONMENT, 
CAR HIRE...
The past year has seen HRG Consulting take on
projects in several other fields beside air and hotel
sourcing. These include:
•
Online booking – helping clients evaluate the
potential return on investment in a self-service
reservations tool for their travellers. Also includes
the study of behavioural changes, the need to
achieve high adoption rates and the evaluation
of tools in the marketplace.
•
Corporate card sourcing – HRG Consulting 
has helped multinational clients to choose 
a consolidated corporate payment card provider
for travellers in multiple markets. This helps the
clients achieve greater visibility of their travel
expenditure and earn better incentives from 
the card provider.
•
Environmental consulting – HRG Consulting
has tracked carbon emissions for clients and
advised on travel avoidance measures (such
as switching from air to rail) and carbon-
offsetting options.
•
Policy – clients have called in HRG Consulting 
to write and review their travel policies.
•
Car rental – After five years of flat pricing, 
car rental rates rose sharply in 2006, leading 
to several companies commissioning HRG
Consulting to conduct formal sourcing exercises
on their behalf.
HRG Annual Report 2007 17
GLOBAL PREMIUM DRINKS BUSINESS
HRG Consulting renegotiated this company’s agreements 
with airlines in ten countries. Once again, in spite of the client
already having a mature programme, HRG Consulting helped 
it realise 3.2% in additional savings.
The new deals provided a return on investment of 50 times the 
cost of the project and a budget reduction of millions of pounds.
The Consulting team took the innovative approach of asking airlines
to bid for a specified market share on each route. Not only did this
avoid the cumbersome task of matching up market share pledges 
to different suppliers later in the process, it also ensured the client
could not over-commit itself. This was a crucial point because airlines
are changing their attitude towards corporate clients and are now
much stricter about holding them to contractual commitments.
The final negotiations saw the client striking deals with 23 different
carriers, some of them niche carriers it had never considered before.
Introduction of these new competitors, combined with hard
negotiation, enabled HRG Consulting to achieve improved terms
with the client’s long-standing airline suppliers as well. Events & Meetings Management... 
Sometimes described as the ‘final frontier’ of travel management,
businesses are increasingly understanding their expenditure
on meetings, incentives, conferences and events is similar to
what they spend on regular corporate travel. HRG Events &
Meetings Management helps clients control these costs through
strategic supplier management as well as organising events on
an individual basis.
1 ,500
The launch event 
of the Audi R8 ran over
two nights, with an
audience of 1,500
clients, dealers and VIPs.
Bringing events to life...
AUDI R8 LAUNCH
Audi commissioned HRG Events & Meetings
Management to launch its two-seated Audi
R8 sports car in Sweden in January 2007. 
HRG Events & Meetings Management responded
by creating a high-octane production to match
the glamorous image of its client’s new model.
The team scouted for a suitable location and
eventually found a former printing plant in
Stockholm, big enough to show off not only the
R8 but several other cars in the Audi range. The
event ran over two nights, with an audience of
1,500 clients, dealers and VIPs being entertained
by pop stars, comedians, food from a local celebrity
chef and numerous cases of Taittinger Champagne.
The climax of each evening saw a live symphony
orchestra accompany a film of the R8, followed by
an unveiling of the vehicle.
HRG Events & Meetings Management designed,
planned and managed the event from start to
finish. It generated extensive media coverage 
for Audi and even resulted in an unexpected
bonus of on-the-spot sales of several cars over 
the two nights. 
“With excellent
planning, including a
very creative dialogue
with HRG, secure
operations from the
team, together with 
a fantastic moderator
and happy customers,
we feel very satisfied.
We have received
extremely good
feedback from many
very impressed
customers. ”
JENS WETTERFORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
VD AUDI SWEDEN
18 HRG Annual Report 2007 ...delivering value
WORLD TRADE CENTERS
ASSOCIATION
Although the best-known and original World Trade
Center was destroyed tragically in New York on 9/11,
nearly 300 other locations bear the same name in
85 countries worldwide. Each has the mission of
bringing together businesses and government
agencies involved in foreign trade.
HRG Events & Meetings Management has organised
meetings for their governing body, the World Trade
Centers Association, since 2004. During the financial
year 2006/07, it was selected to manage the WTCA’s
2007 annual general meeting, scheduled for New
Orleans this October. Among the tasks for which
HRG Events & Meetings Management is responsible
are creating and running the meeting’s online
website, handling air and hotel bookings, organising
the social activities, providing marketing support
(including brokering sponsorship deals) and
managing the event on-site.
Having suffered the tragedy of 9/11 directly, the
WTCA decided to hold its meeting in New Orleans
to show solidarity with another stricken city and
help to revitalise its economy. However, with much
of New Orleans still to be rebuilt, organising a
convention there posed some additional challenges
for HRG Events & Meetings Management. These
included identifying a hotel that has resumed full
operations, finding restaurants large enough to
handle all the delegates and sourcing reliable
ground transportation.
Merck Frosst 
Canada has been 
so pleased with 
the performance 
of HRG Events 
& Meetings
Management that 
it has extended 
the contract 
without going 
out to tender.
MERCK FROSST CANADA
HRG Events & Meetings Management’s relationship with Merck Frosst
Canada demonstrates how it is evolving way beyond organising one-off
events for clients to managing their entire meetings strategy. Traditionally,
businesses have struggled to measure or control this significant, largely
unmonitored cost. Meetings are booked ad hoc by secretaries or executive
assistants with little experience of the pitfalls involved in negotiating contracts.
By booking independently in this way, organisations also fail to capture data 
on expenditure for use in future supplier negotiations.
Merck Frosst Canada, a research-based pharmaceuticals company, has solved
this problem by outsourcing its meetings management to HRG Events &
Meetings Management. All meetings of ten persons or more, whether internal
or external, have to be booked through an on-site team of HRG Events 
& Meetings Management personnel. The team is responsible not only for
handling the logistics of each meeting but also negotiating and managing
contracts with hotels.
This arrangement gives Merck Frosst Canada full visibility of its meetings
spend. It means, for instance, that the company knows if two different
events are planned for the same city, enabling it to approach a hotel for
an even better deal. 
On the contractual side, HRG Events & Meetings Management has helped 
the client avoid onerous cancellation clauses by converting financial penalties
into credits. At the same time, the presence of the HRG Events & Meetings
Management team gives Merck Frosst Canada employees a fast, painless way 
to book meetings, allowing them to concentrate on their core tasks.
300
LOCATIONS IN
85 COUNTRIES
World Trade Centers operate from 
300 locations worldwide in 85
countries. HRG Events & Meetings
Management has organised meetings
for their governing body since 2004.
HRG Annual Report 2007 19 Sports... 
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
Transporting any sports team carries unique logistical
challenges, but when the average height of the passengers is
6ft 6in, it calls for some very special arrangements indeed.
2007 saw the tenth anniversary of managing the air charter programme for the
USA’s National Basketball Association. Fourteen teams used the programme to
travel to their away matches for the 2006/07 season. NBA teams work to a tight
schedule, playing 82 games in a season between 1 November and 20 April.
The intensive timetable and need for maximum rest between games means
chartered air travel is the only realistic transport option available.
HRG Sports acts as managing agent for a fleet of six aircraft that are identically
configured and customised to meet the needs of the athletes. With some players
more than 7ft tall, the seats are built with extra leg room and each aircraft has a
fitted treatment table to allow in-flight physio work. There is also a specially
installed video system for coaches to review recordings of games with their
squads and develop strategies for their next opponents.
Other requirements handled by HRG Sports include arranging customised
catering for players’ carefully controlled diets and negotiating the use of private
airport terminals so teams can arrive and depart with the minimum of fuss.
HRG’s responsibilities to the NBA also include ensuring the aircraft operator
performs to time and budget, and managing conflicts within the schedule.
When the aircraft are not transporting member teams, HRG works in conjunction
with the operator to sell ad hoc charter opportunities to other clients, sharing
the incremental profit with the NBA.
HRG Sports acts as travel provider for the NBA’s growing programme of
international events. In 2006, it handled air and VIP arrangements for four 
teams as they played exhibition games in six European cities over ten days.
From the FIFA World Cup
TM
2006 to America’s National Basketball
Association and National Hockey League, HRG Sports organised
travel for many of the biggest sporting highlights of last year. 
The Company managed demanding flight and hotel schedules for
leading sports stars while handling large-scale assignments such as
booking one million bed nights for football fans visiting Germany.
Shared passion...
20 HRG Annual Report 2007 ...delivering value
3
,
500
SUPPORTERS
The most testing logistical
challenge was the near-
simultaneous arrival of 
3,500 Mexican supporters at
Düsseldorf airport, who had 
to be transferred immediately 
in six exclusive charter trains
and 85 buses to the stadium
at Hanover for a match
against Angola.
FIFA WORLD CUP
TM
2006
The FIFA World Cup
TM
was the largest sporting event of 2006. HRG Sports handled
hotel reservations for a record one million guests during the tournament. It also
looked after travel and accommodation for the 32 participating teams as well as
officials, sponsors and many other VIPs. 
The start of the HRG financial year in April 2006 coincided with HRG Sports overseeing the final stages 
of a tour of all 31 visiting competitor countries by Franz Beckenbauer, head of the Organising
Committee. The following month saw the arrival of the first squads from overseas, all but one of them
choosing a base camp for training and accommodation from a list of 110 options that had been
researched, selected and negotiated by HRG Sports. 
The tournament started in June, prefaced by a parade of FIFA Former World Champions, with HRG
Sports arranging their travel too. At the same time, HRG Sports handled the reservations of one million
beds for visitors from 75 countries. Brazilian fans led the way, accounting for 52,000 room nights.
HRG Sports was responsible for the entire logistical planning and organisation. In addition, HRG Sports
organised the official travel for supporters from numerous countries including Brazil, England, France,
Italy, Mexico and Trinidad & Tobago. The most testing logistical challenge was the near-simultaneous
arrival of 3,500 Mexican supporters at Düsseldorf airport, who had to be transferred immediately in six
exclusive trains and 85 buses to the stadium at Hanover for a match against Angola.
Looking after the transport of the competing teams included arranging 164 charter flights. HRG Sports
also took care of the travel needs of many people working at the games, from the pool of 100 referees
and match officials to venue support staff. Logistics for the entire operation were handled by 160 HRG
employees in Frankfurt backed by more than 800 field staff at the 12 different venues.
HRG Annual Report 2007 21
800
FIELD STAFF
Logistics for the entire 
operation were handled 
by 160 HRG employees in
Frankfurt backed by more
than 800 field staff at the 
12 different venues. In the
peak period HRG supported
more than 20,000 guests
at the same time. Technology & People... 
HRG’s proprietary technology is designed to exploit increasing
market complexity to client advantage, sustain the development 
of new products and services and reduce operating costs.
Platform for success...
22 HRG Annual Report 2007
In an increasingly complex and constantly changing
environment, it has never been more important that
organisations are in control of their Travel & Expense
(T&E) budget. The need to obtain best value air fares
and hotel rates is paramount, as is social
responsibility, employee security and the ever-
increasing need for timely and accurate information
to support both global and local decisions. It is
essential that the best technology is available to meet
these needs and the many other demands facing
travel programme managers.
As a corporate services company, HRG has been
driven and touched at every point by technology.
Technology in the area of travel management has
historically been ‘provided’ and driven by suppliers.
However, HRG recognised some time ago that in
order to deliver the products and services clients
required in the future, something radically different
was required. This meant the creation of a new
technology business platform, HRG Universal Super
Platform (USP). Developed in-house, HRG USP is
based on leading-edge industry standard technology
and provides one seamless international environment
for all services. HRG’s strategy of designing and
building the platform in-house provides the flexibility
required to meet specific client needs while also
delivering the benefits of global coverage and
consistent standards. Both in-house and third-party
products and services can be integrated with the
platform to achieve a tailored solution. 
The fundamental value of this new platform comes
from its ability to retrieve and manage travel content
from various sources and adapt to industry change.
Relevant data is supplied to users whether they are
travellers, travel programme managers or HRG staff.
The platform itself is not visible to users, but the
outputs from it are. So, when deployed, travel
consultants will see a screen on their point-of-sale
system, travellers can view an online booking tool
and travel programme managers have access to
tailored reports. HRG USP is in the background,
driving all of these applications and many more. 
The benefits of the flexibility and control HRG USP 
offers are substantial. It has the ability to provide air
fares from multiple sources, such as Global
Distribution Systems (GDS) and the Internet, as well
as providing access to specially negotiated individual
client fares and rates. HRG USP gives access to the
best possible deals from the widest possible market
through one single source. It is designed to link
content providers (GDS and non-GDS), third-party
systems and the travel booker. This breadth of
content is essential for corporate clients.
HRG USP will provide the opportunity for
international standardisation of process and sharing
of best practice, supporting the Company’s ability to
drive down operational cost and manage the
processing of transactions with increased efficiency. 
It also provides the platform for delivery of future
products and services internationally. The marriage 
of this technical capability with the specialist skills
and expertise of our staff will serve to continue the
creation of value for both client organisations and 
our shareholders.
HRG USP
Client
Consultant
Administrator
Inventory
and
content
providers
Control Centre
Third party
systems
The fundamental value of
this new platform comes
from its ability to retrieve
and manage travel content
from various sources, and
adapt to industry change. 
HRG Universal Super Platform (USP) ...delivering value
At HRG we truly recognise that our staff are central to the value 
delivered to our clients. Our reputation for service excellence has
been proven time and time again – we provide an environment 
where individual ability and team working are combined to 
deliver outstanding results on a consistent basis. 
Our biggest asset...
It’s not only the many awards we have won over the
years that stand testament to this fact, but also our
clients. With an impressive portfolio that encompasses
multinational corporations and national companies, HRG
has delivered solutions to some of the most prestigious
corporations around the world for many years.
So what is it that enables our people to deliver
outstanding results?
Empowered global management 
and delivery structure:
HRG has a management philosophy and structure that
encourages its people to deliver for clients globally
through established client teams that are empowered
to take decisions and action across markets – led by an
assigned senior sponsor.
HRG culture – how we see ourselves and 
what we expect of our people:
HRG culture places the utmost priority on ownership 
of customer satisfaction across all client-facing and
central functions and among staff at all levels. We view
motivation rather than accountability as the key factor
behind successful ‘ownership’ of any given situation.
Equally we expect our people to challenge
management and existing practice, safe in the
knowledge that this is a cultural norm and expectation
within HRG. We want to recruit and retain people who
will challenge and want to change. We see them as 
the life-blood of the organisation.
HRG offers all employees the opportunity to make 
a difference, to be an individual and not just one 
of a crowd, to have a face in the organisation. 
We actively encourage our people down a path of
continuous improvement and expansion of their 
skills and knowledge.
HRG’s commitment to reward and recognition:
•
Staff Hospitality Programme: The Company boxes at
Ascot, Twickenham and The Oval are used for dedicated
staff days. Each summer, members of the Executive
Management Team hosts a fun-filled day for employees
powerboating on the English Channel, providing the
perfect platform to meet colleagues from around the
world in a friendly and relaxed environment. Held in
the UK, applicants are randomly selected to attend.
•
Interchange – HRG’s Interchange programme is 
a hugely successful international exchange
programme designed to be a platform for career
enhancement and personal development. Since 
its inception in 2003 the scheme has gone from
strength to strength and last year’s Interchange
scheme yielded 23 international placements across
12 countries.
For 2007 the scheme has been extended to include
HRG Partners and now covers 30 placements in 
19 countries across five continents.
•
Thanks! – our UK employee recognition scheme,
Thanks!, is run by employees for employees and
recognises staff who have ‘gone the extra mile’
for clients, the Company or in support of their
colleagues. Almost 200 Thanks! awards were issued
last year.
‘Employee of the Month’ award winners are
recognised at a Gala Awards Dinner at which HRG’s
‘Employee of the Year’ is announced. Thanks! forms
part of HRG’s commitment to motivating and
retaining the best talent and to being a ‘Company of
Choice’ with a waiting list of people to join. Similar
schemes are run overseas and the Company is
working on the launch of an integrated global
reward and recognition scheme.
HRG Annual Report 2007 23 Overview
The key financial measures of the Group’s performance in the
financial year to 31 March 2007 compared to the prior year are
shown below. In order to aid the understanding of the results
for the continuing business, a pro-forma Consolidated Income
Statement has been included on page 29 which shows
operating profit excluding certain exceptional items.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Continuing operations £m £m % change
Revenue 311.4 297.2 4.8%
EBITDA
(1)
48.5 44.2 9.7%
EBITA
(2)
44.1 40.4 9.2%
Operating profit before
exceptional items
(3)
39.0 36.2 7.7%
Operating profit 35.4 39.3 (9.9%)
Profit for the year from
continuing operations 9.8 1.3 
1. Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (‘EBITDA’) is
calculated as operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional
items, including HRG’s share of results of associates and joint ventures, but before
net finance costs, income taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
2. Earnings before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation (‘EBITA’) is calculated as
operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, including
HRG’s share of results of associates and joint ventures, but before net finance
costs, income taxes, amortisation and impairment.
3. For more information on HRG’s exceptional items see analysis on page 26.
The line items referred to in footnotes (1) and (2) above are themselves unaudited
but are derived from audited financial information.
For notes on basis of preparation, critical accounting policies
and forward-looking statements and Non-GAAP measures,
please refer to page 31.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
24 HRG Annual Report 2007
EBITA for the twelve months
to 31 March 2007 has increased
by £3.7m from £40.4m to
£44.1m, this being a 9.2%
increase compared with the
prior year. The increase reflects
revenue growth and improved
cost management.  HRG Annual Report 2007 25
Group financial results
The following information has been extracted from the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Years ended 31 March
2007 % of 2006 % of
Continuing operations £m revenue £m revenue
Revenue 311.4 297.2 
Personnel costs (172.4) 55.4 (166.8) 56.1 
Other administrative costs (90.9) 29.2 (86.4) 29.1 
Depreciation (4.4) 1.4 (3.8) 1.3 
Amortisation (4.7) 1.5 (4.0) 1.3 
Operating profit before exceptional items
(1)
39.0 12.5 36.2 12.2 
Exceptional pension items 6.0 7.0 
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2.9) (3.9)
IPO costs (4.0) –
Rebranding costs (2.7) –
Operating profit 35.4 39.3 
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.2
Net finance costs (22.9) (37.4)
Profit before tax 12.9 2.1
Income taxes (3.1) (0.8)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9.8 1.3
Minority interests (1.3) (0.8)
Earnings from continuing operations after minority interests 8.5 0.5
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 4.9 (8.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 13.4 (7.6)
Reconciliation of operating profit before exceptional items to EBITDA:
Operating profit before exceptional items
(1)
39.0 36.2
Add back amortisation 4.7 4.0
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.2
EBITA
(2)
44.1 14.2 40.4 13.6
Add back depreciation 4.4 3.8
EBITDA
(3)
48.5 15.6 44.2 14.9
1. For more information on operating profit before exceptional items, see ‘Non-GAAP measures’on page 31 and for more information on HRG’s exceptional items see analysis on
page 26.
2. Earnings before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation (‘EBITA’) is calculated as operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, including HRG’s share of results
of associates and joint ventures, but before net finance costs, income taxes, amortisation and impairment. For more information on EBITA, see ‘Non-GAAP measures’on page 31.
3. Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (‘EBITDA’) is calculated as operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items,
including HRG’s share of results of associates and joint ventures, but before net finance costs, income taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment. For more
information on EBITDA, see ‘Non-GAAP measures’ on page 31.
The line items referred to in footnotes (2) and (3) above are themselves unaudited but are derived from audited financial information. Revenue
Revenue for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 increased by
£14.2m to £311.4m, being 4.8% higher than the prior year. Revenue
increases reflected organic growth (£8.7m) and acquisitions
(£5.5m). North America achieved a significant organic percentage
increase of 14.6% (£6.8m). Europe was beneficially impacted by the
FIF A World Cup
TM
and increases in Central revenue of £6.8m due to
increased revenue from distribution and system usage agreements.
This Central revenue included Spendvision as a subsidiary and 
a transfer of certain revenue from North America following the
introduction of a new global contract.
Personnel costs
The increase in personnel costs of £5.6m (3.4%), reflected annual
salary inflation as well as increased headcount from acquired
businesses during the year, which added £1.8m to cost. Share-
based payment schemes have been put in place as described
in note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and costs of
£0.1m were included. Had these schemes been in place at the
start of the year, the full year cost would have been £0.6m.
Other administrative costs
The increase in other administrative costs of £4.5m (5.2%)
included an increase of £2.9m due to acquired businesses.
In total, administrative costs such as IT, facilities and selling
expenses, were 29.2% of total revenue, a slight increase on
the previous year (29.1%).
Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation increased by £0.6m primarily due to increased
capital expenditure (£0.1m) from acquired businesses. Intangible
assets consist of software, both externally acquired and internally
generated, and client relationships. The amortisation on these
assets increased by £0.7m, from £4.0m to £4.7m. This increase
can be split into externally acquired software of £0.4m (total
£1.4m), internally generated software of £0.2m (total £0.7m)
and client relationships of £0.1m (total £2.6m).
Operating profit before exceptional items
Operating profit before exceptional items for the twelve months
ended 31 March 2007 increased by £2.8m from £36.2m to £39.0m,
a 7.7% increase compared with the prior year. The increase
reflected revenue growth and improved cost management in
each region. Compared with prior year, operating profit before
exceptional items included acquisitions of £1.1m and exchange
rate movements during the year of £0.6m, on translation to the
Group’s functional currency, sterling.
Exceptional pension items
Net exceptional pension items for twelve months ended
31 March 2007 were £6.0m. Of this total, £5.0m reflected the
actuarial gain on the settlement of liabilities to deferred
pensioners in the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme
(‘UK Scheme’). A further net gain of £1.0m arose on the
settlement of pension liabilities in Norway. These settlements
are unlikely to recur in future years.
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets
The Group has acquired businesses with tax losses and other
deferred tax assets. These have been recognised in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on acquisition to the extent that they were expected
to be realised based on information at the acquisition date.
The Group has subsequently been able to use tax losses and
other assets to a greater extent than anticipated on acquisition
thereby reducing the value of goodwill. In order to comply with
the requirements of IAS 12, Income Taxes, a charge was reported
in operating expenses with a matching credit included in the
tax charge.
The Group makes maximum use of all brought forward losses and
other available reliefs in mitigating cash tax payable.
IPO costs
The Company issued 200,177,777 Ordinary shares of 1p each on
12 October 2006.
The total cost of the IPO amounted to £21.4m. Of this amount,
£2.5m related to the arrangement of new borrowing facilities; this
amount was deducted from the principal amount of drawings of
the new facility and is being amortised over the five-year term of
the facility. A further £4.0m related to the listing of shares, which
existed before the IPO. This proportion of the cost was charged as
an exceptional item in the Group’s Consolidated Income
Statement. The remaining element of the cost (£14.9m) related to
the issue and listing of new shares and was taken to the Share
premium account.
Rebranding costs
During the year, the Group rebranded itself under the HRG name.
The cost of this rebranding exercise (£2.7m) was charged as an
exceptional item in the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs decreased to £22.9m from £37.4m. The level of
finance costs fell substantially following the completion of the
IPO in October 2006, both with the receipt of proceeds from the
issue of new shares and the reduction in the borrowing margin
on the remaining debt. In the previous year the disposal of the
Benefits and Consulting Services division in July 2005 gave rise
to a reduction in debt, although at a much lower level. The effect
of rising interest rates since the IPO has been to increase
borrowing costs by £0.3m on an annualised basis.
Income taxes
The tax charge for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007
amounted to £3.1m, being an effective rate of 24% of profit
before tax. The increase in tax charge over the prior year is due
primarily to the accelerated write-off of loan issue costs in a prior
year and the settlement gain on the UK pension scheme from
the payment to deferred members. A low effective rate of
taxation is expected to be sustained for the foreseeable future
while losses in the UK, Germany and North America are utilised.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
26 HRG Annual Report 2007 HRG Annual Report 2007 27
Dividend
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, a dividend
of 2.8p per share will be paid on 1 October 2007 to shareholders
on the register as at 31 August 2007. This dividend is intended to
provide a return to shareholders for the period from the IPO in
October 2006 until 31 March 2007. As required under accounting
rules this dividend is not charged in the Consolidated Income
Statement for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Discontinued operations
Profits from discontinued operations for the year to 31 March
2007 amounted to £4.9m, predominantly due to the receipt of
additional contingent disposal proceeds in respect of the sale of
the Benefits and Consulting Services division.
Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share were 6.7p based on the Group’s
reported results for the year ended 31 March 2007. These results
included the period prior to the IPO on 12 October 2006.
In particular the level of interest costs was substantially higher
before the IPO and the weighted average number of Ordinary
shares in issue substantially lower. Details of the IPO are set out
in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The pro-forma Consolidated Income Statement on page 29
shows a full year interest cost of £10.9m per annum, which, along
with the elimination of exceptional pension items, costs of the
IPO and rebranding costs, gives rise to the earnings per share
from continuing businesses of 6.5p.
Liquidity and capital resources
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions 41,009 30,603
Pension contributions following IPO (25,000) –
Other pension contributions in respect of deferred pensioners (16,031) –
Interest paid (14,988) (17,298)
Tax paid (3,036) (2,092)
Net cash flows (used in)/generated from operating activities (18,046) 11,213 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (8,782) (20,337)
Acquisition of associates, joint ventures and other investments (1,253) (1,689)
Disposals 3,165 112,863 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,530) (5,249)
Purchase of intangible assets (2,573) (2,155)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 167 56 
Interest received 1,295 1,970 
Dividend received from associates and joint ventures 202 243 
Cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities (12,309) 85,702 
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (297,897) (81,662)
New borrowings 164,051 11,202
Issue costs of new borrowings (2,549) (1,754)
Issue of shares 180,160 6
Issue of share warrants 88 –
Issue and listing costs of shares (18,682) –
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (736) (926)
Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities 24,435 (73,134)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (5,920) 23,781 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (5,920) 23,781 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 68,577 44,052 
Exchange rate effects (2,533) 744 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 60,124 68,577 
Cash and cash equivalent assets 61,336 68,879 
Overdrafts (1,212) (302)
60,124 68,577 FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
28 HRG Annual Report 2007
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows from operating activities before interest, tax and special
pension contributions were £41.0m compared with £30.6m in the
year ended 31 March 2006. This improvement was driven by the
increase in EBITDA of £4.3m, from £44.2m to £48.5m, and a
positive movement year-on-year in working capital of £5.7m, of
which £3.5m relates to continuing businesses. Pension funding in
excess of the charge to operating profit excluding special pension
contributions was an outflow of £6.5m (2006: £5.7m).
The special pension contributions consisted of £25.0m to the
UK Scheme from IPO proceeds and £16.0m provided to that
scheme to finance transfer values for deferred members, of
which £3.5m was funded from IPO proceeds.
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments made on acquisition of companies amounted to
£8.8m (2006: £20.3m). This amount included £1.5m on the
acquisition of a further 8% stake in Spendvision Holdings
Limited, £2.1m for the acquisition of Hogg Robinson s.r.o
(Czech Republic), £1.1m for the acquisition of Hogg Robinson
Polska Sp. z.o.o and £3.8m for the acquisition of Executive Travel
Associates in the USA. Cash receipts in the current year in
respect of disposals made in prior years amounted to £3.2m.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant
and equipment was £7.1m (2006: £7.4m).
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash flow from financing activities included the proceeds from
the issue of 200,177,777 Ordinary shares at 1p each at a price of
90p per share totalling £180.2m. Payments made for the costs of
the issue and listing of existing shares amounted to £18.7m.
A further £2.5m was paid to arrange new borrowing facilities.
Net repayment of borrowings was £133.8m, which included
Preference shares and accumulated premium totalling £94.5m.
This compares to a net repayment of borrowing of £70.4m in
prior year which includes a repayment of £80.0m following the
sale of the Benefits and Consulting Services division.
Reconciliation between cash and cash equivalent
assets and net debt
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalent assets 61.3 68.9 
Non-current financial liabilities
– borrowings (160.4) (287.8)
Current financial liabilities
– borrowings (3.0) (7.3)
Net borrowings (102.1) (226.2)
Current finance leases 0.1 0.1 
Non-current finance leases 0.3 0.1 
Unamortised issue costs (2.3) (2.4)
Preference shares – 89.6 
Net debt (104.0) (138.8)
Net debt and liquidity
Net debt of the Group at 31 March 2007 amounted to £104.0m.
The Group has entered into a new £220.0m multicurrency
revolving credit facility for a period of five years to September
2011. The facility is available for utilisation by way of loans, the
issue of letters of credit or guarantees. The applicable rate of
interest on loans comprises LIBOR (EURIBOR for Euro-denominated
loans), a margin and mandatory costs, if any, incurred by the
lenders. The margin is currently 1.15% but may fall depending on
achievement of financial tests, with a minimum margin of 0.55%.
The maximum utilisation of the facility, including guarantees, 
has been £206.7m. At 31 March 2007, utilisation of the facility
amounted to £184.4m. The facility is expected to be adequate 
for the needs of the Group for the period until its expiry.
Treasury policy
The Group funding and treasury policy specifically prohibits
entering into transactions of a speculative nature.
The Group’s foreign exchange transaction risk exposure is limited,
with the majority of its transactions denominated in local currency,
i.e. the currency of revenue matches the currency of expense. In
the few instances where there is no match, short-term hedges are
taken once the exposure can be accurately identified.
Intercompany cross-border loans are typically arranged so as to
include a UK borrower or lender. The loans are denominated in the
currency of the non-UK party. The UK party hedges its exposure
using short-term foreign exchange swaps to preserve the sterling
value of the loans and negate the net currency exposure.
With operations and subsidiary companies around the world, the
Group faces foreign exchange translation risk with respect to its
non-sterling earnings. To hedge partially this exposure, the
Group’s strategy is to distribute its debt among the currencies in
which its assets and earnings are denominated. In the two years
ended 31 March 2007, foreign exchange translation had a
minimal impact on HRG’s reported profits.
Where appropriate the Group uses interest rate caps to establish
maximum interest rates on core borrowings while enabling it to
benefit from short-term interest rates at a level below that
capped rate.
Retirement benefit obligations
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit 
obligations (246.7) (28.1)(274.8) (274.5) (35.7) (310.2)
Fair value of 
plan assets 195.2 19.7 214.9 160.5 25.2 185.7
Deficit (51.5) (8.4) (59.9) (114.0) (10.5) (124.5) HRG Annual Report 2007 29
The Group’s retirement benefit liability under the accounting
standard IAS 19, Employee Benefits, has fallen from £124.5m at
31 March 2006 to £59.9m at 31 March 2007.
The deficit on the UK Scheme has fallen from £114.0m to
£51.5m. During the year, Hogg Robinson (Travel) Limited, a
subsidiary of the Company, agreed a funding deed with the UK
Scheme Trustees with the intention of eliminating the deficit on
the scheme over a period of ten years to 2016. Under the terms
of this deed £25.0m of the IPO proceeds were paid to the UK
Scheme. Offers of enhanced transfer values were made to
deferred members of the UK Scheme. The Group contributed
£16.0m to the UK Scheme to finance these offers, including
£3.5m from the proceeds of the IPO. An actuarial gain of £5.0m
was made on these settlements, reflecting the extent to which
the book value of the liability under IAS 19 exceeded the transfer
values. A revised schedule of Company contributions to the UK
Scheme was agreed with the trustees and approved by the
Pensions Regulator, providing for payment of 17% of
pensionable salaries plus £6.25m per annum.
The net deficits of overseas defined benefit schemes fell from
£10.5m to £8.4m.
Going concern
The Group’s finances are sound and the Consolidated Balance Sheet
remains strong. Accordingly the Directors have formed a judgement
at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements that
there is a reasonable expectation that HRG has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pro-forma financial information
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 has been presented including results before the IPO on 12 October
2006. In particular the level of interest cost was substantially higher before the IPO. Details of the IPO are set out in note 22 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Using a pro-forma full year interest cost of £10.9m per annum following the IPO, and eliminating the exceptional pension items, the
costs of the IPO and the rebranding costs, profit and earnings per share for the year would have been reported as follows:
Actual Adjustments Pro-forma
*audited unaudited unaudited
Continuing operations £m £m £m
Operating profit before exceptional items 39.0 – 39.0 
Exceptional pension items 6.0 (6.0) –
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2.9) – (2.9)
IPO costs (4.0) 4.0 –
Rebranding costs (2.7) 2.7 –
Operating profit 35.4 0.7 36.1
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0.4 – 0.4 
Net finance costs (22.9) 12.0 (10.9)
Profit before tax 12.9 12.7 25.6 
Income taxes (3.1) (1.3) (4.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9.8 11.4 21.2 
Less: profit attributable to minority interests (1.3) – (1.3)
Earnings from continuing operations after minority interests 8.5 11.4 19.9 
Profit from discontinued operations 4.9 – 4.9 
Profit for the year 13.4 11.4 24.8 
number (m)
Actual number of shares post IPO 305.6
pence
Earnings per share:
Continuing operations 6.5
Discontinued operations 1.6
8.1
*Extracted from audited Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
30 HRG Annual Report 2007
Half year split for dividend calculation
Year ended 31 March 2007
HI H2 Full year
unaudited unaudited *audited
Continuing operations £m £m £m
Operating profit before exceptional items 12.8 26.2 39.0 
Exceptional pension items 4.5 1.5 6.0 
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (0.5) (2.4) (2.9)
IPO costs – (4.0) (4.0)
Rebranding costs – (2.7) (2.7)
Operating profit 16.8 18.6 35.4 
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0.2 0.2 0.4 
Net finance costs (16.7) (6.2) (22.9)
Profit before tax 0.3 12.6 12.9 
Income taxes (0.9) (2.2) (3.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (0.6) 10.4 9.8 
Less: profit attributable to minority interests (1.1) (0.2) (1.3)
Earnings/(loss) from continuing operations after minority interests (1.7) 10.2 8.5 
Profit from discontinued operations 4.8 0.1 4.9 
Retained profit for the year 3.1 10.3 13.4 
Add back:
IPO costs 4.0
Tax effect of IPO costs (0.1)
H2 retained profit used for dividend calculation 14.2
Proposed final dividend  (£m) 8.6
Number of shares in issue (m) 305.6
Proposed dividend per share (p) 2.8
*Extracted from audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(‘IFRS’) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union,
IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Critical accounting policies and forward-looking statements
The preparation of the IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the year. 
This Financial Review should be read in conjunction with the
audited Group Consolidated Financial Statements. The
discussions contain forward-looking statements that appear in
a number of places and include statements regarding HRG’s
intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among
other things, results of operations, revenue, financial condition,
liquidity, growth, strategies, new products and the markets in
which HRG operates. Readers are cautioned that any such
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve risks and uncertainties.
All comparative figures discussed in this Financial Review
section are extracted from the IFRS Consolidated Financial
Statements for year ended 31 March 2006 rather than the
Prospectus, which excluded all demerged operations.
Non-GAAP measures
EBITA is calculated as operating profit from continuing
operations before exceptional items, including HRG’s share of
results of associates and joint ventures but before net finance
costs, income taxes, amortisation and impairment. EBITDA is
calculated as operating profit from continuing operations before
exceptional items, including HRG’s share of results of associates
and joint ventures but before net finance costs, income taxes,
depreciation, amortisation and impairment. Operating profit
before exceptional items (a GAAP measure) relates to
continuing operations only.
The Directors believe that the presentation of EBITA, EBITDA and
operating profit before exceptional items enhances an investor’s
understanding of HRG’s financial performance. However, EBITA,
EBITDA and operating profit before exceptional items should not
be considered in isolation or viewed as substitutes for retained
profit, cash flow from operations or other measures of
performance as defined by IFRS. EBITA and EBITDA, as used in
this Annual Report, are not necessarily comparable to other
similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential
inconsistencies in the method of calculation. They are
unaudited line items derived from audited financial information.
The Directors use EBITA, EBITDA and operating profit before
exceptional items to assess HRG’s operating performance and
to make decisions about allocating resources among various
geographic segments. 
HRG Annual Report 2007 31 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, LEFT TO RIGHT STANDING: JOHN KENNERLEY, GEORGE BATTERSBY.
SEATED: DAVID RADCLIFFE, JOHN COOMBE, TONY ISAAC.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM, LEFT TO RIGHT STANDING: TOM GLEASON, CHRIS FRY, KEITH BURGESS, RETO BACHER, DAVID RADCLIFFE, BILL BRINDLE.
SEATED: MIKE PLATT, JOHN KENNERLEY, JACQUI HIGGS, KEVIN RUFFLES.
One team, working together
32 HRG Annual Report 2007 JOHN COOMBE 
CHAIRMAN, AGE 62
John Coombe is the former Chief Financial
Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc. He is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc
and of Home Retail Group plc. He is also
a member of the Supervisory Board of
Siemens AG in Germany and a Trustee of
The Royal Academy of Arts Trust. 
TONY ISAAC
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 64
Tony Isaac was Chief Executive Officer of
BOC Group PLC until 2006 and was a Non-
Executive Director of Hogg Robinson plc until
May 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of
International Power plc, where he is a member
of its Remuneration and Appointments
Committee and chairs its Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee of HRG,
and is a member of both the Remuneration
and Nominations Committees. He also acts as
the Senior Independent Director.
DAVID RADCLIFFE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, AGE 54
David Radcliffe joined the Company in 1978,
was appointed to the Board in 1989 and
became Chief Executive in 1997. Since that
time he has re-positioned the Company as a
rounded corporate services organisation.
David is a Fellow of the Institute of Sales and
Marketing Management and a Companion of
the Institute of Management. 
GEORGE BATTERSBY
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 60
George Battersby is a main Board Director of
Cable and Wireless plc responsible for Human
Resources. In addition he is the Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee of HRG and is 
a member of both the Audit and Nominations
Committees.
JOHN KENNERLEY 
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR, AGE 58
John Kennerley has an MBA from Cranfield
and is an Associate Member of the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants.
Before joining Hogg Robinson Group in April
2000, John was Group Finance Director of
Powerscreen International plc and previously
APV plc. He has also held senior finance
positions with Tomkins plc, Diageo plc
and Merck Inc. 
HRG Annual Report 2007 33
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
RETO BACHER
REGIONAL PRESIDENT EUROPE, AGE 55
Reto Bacher has almost 40 years’ experience of
the corporate travel industry. He joined Hogg
Robinson Group in 2004 when the Company
acquired the corporate travel interests of Kuoni
Holdings. Since then Reto has been instrumental
in the smooth integration and development of
HRG’s operations in Europe. 
CHRIS FRY
COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR, AGE 61
Chris Fry joined Hogg Robinson Group in 1975.
He was appointed to the Board of Hogg
Robinson plc in February 1994 and took up his
current position in 2006 with overall
responsibility for sales and corporate client
activity. He is particularly skilled at working with
large national and international clients,
especially when undertaking strategic travel
management reviews.
MIKE PLATT
GROUP INDUSTRY AFFAIRS DIRECTOR, AGE 59
Mike Platt has over 40 years’industry experience
since joining BOAC (British Overseas Airways
Corporation) in 1966. In 1989 Mike joined Hogg
Robinson (Travel) Ltd as Director of Sales and also
held the positions of Director of Commercial
Affairs and International Commercial Director
before being appointed Managing Director of
HRG UK. He was appointed Group Industry
Affairs Director in 2006. 
BILL BRINDLE
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND
DISTRIBUTION DIRECTOR, AGE 45
Bill Brindle joined HRG in 1998 and now has
responsibility for all HRG’s information
technology, distribution and product
development needs. Since joining HRG, Bill has
been instrumental in driving change systems
within the business focusing on the design,
development, delivery and support of innovative
business systems and architecture. He is also
Chairman of Spendvision Holdings Ltd.
TOM GLEASON
REGIONAL PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA, AGE 57
Tom has almost 35 years’ corporate travel
experience, gained mainly in senior positions
within American Airlines. He joined Hogg
Robinson Group in 2005 and was appointed
Regional President in 2006. Tom has a degree
in Education and is a Board Member of British
American Business Inc.
KEVIN RUFFLES
REGIONAL PRESIDENT ASIA PACIFIC, AGE 54
Since joining the Company in 1972, Kevin
Ruffles has held a number of operational roles,
culminating in his appointment to the Board
of Hogg Robinson plc in 1997. He was
appointed Regional President in 2006. His
leadership roles have included: UK e-ticket
launch with British Airways; ISO quality
accreditation and implementation throughout
the UK; and the integration of the business
travel interests of Kuoni Holdings.
KEITH BURGESS
GENERAL COUNSEL AND
CENTRAL SERVICES DIRECTOR, AGE 52
A qualified Barrister, Keith Burgess has been a
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
since 1991. He joined the Company in 2000
and since then he has been closely involved in
HRG’s international expansion, acquisition and
divestment programme.
JACQUI HIGGS
GROUP MARKETING DIRECTOR, AGE 59
During her career with the Company, Jacqui
Higgs has held a number of increasingly senior
positions. She was appointed to her current role
in 2006 and has responsibility for HRG’s global
marketing and communications activity.
Jacqui led the international team responsible
for the development and global implementation
of the HRG brand.
ROGER WESTWOOD (NOT PICTURED)
OVERSEAS INVESTMENT DIRECTOR, AGE 61
Roger Westwood joined Hogg Robinson in
1975 and was appointed to the Board of Hogg
Robinson plc in 1987. His involvement in
corporate travel began in 1998 when he was
instrumental in the acquisition of Rider Travel
in Canada (which now trades as HRG North
America) and since then has been heavily
involved in HRG’s acquisition programme. 
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 34 HRG Annual Report 2007
Directors
J D Coombe
Chairman 
(also, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and
member of the Remuneration Committee)
D J C Radcliffe
Chief Executive
J F W Kennerley 
Group Finance Director
A E Isaac
Non-Executive Director
(also, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the
Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and
Remuneration Committees)
G W Battersby
Non-Executive Director
(also, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees)
Company Secretary
K J Burgess
Registered office
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire RG21 3BT
Registered number: 3946303
Telephone: 01256 312 600
Fax: 01256 346 999
Website: www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Legal advisers to the Company 
Macfarlanes
10 Norwich Street
London EC4A 1BD 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
COMPANY INFORMATION Our responsibilities...
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
HRG Annual Report 2007 35 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
36 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report together
with the financial statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc 
(‘the Company’) and its subsidiary undertakings (‘the Group’ or
‘HRG’) for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Principal activities
In the year under review, the principal activities of HRG, of which
the Company is the holding company, have been that of an
international business support services group providing value-
added services in the global corporate travel market. Within this
market HRG targets the international and national managed sector,
where clients require a range of globally-integrated and tailored
travel and expense management services. Its growth strategy
focuses on achieving increased customer penetration, entry into
new markets, increasing its range of services and developing new
higher margin services for large clients which are attracted to HRG’s
offering of managed corporate travel programmes.
Enhanced business review and future developments
The Directors are required to provide a fair review of the
development and performance of the business of the Group during
the year, the position of the Group as at 31 March 2007, expected
future developments and a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Group. The Directors have included the
information which fulfils this requirement in this Directors’Report
and within the following sections of this Annual Report:
Chairman’s Statement page 4
Chief Executive’s Review page 6
Financial Review page 24
Corporate Governance page 39
Remuneration Report page 42
Risk
Forward-looking information
Discussions regarding financial information contained in the 2007
Annual Report and Financial Statements may contain forward-
looking statements with respect to certain of the plans, current
goals and expectations relating to the future financial condition,
business performance and results of HRG. By their nature, all
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because
they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond
the control of HRG, some of which are set out below. Readers are
cautioned that, as a result, HRG’s actual future financial condition,
business performance and results may differ materially from the
plans, goals and expectations expressed or implied in such
forward-looking statements.
Business risks
HRG operates in a highly competitive market and HRG may not
react adequately to changes in the corporate travel market;
general economic downturns, terrorism, the fear of terrorism,
travel industry strikes, fuel price escalation, national disasters,
health pandemics or similar events could reduce revenues. 
Revenues may also be affected materially if HRG is unable to
secure new or renew existing contracts. Client contracts are
generally non-exclusive and many generate fees on a per-
transaction and/or fixed fee basis. 
HRG is substantially dependent on GDS and other suppliers for
certain inventory and revenue; HRG’s success depends on the
efficiency of its systems, third party systems and the ability to
integrate its systems with clients, suppliers and third parties.
HRG’s strategy includes undertaking acquisitions and this
involves integration risks. HRG is also reliant on its key executives. 
Risks relating to HRG’s markets
In most markets, HRG requires licences to operate its businesses
which could be lost; regulatory and legal changes may also
impose burdens on HRG which have not yet been foreseen.
The loss of a partner from HRG’s global network could also lead
to lack of market coverage.
Risks relating to HRG’s defined benefit pension schemes
HRG operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes
the largest of which relates to UK employees. Although the IPO
enabled the Company to substantially reduce the deficit in the
UK defined benefit scheme, in common with many companies
which operate such schemes, each of HRG’s defined benefit
schemes remains in deficit. Further details relating to HRG’s
pension obligations are set out in note 21 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. 
Risks relating to the Ordinary shares of HRG
Prior to the recent IPO, no market had existed for the Ordinary
shares of the Company and an active trading market may not
fully develop until such time as the market fully understands the
nature of HRG’s business model; the market price of the Ordinary
shares may therefore fluctuate significantly. Exchange rate
fluctuations may affect an investor whose principal currency is
not Pounds Sterling; certain non-UK shareholders may also not
be able to exercise pre-emption rights in all circumstances.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company who held office
throughout the year, other than as shown below, were as follows:
J D Coombe* Chairman
D J C Radcliffe Chief Executive
J F W Kennerley Group Finance Director
G W Battersby* (appointed 11 September 2006)
A E Isaac*# (appointed 11 September 2006)
* Non-Executive Directors
# Senior Independent Director
George Battersby, Tony Isaac and David Radcliffe will retire at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election.
The following also held office as Directors of the Company from
the beginning of the year until 11 September 2006 on which
date they all resigned as Directors of the Company in preparation
for the IPO:
R K Bacher C P Fry
Dr N C Bain M C Garland
W F Brindle K A Ruffles HRG Annual Report 2007 37
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the
Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 42
to 46. Other than contracts for service and documents relating
to the founding of the Company and in connection with the
management buy-out of the Company in 2000, there were no
significant contracts between the Directors and any member
company of the Group during or at the end of the year.
Results and dividends
In a year of exceptional challenges and significant events for the
Company, the Directors are pleased to report an increase in both
Revenues from continuing operations and EBITA which have
increased by £14.2m and £3.7m respectively (EBITA is defined in
the section on ‘Non-GAAP measures’ on page 31).
As a result of this pleasing performance, the Directors are
recommending the payment of a final dividend for the year
ended 31 March 2007 of 2.8p per Ordinary share on 1 October
2007 to shareholders on the register on 31 August 2007.
Full details of the financial performance of the Company during
the year are contained in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 31.
In considering the Financial Review, shareholders are reminded
that in the previous financial year the Company was a private
company with significantly different capital and debt structures.
Accordingly, comparative numbers are not always meaningful
and, for this reason, have not always been given. Shareholders’
attention is however drawn to the pro-forma financial
information set out on page 29.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company currently has no controlling shareholder. As at
28 June 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of the Annual Report, the Company had been
notified of the following interests by shareholders who held
more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shares %
BlackRock Inc 34,396,973 11.25
F&C Asset Management Plc 30,736,118 10.07
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 26,255,356 8.59
Henderson Global Investors Limited 21,745,786 7.11
Permira Europe II Nominees Limited 21,284,301 6.96
Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,930,665 5.21
Legal & General Group Plc 15,315,373 5.01
Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 15,018,162 4.91
Artemis Investment Management Limited 12,659,000 4.14
UBS AG 9,225,070 3.02
Share capital
The Company’s authorised, issued and fully paid share capital,
and the changes therein prior to the IPO were set out on page
144 of the Prospectus issued in connection with the IPO. The
details of that old share structure are set out in note 22 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Upon completion of the IPO on 12 October 2006, the Company’s
authorised, issued and fully paid share capital consisted entirely of
Ordinary shares (‘Ordinary shares’) of 1p each and was as set out in
the table below. There have been no changes since that date. There
are no treasury shares to which voting rights are attached.
Authorised
Number Amount Nominal Value
513,808,171 £5,138,081.71 £0.01 each
Issued and fully paid
Number Amount
305,634,011 £3,056,340.11
Share incentive schemes
Details of the share-based incentive schemes operated by the
Company are included in the Remuneration Report on pages
42 to 46 and in note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions made by the Group during the year are detailed 
in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Since the
end of the financial year, the Company has also been pleased 
to announce the acquisition of Weinberg Travel BVBA, an
acquisition which is in line with the Group’s stated strategy.
Post balance sheet events
Post balance sheet events are detailed in note 32 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pensions
The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19,‘Employee Benefits’ .
On this basis, the deficit in the Group’s pensions schemes at 31 March
2007 was £59.9m (2006: £124.5m). As with most pension schemes,
assets are invested for the long term to meet long term liabilities but
the deficit referred to above reflected market conditions as at
31 March 2007.
£15.7m of the reduction in the IAS 19 pension liability reflects the
return on scheme assets in the year. The balance of the reduction is
principally because of the additional contributions made to the
Scheme during the year as outlined in the Prospectus, including
£25m which was contributed to the Scheme as a result of the
successful completion of the IPO. Further details of pension matters
are set out in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employees
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group
and of any factors affecting their employment. Annual Reports
are made available to all staff and there is a comprehensive
internal communications programme through which
management communicate with employees, and employees
are encouraged to assist in the Group’s development.
Fair and full consideration is given to applications for
employment from disabled persons having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Efforts are made to continue
the employment of those who become disabled. Training, career
development and promotion opportunities are, as far as
practicable, identical for all employees. The Group consistently DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
CONTINUED
38 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
seeks to recruit, develop and employ suitably qualified, capable
and experienced people in an environment of equal opportunity.
The Group aims to maintain a high standard of safe and healthy
working conditions comparable with the best practices in the
particular industry in which it operates.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises its responsibility to conduct the business
of the Company in a manner which engages positively so as to
ensure that it reflects the social standards of all HRG’s stakeholders.
The following is a summary of HRG’s approach to each of the
areas on which it has adopted detailed policies reflecting its
corporate social responsibility:
How we do business
We recognise that our shareholders have invested in our
business and the success of our business will directly influence
the value of their investment. We work cooperatively with our
suppliers and business partners, choose those who share our
values and strive for mutual trust and benefit. We recognise the
importance of managing environmental, social and governance
risks through our business practices and work hard to maintain
our reputation for honesty, integrity and respect for people.
How we treat our employees
We respect our employees’individuality and diversity, require them to
live up to our values and provide the encouragement and opportunity
to develop their careers. We recruit and promote on suitability and
merit and recognise the vital role our people play in providing
excellent client service. We are committed to attracting, motivating
and retaining the best talent, and will maintain our reputation as a
company of choice, with a list of people waiting to join.
How we treat our clients
We constantly look to offer our clients superior products and
services that provide good value. We aim to give them the
highest quality service and strive to offer them the best
economic and environmental choices.
How we behave in our communities
We strive to behave as responsible corporate citizens globally
and good, supportive neighbours in our local communities.
How we deal with the environment
The Group’s trading activities have only a marginal direct impact
on the environment and contribute minimally to pollution. The
Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner that
shows responsibility towards the environment and in ensuring
high standards of health and safety for its employees. The Group
complies with statutory and mandatory requirements and where
practicable aims to exceed regulations applicable to its areas of
business. Working practices are routinely monitored as improved
techniques and technologies become available.
Detailed copies of each of these policies and the way in which
the Company seeks to implement them are available on the
Company’s website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Donations
The Group has made charitable donations during the year
totalling £38,000 (2006: £37,000). Of the total charitable donations
made in the year £24,500 (2006: £21,000) was made by the Group
and the remainder was paid on behalf of employees.
No political donations were made during the year (2006: £nil).
Financial instruments
A statement of the Group’s policies in relation to financial instruments
is set out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Policy for paying suppliers
The Group’s current policy concerning the payment of its trade
creditors and other suppliers is to:
(a) settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when
agreeing the terms of each transaction;
(b) ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
(c) pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal
obligations.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy.
Overseas subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies by
applying local best practice. The figure for trade creditors for the
Group at the end of the financial year represents 9 days
purchases (2006: 9 days). The Company has no trade creditors.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director of the Company confirms that; (a) so far as he/she is
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and (b) that he/she has taken all
the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director in order to
make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 September 2007. The
resolutions to be proposed at the AGM together with explanatory
notes are contained within the Notice of Meeting which has been
despatched to shareholders with this Annual Report. 
By order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
28 June 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
HRG Annual Report 2007 39
Statement of compliance
The financial year under review includes the period prior to
12 October 2006, being the date on which the Company
successfully completed its Listing on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange (‘the IPO’). An IPO has been core to
HRG’s long-term growth strategy for some time and, mindful of
this, although the Company did not need to comply in all
respects with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
(‘the Code’) prior to the IPO, the Board has nevertheless at all
times been guided by the spirit of the Code, seeking to achieve
the highest standards of business integrity, ethics, and
professionalism across all our activities.
This report does not seek to report comprehensively on
Corporate Governance matters for the period prior to the IPO.
Except as stated below, HRG has complied with the Code since
the IPO and is committed to doing so in the future. This report
sets out the manner in which the main and supporting
principles of Section 1 of the Code have been applied since the
IPO. Certain aspects of the Company’s compliance involve
actions which happen at least once a year, some of which have
not taken place since the IPO. Where this is so, the relevant
action is identified.
Board of Directors
As part of the IPO process, the Board was reconstituted and
new Directors were appointed. Currently, the Board has five
members: the Chairman, two further Non-Executive Directors
and two Executive Directors. The effectiveness of the Board
is underpinned by a balance between Executive and Non-
Executive Directors and the Board believes that this brings
together the appropriate skills and experience necessary to
provide effective leadership and control of the Company.
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 33.
Board responsibilities, balance and effectiveness
Collectively, the Board is responsible to shareholders for setting
the direction of the business and monitoring the Group’s
performance going forward. It is also responsible for ensuring
that an effective internal control environment exists, and that the
risks associated with the business are appropriately managed.
The Board meets its commitment to the strategic direction and
control of the Group by meeting regularly throughout the year.
It has a schedule of regular meetings and also meets on an
unscheduled basis as the need arises. It defines and sets the
strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring that sufficient financial
and human resources are in place to meet those objectives.
The executive element of the Board is balanced by independent
Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual or group of
individuals can dominate the Board’s decision making. The
Group’s Non-Executive Directors are regarded as independent
and free from any business or other relationship that could
materially interfere with their judgement.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is maintained.
The conduct of business
The Company has established business values and standards for
the Group, which provide a framework for the Group to balance
the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
These policies are commented on in more detail in the Directors’
Report on pages 36 to 38 and are also available on the Company’s
website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to
it for decision including the Group’s business strategy, annual
budget, annual and interim financial results, dividends, and major
corporate activities, such as the making of investments, acquisitions
and disposals. It also considers regular reports from the Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director and, periodically, operating
reports from individual divisions or functions. Complete, timely and
relevant information is provided to the Board to ensure that
informed judgements are made in pursuit of the Group’s objectives.
The Board also reviews the performance of management in
meeting business objectives, plans the succession of key
executives, and determines appropriate remuneration levels
through the Remuneration Committee, a committee of the
Board. The operational management of the Group is delegated
to the Chief Executive who manages this through an Executive
Management Team which meets according to a regular schedule
and also on an ad hoc basis as the need arises. The Composition
of the Executive Management Team is set out on page 33.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
The Non-Executive Directors provide an independent and
constructive challenge to the business development plans that
are proposed by executive management. Through their
membership of the Board committees they also have
responsibility for:
– overseeing that the systems of internal control and risk
management are appropriate and effective;
– managing the relationship with the external auditors;
– evaluating the performance of the management teams in
meeting targets and objectives;
– setting the remuneration of Executive Directors; and
– planning senior management succession.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Tony Isaac.
In this capacity, he is an additional contact point for shareholders
should they feel that their concerns are not being addressed
through normal channels.
Board development and training
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed
Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme,
and training is provided for Directors on their roles and legal
obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant with their
responsibilities as Directors. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
40 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
Directors are also kept informed of changes to the regulatory
regime, and new institutional investor guidelines. All of the
Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and also to external independent advice
should they so wish.
Performance of the Board
During the period commencing 1 April 2006 through to the
completion of the IPO on 12 October 2006, Permira exercised
control over the majority of the Company’s voting shares and also
had the right to remove and replace any member of the Board.
As a consequence, the Company did not have a formal process in
place prior to the IPO for evaluating the performance of the
Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
The current Board was only constituted with effect from the IPO
but has initiated a formal evaluation policy, both for the Board
and its Committees, which will commence in October 2007
(i.e. at the anniversary of the IPO). The Board considered
implementing such a process earlier, but wished to see those
systems and structures which had been put in place at the time
of the IPO in action for a time prior to formally reviewing them
and the overall performance of the Board. As part of this process,
the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, will meet without the Chairman present
to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking
into account the views of the Executive Directors. The Chairman
will also meet the other Non-Executive Directors at least once
during each year, without the Executive Directors being present,
in order to review the operation of the Board. In addition, the
Chairman will have an annual meeting with each Non-Executive
Director to review their contribution to the Board. Dates for all
these activities have been identified by the relevant individuals.
Since the IPO, and prior to the end of the financial year ended
31 March 2007, the Board met on four occasions; all Directors
attended each of these meetings.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s
Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for
re-election on a rotational basis every three years and newly
appointed Directors are subject to election by the shareholders
at the first AGM after their appointment.
Board Committees
The Company has established an Audit Committee, a
Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
No person other than a Committee member is entitled to attend
the meetings of these Committees, except at the invitation 
of the Committee. The terms of reference of these Committees
are available on the Company’s website at
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com.
Audit Committee
With effect from the IPO, the Audit Committee comprises two
Independent Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman),
chaired by Tony Isaac, who has significant and recent relevant
financial experience. In addition to the members of the
Committee, regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings
at the invitation of the Committee have included the Chairman,
the CEO, the Group Finance Director, representatives of the
external auditors, the head of internal audit, the head of financial
reporting and the Company Secretary.
Since the IPO, the Audit Committee met twice during the year to
31 March 2007 and all members attended both of the meetings. 
The Audit Committee will meet not less than three times a year
and at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee
requires. The Committee’s original written terms of reference were
approved by the Board at the time of the IPO but they have since
been reviewed and revised with effect from 12 March 2007.
At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of
financial reporting and related matters including the half year
results prior to their submission to the Board. The Committee
focused in particular on critical accounting policies and practices
adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement
that may materially impact reported results. It also monitored 
the internal controls that are operated by management to
ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders. 
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s
external auditors. It has advised the Board on the appointment,
independence, and objectivity of the external auditors and on
their remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory
audit with the external auditors. The Audit Committee carries out
an independent assessment of the suitability and performance
of the external auditors in making its recommendation to the
Board for their reappointment.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual
internal audit plan for the Group, to ensure that the internal
audit function is adequately sponsored and resourced. Its terms
of reference also provide for it to review the whistle-blowing
arrangements for staff.
At the meeting to review the 2007 Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the Committee considered the level of non-audit
services being provided by the Group’s external auditors in
order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence
of the external auditors is safeguarded. The lead audit partner
is rotated on a five-year basis.
Remuneration Committee
With effect from the IPO, the Committee comprises the
Non-Executive Chairman, John Coombe and the two
Non-Executive Directors, Tony Isaac and George Battersby.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is George
Battersby. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for
monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors of
the Company and other senior executives of the Group
against targets, and for making recommendations to the
Board on remuneration. During the year, the Remuneration
Committee has taken advice on remuneration from the HRG Annual Report 2007 41
Monks Partnership (in relation to the benchmarking of executive
salaries) and also from Kepler Associates (in relation to overall
remuneration strategy, and also in relation to the design and
structure of share-based incentive schemes). Both Kepler
Associates and the Monks Partnership are independent from the
Company. Since the IPO, the Committee met twice during the
year to 31 March 2007 and all members were in attendance.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are
given in the Remuneration report on page 42.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for matters of Board
structure, management succession and the identification and
appointment of Directors. The Committee comprises the
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee is John Coombe. The Committee
did not meet during the year under review, although it has met
since the end of its financial year to consider the appointment
of a suitable successor to the current Group Finance Director.
The Committee will also meet when appropriate and, in any
event, not less than twice a year.
Communication with shareholders
The Board attaches importance to the effectiveness of its
communications with shareholders. Since the IPO, the Board
has initiated dialogue with institutional shareholders and the
financial community. This has included presentations at the time
of the IPO, the preliminary and interim results, and in future will
also include regular meetings with major shareholders and
industry analysts. All shareholders and potential shareholders
can gain access to the Annual Report and other significant
information about HRG on the Company’s website at
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM
which is to be held on 4 September 2007, where they will have
the opportunity to receive comprehensive information on the
Group’s business activities and to question senior management
about business issues and prospects. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration, and Nominations Committees will be available 
to answer any questions on the work of the Committees. All
shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to
the AGM. All proxy votes will be counted and the level of proxy
votes lodged for each resolution will be reported at the AGM
and on the Company’s website.
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in
safeguarding the shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. Within the Group, managers are
responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant
risks applicable to their areas of business together with the
design and operation of appropriate internal controls to ensure
effective mitigation. These risks, identified in the context of
business objectives, are assessed on a continual basis and may
be associated with a variety of internal and external events,
including control breakdowns, competition, disruption,
regulatory requirements and natural and other shocks.
Risk management software is used at all major sites, and for key
central functions, which provides management with access to all
identified risks at a business, corporate and Group level, together
with details of how the risks are being dealt with. From this, the
Executive Management Team reviews on a regular basis the risk
management and control process and considers:
– the authority, resources, and coordination of those involved in
the identification, assessment and management of significant
risks faced by the Group;
– the response to the significant risks which have been
identified by management and others; and
– the maintenance of a control environment directed towards
the proper management of risk.
A process of self-certification has also been established within
the Group which provides a documented and auditable trail of
accountability for the operation of the system of internal control.
This is complemented by the activities of the internal audit
function which also provides a degree of assurance as to the
operation and validity of the system of internal control. Planned
corrective actions are independently monitored for their timely
completion.
The internal audit function works to a programme which is
structured to address the risks identified by the Group and is
integrated across all business and functional dimensions in order
to reduce overlap or gaps in coverage. These risks are identified
dynamically with the Board and Executive Management Team
being involved in the process.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control that has been in operation during the year ended
31 March 2007. In particular, it has reviewed and updated the
process for the identification and evaluation of significant risks
affecting the business and the manner in which they are managed.
During the process, the Board identified the need to strengthen
controls in a small number of less significant locations and this is
being attended to. REMUNERATION REPORT
42 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
Committee membership during the year
With effect from the IPO on 12 October 2006, the Remuneration
Committee was reconstituted and now comprises the Non-
Executive Directors, George Battersby and Tony Isaac, together
with the Chairman, John Coombe. The Committee is chaired by
George Battersby. The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors of the
Company against targets, and for making recommendations to
the Board on remuneration policy generally. Prior to the IPO, the
Remuneration Committee comprised Neville Bain, John Coombe
and Mike Garland (‘the Previous Remuneration Committee’) all of
whom were Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive of the Company is invited to attend meetings
of the Committee, other than when his own remuneration is
being discussed.
The Committee appointed and received advice from Kepler
Associates on remuneration policy and the appropriate structure
of elements of the remuneration framework. Kepler Associates
provides no other services to the Group nor has any connection
with the Group. Additional assistance was received from the
Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Remuneration policy
When deciding appropriate levels of salary and other forms of
remuneration during the year, the Remuneration Committee
took into account:
– the annual and continuing performance of each Director
within his sphere of operation;
– the requirement to ensure that improving shareholders’
returns are achieved;
– the Company’s need to provide sufficiently attractive
remuneration packages for the recruitment and retention of
Executives able to provide direction and motivation; and
– appropriate market rates. In judging appropriate market
salaries, the previous Remuneration Committee had
considered an external benchmarking survey undertaken for
them by the Monks Partnership. The current Remuneration
Committee is intending to conduct a further review of total
remuneration policy during the year by reference to market
rates and the use of external benchmarking. 
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy
on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual Directors. Around 40% of each Executive
Director’s remuneration is variable and linked to performance.
Fixed pay includes salary and pension; the variable element of
pay comprises annual bonus and long term incentives. No
Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Elements of remuneration
Basic salaries
Individual basic salaries are reviewed annually by the
Remuneration Committee which takes into account related
performance and any changes in responsibility.
Non-cash benefits (other than pensions)
The Company provides a comprehensive package of
employment benefits for Executive Directors. Principal elements
include a fully expensed company car, life insurance, private
health insurance, personal accident insurance and permanent
disability insurance, none of which are pensionable. 
Annual Bonus Plan
In addition to salary, all Executive Directors are eligible for an annual
performance-related bonus, which is non-pensionable. The Board
believes it is important that the Executive Directors have a substantial
part of their annual remuneration based on performance. For the
year ending 31 March 2008, the Remuneration Committee has
determined that a total potential bonus of 80% of base salary would
be payable to Executive Directors and other Key Management for
achievement against financial targets (Cash and EBITA) and personal
targets. Achievement of on-target performance would result in a
total bonus payment equal to 40% of base salary and would reach
a maximum of 80% of base salary for the outperformance of such
targets by levels which the Committee regards as appropriate and
stretching. Such bonuses will be satisfied partially as to cash and
partially as to restricted shares which would vest one year after the
bonus payment was due but which would otherwise not be subject
to any further performance conditions. Bonuses relating to the
period when the Company was in private ownership were paid in
the year to certain employees, including the Executive Directors,
whose amounts are set out in Table 1 of this report.
The total remuneration received or receivable by the Directors
holding office during the year ended 31 March 2007 is set out
in Table 1 in this report.
Pensions
Messrs Radcliffe, Kennerley, Brindle, Fry and Ruffles are all
members of the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme to which
they contribute 6% of contributions salary, being basic salary less
the Lower Earnings Limit. The scheme provides an accrual rate of
2% of contributions salary for each year of service. Certain of the
long serving individuals have a five-year service credit. Pensions in
respect of service up to August 1999 are increased in payment,
and in deferment after leaving service, at LPI per annum
compound, capped at 5%; pensions in respect of service after this
date are increased in payment deferment each year in line with
inflation up to LPI, capped at 5%. Reto Bacher is a member of the
Swiss defined benefit pension scheme.
On death, a spouse’s pension of one half of the member’s
pension is payable.
Details of Directors’ pension benefits are set out in Table 2 in
this report.
Directors’ service agreements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have continuing service contracts with
the Company which
a) In the case of David Radcliffe, is subject to termination by
giving either party not less than twelve months’ written 
notice except that, if the Company terminates Mr Radcliffe’s
employment within twelve months of a change of control, 
the period of notice that the Company is required to give will
be the longer of (i) twelve months and (ii) twenty four months
less the period of time that has elapsed between the date of
the IPO and the change of control. HRG Annual Report 2007 43
b) In the case of John Kennerley, is subject to termination by the
Company giving him not less than twelve months’ written
notice or John Kennerley giving the Company six months’
written notice except that, if the Company terminates 
Mr Kennerley’s employment within six months of a change of
control, the period of notice that the Company is required to
give will be the longer of (i) twelve months and (ii) 18 months
less the period of time that has elapsed between the date of the
IPO and the change of control. Mr Kennerley will be stepping
down as Finance Director during the coming year and an
announcement concerning the timing of this will be made to
the market once a suitable successor has been identified. 
In anticipation of the IPO, the Company initiated a policy that the
duration of Executive Directors’ contracts should be no longer than
12 months. The varying notice periods referred to in the preceding
paragraphs, which would only apply in the event of a change of
control, were adopted as transitional arrangements because
David Radcliffe and John Kennerley previously had contracts
dated 22 June 2000 for two years and eighteen months duration,
respectively. These terms were amended at the time of the IPO
so that, other than in the limited circumstances stated above,
their contracts would be of 12 months duration.
Non-Executive Directors
a) John Coombe was appointed as Chairman of the Company
with effect from 1 April 2006 and has entered into a letter of
appointment with the Company dated 7 June 2006. He is
entitled to an annual fee of £125,000 and the reimbursement of
out of pocket expenses. John Coombe’s appointment is for an
initial term of three years, subject to earlier termination by
either party. If the Company elects to terminate John Coombe’s
appointment before the expiry of the initial term, he will be
entitled to one month’s notice and fees during that period.
b) Tony Isaac has entered into a letter of appointment with the
Company dated 1 September 2006 under which he was
appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11
September 2006. He is entitled to an annual fee of £30,000, a fee
of £5,000 per annum for his role as Chairman of the Company’s
Audit Committee, a fee of £5,000 per annum for his role as the
Senior Independent Director and the reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses. Tony Isaac’s appointment is for an initial term
of three years, subject to earlier termination by either party.
c) George Battersby has entered into a letter of appointment
with the Company dated 1 September 2006 under which he
was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11
September 2006. He is entitled to an annual fee of £30,000, a fee
of £5,000 per annum for his role as Chairman of the Company’s
Remuneration Committee and the reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses. George Battersby’s appointment is for an initial
term of three years, subject to earlier termination by either party.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have been granted options
under any of the Company’s Share Incentive Schemes.
Share Incentive Schemes
The Company adopted three share-based incentive schemes
at the time of the IPO on 12 October 2006, namely a
Performance Share Plan, a Company Share Option Plan and a
Sharesave Scheme (‘the Sharesave Scheme’).
The following grants were made under these Schemes
during the year.
The Performance Share Plan (PSP)
On 13 December 2006, options were granted to employees
eligible under the PSP to subscribe for 1,731,215 Ordinary shares
vesting on 13 December 2009. No options had lapsed or
become exercisable as at 31 March 2007. The options are
exercisable without payment of an exercise price, but are subject
to the achievement of certain performance criteria which the
Remuneration Committee regards as appropriate and stretching.
Details of the performance targets are detailed below.
The Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
On 13 December 2006, options were granted to employees
eligible under the CSOP to subscribe for 3,784,537 Ordinary
shares vesting on 13 December 2009. No options had lapsed or
become exercisable as at 31 March 2007. The options are
exercisable at an exercise price of 96p, but are subject to the
achievement of certain performance criteria which the
Remuneration Committee regards as appropriate and stretching.
Details of the performance targets are detailed below.
Share options are not offered at a discount, except as permitted
by relevant Listing Rules.
Performance Criteria in respect of the PSP and CSOP schemes
In respect of both the PSP and CSOP schemes, a proportion of each
award is based on the satisfaction of performance conditions based
on total shareholder return (‘TSR’), with the balance being based
on a performance condition based on an increase in earnings per
share (‘EPS’). The percentage split between TSR awards and EPS
awards is dependent on the seniority of a participant. In the case
of Key Management members, i.e. a Director of Hogg Robinson
Group plc and members of the Executive Management Team,
the performance criteria are split equally between the TSR and the
EPS conditions. In the case of any other eligible employee, the
performance criteria are split: 75% in respect of the EPS condition;
25% in respect of the TSR condition. 
Awards subject to the TSR targets will vest in full in the event the
TSR of the Company over the performance period exceeds the
80th percentile of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support
Services index. In the event of the Company’s TSR performance
equalling the median of the comparator companies, 25% of the
TSR based award will vest, with vesting calculated on a straight-
line basis between these two points.
Awards subject to the EPS target will vest in full in the event the
Company’s EPS increases by 15% per annum above the percentage
change in the RPI over the performance period. In the event the
Company’s EPS increases by 5% per annum above the percentage
change in the RPI, 25% of the EPS based award will vest, with
vesting calculated on a straight-line basis between these two points.
In the event of a change of control, vesting of PSP and CSOP
awards would depend on the extent to which the performance
conditions are satisfied up to the date of the event. Vested CSOP
awards would then be exercisable for a period of six months.
Furthermore, the vesting of PSP awards would, unless the REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
44 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
Committee determines otherwise, be reduced to reflect the
proportion of the vesting period which has lapsed.
The Committee believes that the use of TSR is justified because it
aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of
shareholders by requiring superior TSR performance relative to
comparators for awards to vest.
EPS growth is considered by the Committee to be an
appropriate measure of HRG’s performance for the purposes of
the CSOP and PSP as it reflects underlying financial performance
whilst complementing the share price growth captured by TSR.
In establishing the Company’s Share Incentive Schemes, the
Company received advice from Kepler Associates as to the
appropriate structure of the schemes and the size of grants 
to be made to participants. The Company’s policy as to the
granting of awards under the PSP and the CSOP was set out in the
Prospectus. Prior to making future grants, the Remuneration
Committee has asked for further advice from Kepler Associates on
such matters to confirm that they remain appropriate to the
Company’s circumstances and the remuneration objectives as
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Sharesave Scheme
On 16 February 2007, options were granted to employees who
had applied to subscribe for a total of 4,812,285 shares under the
Sharesave Scheme at an option price of 82p being a discount of
20% to the Company’s share price on 19 January 2007. In the
case of options granted to US employees, for US tax purposes,
the option price was 87p being a discount of 15% to the
Company’s share price on 19 January 2007. No options had
lapsed or become exercisable as at 31 March 2007. The relevant
savings contracts all commenced on 1 April 2007.
The Directors’ interests in the PSP Plan, the CSOP Plan and the
Sharesave Scheme are set out in Table 3. 
The following graph illustrates the TSR performance (share price
growth plus dividends) of the Company against the FTSE 350
Support Services index since IPO. 
Chart 1: Value of £100 invested in HRG shares at flotation
Note to Chart 1:
TSR is calculated in £, based on spot share prices and includes dividends
reinvested on their ex-dividend date. HRG opening share price on
12 October 2006 is 97.5p; closing share price on 31 March 2007 is 96p.
AUDITABLE PART
Companies Act disclosure requirements
The disclosure required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 (‘the auditable part’) is contained within the following table:
Table 1: Directors’ emoluments Salaries and Year to Year to
pension Value of Expense Annual IPO 31 March 2007 31 March 2006
supplement benefits allowances bonus
(iv)
bonus
(v)
Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
J D Coombe (Chairman) 125 – – – – 125 –
D J C Radcliffe 385 30 – – 50 465 487
J F W Kennerley
(ii)
276 28 – – 50 354 377
G W Battersby (appointed 11 September 2006) 19 – – – – 19 –
A E Isaac (appointed 11 September 2006) 22 – – – – 22 –
R K Bacher (resigned 11 September 2006)
(i)
89 3 3 – – 95 313
Dr N C Bain (resigned 11 September 2006) 22 – 1 – – 23 77
W F Brindle (resigned 11 September 2006)
(i) (ii)
89 11––– 100 265
C P Fry (resigned 11 September 2006)
(i)
106 12––– 118 289
M C Garland (resigned 11 September 2006)
(iii)
––––– – –
K A Ruffles (resigned 11 September 2006)
(i)
95 11––– 106 254
1,228 95 4 – 100 1,427 2,062
Notes to Table 1:
(i) The amounts of remuneration above refer to the periods of time during which the Directors held office. Messrs Bacher, Brindle, Fry and Ruffles continue to act as
employees of the Company following their resignation as Directors. No payments were made to any of these employees in connection with such resignations. 
(ii) In respect of Messrs Kennerley and Brindle (who were otherwise limited as to the level of their potential pension), the Previous Remuneration Committee granted an additional
non-pensionable supplement representing a fixed 18% of their salary (22% if their normal retirement age is 60) insofar as their salaries exceeded the permitted maximum by
reference to which pensions could be calculated under the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. These supplements are reflected in the amounts stated in Table 1.
(iii) An amount of £50,000 (2006: £100,000) was payable to a third party, Permira Advisers LLP , in respect of the services of Mr M C Garland to the Group.
(iv) No bonus payments were made to Executive Directors in respect of the 2006/07 Annual Bonus Scheme.
(v) Messrs Radcliffe and Kennerley were two of a number of employees who were rewarded for the extra work undertaken in respect of the IPO under an arrangement
as disclosed in the Prospectus.
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
11 Oct 06
25 Oct 06
8 Nov 06
22 Nov 06
6 Dec 06
20 Dec 06
3 Jan 07
17 Jan 07
31 Jan 07
14 Feb 07
28 Feb 07
28 Mar 07
14 Mar 07
Value (pence)
HRG FTSE 350 Support Services Source: [Datastream] HRG Annual Report 2007 45
Table 2: Directors’ pensions
The following Directors received entitlement to defined benefit pension benefits during the year:-
Transfer value 
Transfer Accrued Accrued Increase in of increase in 
value at benefits entitlement Transfer value transfer value Accrued accrued benefits 
start of earned in at the end at the end less Directors’ benefits net of less Directors’
period the period of the period of the period contributions inflation contributions
Age £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
D J C Radcliffe 54 3,429 13 193 3,861 413 8 245
J F W Kennerley 58 144 3 15 190 40 2 27
R K Bacher 55 114 3 9 163 26 3 29
W F Brindle 45 123 3 20 155 26 2 16
K A Ruffles 54 1,385 – 93 1,540 155 – –
C P Fry 61 3,303––––––
8,498 22 330 5,909 660 15 317
Notes to Table 2:
(i) The amounts of benefits above refer to the full year. For Messrs Bacher, Brindle and Ruffles this includes benefits in respect of the period after their resignation as
Directors. Chris Fry reached retirement date on 6 April 2006. The pension fund provided a cash sum on retirement of £515,270 and a pension of £110,091 per annum.
The transfer value of his benefits at 31 March 2006 was £3,303,307. 
(ii) All Directors shown above are members of the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme, except for Reto Bacher who is a member of the Swiss defined pension scheme.
Table 3: The interests of Directors’ and Key Management in long-term incentive schemes and share options
The interests of the Executive Directors in the PSP , CSOP and the Sharesave Scheme are set out in the following table:
Date of Earliest Granted Number at Number at 
grant exercise date Expiry date Exercise price in year 31 March 2007 1 April 2006
D J C Radcliffe
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – 206,434 206,434 –
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p 424,696 424,696 –
Sharesave (5 year) 16.02.07 1.04.12 31.10.12 82.0p 19,969 19,969 –
651,099 651,099 –
J F W Kennerley
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – 131,367 131,367 –
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p 270,261 270,261 –
Sharesave (5 year) 16.02.07 1.04.12 31.10.12 82.0p 19,969 19,969 –
421,597 421,597 –
Key management
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – 752,495 752,495 –
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p 1,548,100 1,548,100 –
Sharesave (3 and 5 year) 16.02.07 1.04.12 31.10.10 82.0p 75,424 75,424 –
2,376,019 2,376,019 –
Notes to Table 3:
(i) No other Directors have been granted share options in the shares of the Company. None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year.
All options were granted in respect of qualifying services.
(ii) The options were granted at nil cost to the Directors and were in respect of past performance.
(iii) No options were exercised or lapsed during the year.
(iv) The market price of the Company’s shares at the end of the financial year was 96.0p and the range of the market prices during the year following the date of grant was
between 95.0p and 105.5p. The market price of the Company’s shares at the commencement of trading on 13 December 2006, the date on which the PSP and CSOP
options were granted, was 96.0p. REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
46 HRG Annual Report 2007
Our responsibilities...
Table 4: Directors’ share interests
Other than as noted in Table 3 above, the interests of the Directors and Key Management in Hogg Robinson Group plc’s shares are
set out in the following table:
Ordinary Preference
Ordinary Preference shares shares
shares shares 31 March 2006 31 March 2006
31 March 2007 31 March 2007 Number Number
Number Number (See note (i)) (See note (ii))
Current Directors:
J D Coombe 111,111 – ––
D J C Radcliffe 1,650,500 – 2,200,666 2,598
J F W Kennerley 633,298 – 791,622 50,962
G W Battersby 33,333 – ––
A E Isaac 33,333 – ––
Other Directors who held office prior to the IPO:
Dr N C Bain
(iii)
–– 1,280,682 64,694
R K Bacher
(iv)
–– 342,316 6,312
W F Brindle
(iv)
–– 489,034 578
C P Fry
(iv)
–– 733,538 22,145
M C Garland
(v)
–– ––
K A Ruffles
(iv)
–– 733,538 868
Key Management
(iv)
1,870,386 – 1,104,610 257,950
4,331,961 – 7,676,006 406,107
Notes to Table 4:
(i) The Company had several different classes of Ordinary shares prior to the IPO, namely ‘A’ Ordinary shares, ‘B’ Ordinary shares and ‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares.
Immediately prior to the IPO and as part of the capitalisation of the Company in preparation for the IPO all these old share classes were reclassified as Ordinary shares
of 1p each together with a bonus issue which was made to all shareholders on the basis of 25 Ordinary shares for every 1 Ordinary share held. For comparative
purposes, the number of shares held as at 31 March 2006 has consequently been restated to reflect the reclassification and bonus issue which actually became
effective on 12 October 2006.
(ii) The Company previously had Preference shares of £1 in existence, all of which were redeemed on 12 October 2006 as part of the IPO. Upon redemption, the Company
paid the nominal amount plus a redemption premium equal to 10% compounded on the nominal amount and premium.
(iii) Neville Bain resigned as a Director on 11 September 2006 and his interests at 31 March 2007 are accordingly not required to be disclosed. 
(iv) Messrs Bacher, Brindle, Fry, and Ruffles all ceased to be Directors on 11 September 2006. In the table above they are identified separately as at 31 March 2006, since
they were Directors of the Company on that date, but are included within Key Management for the year ended 31 March 2007. Key Management at 31 March 2007
consisted of 9 persons (2006: 5 persons).
(v) Mike Garland ceased to be a Director on 11 September 2006. At 31 March 2006 Mike Garland held an indirect economic interest in the Ordinary shares and Preference
shares through Permira Advisers LLP . The interests of Permira Advisers LLP are listed below:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Number Number
Ordinary shares (See note (i) to table 4) 21,284,301 63,759,202
Preference shares (See note (ii) to table 4) – 36,171,080
(vi) The Directors’ interests as at 28 June 2007 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report and a date no more than one month prior to the date of
the notice convening the AGM), were the same as at 31 March 2007.
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary 
28 June 2007 The facts and figures...
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HRG Annual Report 2007 47 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the Directors’
remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Consolidated Financial Statements for each financial year are
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the
Group. In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements the
Directors are required to:
(a) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
(b) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
(c) state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the Consolidated Financial Statements;
(d) prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements on the going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group will continue in business. 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the 
above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable
them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of the
financial information, including the Annual Report, on the Hogg
Robinson Group plc website, www.hoggrobinsongroup.com.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and
dissemination of Consolidated Financial Statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
28 June 2007
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
48 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Hogg
Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and
the related notes. These Consolidated Financial Statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2007 and on the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the Combined Code (2003) specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the
Directors’Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Review, the Financial Review, the Remuneration Report and the
Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the Directors in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2007
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
– the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
28 June 2007
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Consolidated
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
HRG Annual Report 2007 49 Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 311,388 297,228
Operating expenses 4 (276,008) (257,919)
Operating profit 35,380 39,309
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 38,999 36,222 
Exceptional items 4 (3,619) 3,087 
Operating profit 35,380 39,309 
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 12 404 169
Finance income 6 1,255 2,225
Finance costs 6 (24,160) (39,572)
Profit before tax 12,879 2,131
Income taxes 7 (3,087) (799)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9,792 1,332
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 8 4,870 (8,077)
Profit/(loss) for the year 14,662 (6,745)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 13,436 (7,587)
Minority interests 24 1,226 842
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes pence pence
Earnings/(loss) per share 9
Continuing operations, basic 4.3 0.5
Continuing operations, diluted 4.3 0.5
Discontinued operations, basic 2.4 (7.8)
Discontinued operations, diluted 2.4 (7.8)
Total, basic 6.7 (7.3)
Total, diluted 6.7 (7.3)
The notes on pages 54 to 93 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
50 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
Notes £’000 £’000
Non current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 10 219,214 215,312
Property, plant and equipment 11 10,793 10,686
Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 3,296 4,548
Trade and other receivables 14 545 1,603
Deferred tax assets 20 37,775 40,250
271,623 272,399
Current assets
Financial assets – other investments 13 – 1,750
Trade and other receivables 14 107,543 112,740
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 15 301 429
Current tax assets 81 498
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 61,336 68,879
169,261 184,296
Total assets 440,884 456,695
Non current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (160,392) (287,771)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (3,795) (3,867)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (59,932) (124,523)
(224,119) (416,161)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (2,998) (7,335)
Current tax liabilities (8,359) (7,817)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 15 (8) (47)
Trade and other payables 18 (160,632) (168,261)
Provisions 19 (3,504) (5,756)
(175,501) (189,216)
Total liabilities (399,620) (605,377)
Net assets/(liabilities) 41,264 (148,682)
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 22 3,056 37
Share warrants 22 – 5,290
Share premium 22 171,289 3,604
Other reserves 23 1,253 1,208
Retained earnings 23 (137,605) (159,769)
37,993 (149,630)
Minority interests 24 3,271 948
Total equity 41,264 (148,682)
For details of the restatement for 31 March 2006 refer to note 25.
The notes on pages 54 to 93 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 50 to 93 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 June 2007 and were signed
on its behalf by:
D J C Radcliffe, Director J F W Kennerley, Director
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2007
HRG Annual Report 2007 51 Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions 29 41,009 30,603
Pension contributions following IPO 21 (25,000) –
Other pension contributions in respect of deferred pensioners 21 (16,031) –
Interest paid (14,988) (17,298)
Tax paid (3,036) (2,092)
Net cash flows (used in)/generated from operating activities (18,046) 11,213
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 25 (8,782) (20,337)
Acquisition of associates, joint ventures and other investments 12,13 (1,253) (1,689)
Disposals 8 3,165 112,863
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,530) (5,249)
Purchase of intangible assets (2,573) (2,155)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 167 56
Interest received 1,295 1,970
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 202 243
Cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities (12,309) 85,702
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (297,897) (81,662)
New borrowings 164,051 11,202
Issue costs of new borrowings (2,549) (1,754)
Issue of shares 22 180,160 6
Issue of share warrants 22 88 –
Issue and listing costs of shares 22 (18,682) –
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (736) (926)
Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities 24,435 (73,134)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (5,920) 23,781
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (5,920) 23,781
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 68,577 44,052
Exchange rate effects (2,533) 744
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 60,124 68,577
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 61,336 68,879
Overdrafts 17 (1,212) (302)
60,124 68,577
The notes on pages 54 to 93 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
52 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) for the year 14,662 (6,745)
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Currency translation differences (99) (4,632)
Actuarial gain 21 12,516 13,559
Deferred tax movement on pension liability (3,788) (4,524)
8,629 4,403
Total recognised income and expense 23,291 (2,342)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 22,065 (3,184)
Minority interests 24 1,226 842
23,291 (2,342)
The notes on pages 54 to 93 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
HRG Annual Report 2007 53 Basis of preparation: International Financial Reporting Standards
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(‘IFRS’) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union,
IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the IFRS financial statements requires the use
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the period. Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions,
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates, as
noted in the key management judgements policy on page 58.
Basis of accounting
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a
going concern basis.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on
the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain
financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years
presented. No changes have been made to the accounting policies
by comparison with those applied in the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the year ended 31 March 2006. However, the Group
has entered into new arrangements for share-based payments for
employees, and the requirements of IFRS 2, Share-based Payments,
have been applied to these schemes for the first time.
The Group has not adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures,
in advance of its mandatory application to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2008.
Amendments to published standards effective in 2007
IAS 19 (Amendment), Employee benefits. This amendment
introduces the option of an alternative recognition approach for
actuarial gains and losses. The Group has previously adopted an
accounting policy for recognition of actuarial gains and losses,
choosing to recognise all actuarial gains and losses in the year.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007
but not relevant to the Group
– IAS 21 (Amendment), Net investment in a foreign operation;
– IAS 39 (Amendment), Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast
intragroup transactions;
– IAS 39 (Amendment), The fair value option;
– IAS 39 and IFRS 4 (Amendment), Financial guarantee contracts;
– IFRS 1, (Amendment), First-time adoption of international
financial reporting standards;
– IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease;
– IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results and
net assets of Hogg Robinson Group plc, the Company, and its
subsidiaries. Together these form the Group. Subsidiary
companies have been consolidated from the date of acquisition
to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities in which the Group has the power to
govern the financial and operating activities.
The cost of acquisition of subsidiaries is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over fair
value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Accounting
policies of newly acquired subsidiaries have been changed where
necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Transactions with minority interests
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority
interests as transactions with third parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the
Group that are recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in changes to goodwill,
where there is a difference between consideration paid and the
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of
the subsidiary.
Associates and joint ventures
Joint ventures are entities, other than subsidiaries, in which the
Group shares control as a party to a contract. Associates are entities,
other than subsidiaries or joint ventures, in which the Group has
the power to participate in the financial and policy decisions.
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures is
included in the Consolidated Income Statement. Investments in
associates and joint ventures are included in the Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
54 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures...
1 General information and accounting policies HRG Annual Report 2007 55
Balance Sheet at cost adjusted by subsequent share of profits
or losses, and any impairment. When the Group’s share of losses
in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in
it, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the
associate or joint venture.
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged
in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of other business segments. The Group
reports its results on the basis of one business segment, which is
business services in the corporate travel market, ‘Business Travel’ .
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within
a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and
returns which are different from those of segments operating in
other economic environments. The Group presents its results on
the basis of three geographic segments, Europe, North America
and Asia Pacific (‘AsPac’), and a ‘Central’ segment (which includes
revenues from global marketing agreements and distribution
and system usage agreements with suppliers, and costs and
expenses associated with central group functions, primarily
including management, finance, technology development,
human resources, legal and marketing).
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for
goods and services provided in the normal course of business,
net of discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales
related taxes. Revenue does not include transactions entered
into by Group clients for which the Group acts as agent.
Revenue represents service fees earned from clients as well as
revenue and commissions from suppliers.
Client service fees are earned by charging a transaction or
management fee for airline or other transactions, based on
contractual agreements with travel clients. Transaction revenue is
recognised at the time of ticketing of the travel arrangement
with the exception of hotel related income, which is recognised
at time of stay. Management fees are recognised over the period
of time that the service is provided to the client.
Supplier revenues are earned under sales and marketing
agreements, incentive arrangements and distribution and system
usage agreements. In such cases, revenue is measured at each
balance sheet date as total anticipated income multiplied by the
percentage stage of completion of the contract.
In certain circumstances, suppliers pay commission on airline tickets
issued. This revenue is recognised at the time a ticket is purchased.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are measured
at their fair value at the balance sheet date and compared to the
liabilities of those schemes at the same date, measured on an
actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method. The
discount rate used is the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
Costs of defined benefit pension schemes arising from employee
service in the current period are charged to operating expenses.
The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities
relating to employee service in prior periods but arising in the
current period as a result of benefit improvements is charged to
operating expenses over the period during which such
improvements vest. The expected return on the schemes’ assets
and the increase during the period in the present value of the
schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in
other finance income. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in
the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits may be payable when employment is
terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date,
or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in
exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination
benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either
terminating the employment of current employees according
to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal,
or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made
to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses
based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit and
cash flows attributable to the Company’s shareholders after
certain adjustments.
Share-based incentives
The Group operates several equity-settled share-based incentive
schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards is calculated
at grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting
period. For awards with vesting conditions based on market
conditions (particularly, those based on total shareholder return
compared with external benchmarks), the likelihood of vesting is
assessed at the date of grant and is not subsequently amended
in arriving at the expense for each year in the vesting period. All
other awards are re-assessed at each balance sheet date, with
the expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement,
including the impact of changes of previous estimates of the
1 General information and accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
56 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures...
likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the year gives rise to a
corresponding credit to equity.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those significant items which due to their
size and nature are separately disclosed to provide a full
understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the surplus of the purchase consideration
over the Group’s share of the fair value of the separable net
assets of the subsidiary or associate acquired. Goodwill on
acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments
accounted for using the equity method and is tested for
impairment as part of the Group’s total goodwill. Separately
recognised goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in operating expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The review of impairment includes examination of anticipated
cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill
relates. Cash generating units are determined by country.
Goodwill is written down to its estimated recoverable amount,
being the higher of:
– fair value, the amount obtainable from sale on an arm’s length
basis, less the costs of disposal;
– the value in use, the net present value of future cash flows
expected to be generated from the business.
When a business is disposed of the carrying amount of goodwill
applicable is taken into account in determining the profit or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to
IFRS, 1 April 2003, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without
physical substance. They are stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment. Cost includes third party
purchases, the directly attributable costs of internally generated
assets and the fair value of identifiable intangible assets arising
on acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2003.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of all intangible assets, less
the estimated residual value, using the straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives as follows:
Computer software and intellectual property 3-10 years
Client relationships in acquired businesses 10 years
Amortisation is charged to operating expenses in the
Consolidated Income Statement.
Computer software includes the cost of internally generated
software which is capitalised when it is probable that economic
benefits will flow to the Group from the asset being developed,
and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical
feasibility can be demonstrated. Capitalisation ceases when the
asset being developed is ready for use.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment. Cost is defined as expenditure that
is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of all property, plant and
equipment, less the estimated residual value, using the straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Long-term leaseholds 50 years
Short-term leasehold premiums and
structural leasehold improvements the lease term
IT and office equipment 2-7 years
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the
balance sheet date. Currency swaps are stated at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Exchange movements on foreign
currency borrowings and changes in the fair value of currency
swaps are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the year in
which they are incurred.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Other financial instruments are stated at fair value with
differences on valuation taken to the Consolidated Income
Statement. These include interest rate caps and amounts
1 General information and accounting policies continued HRG Annual Report 2007 57
receivable or payable in foreign currency together with the
forward foreign currency exchange contracts used to fix their
value. Fair values are derived from published financial data.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of
its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Preference shares, which are mandatorily redeemable on a
specific date, are classified as liabilities. The dividends on these
Preference shares are recognised in the Consolidated Income
Statement as finance costs.
Foreign currencies
Items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of each
of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the entity operates
(‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated Financial
Statements are presented in sterling which is the Company’s
functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from
the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in
equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net
investment hedges.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures
and associates in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
results of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation at closing rates
of net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates,
together with those on foreign currency loans which finance
them, are taken to reserves and reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected
to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of
transition to IFRS as a sterling denominated asset.
Leasing
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Other leases are
classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are
included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated
over the shorter of the lease term or its useful economic life. Lease
obligations are stated net of finance charges attributable to future
periods. Finance costs are allocated over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals, net of any incentives received from the
lessor, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over
the life of the lease.
Taxation
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using
tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as
a liability in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the period in
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be necessary to settle the
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions
for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a
detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash
and cash equivalents includes bank balances and deposits with
original maturities of three months or less. It also includes overdrafts
which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management and
are likely to fluctuate from overdrawn to positive balances.
1 General information and accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
58 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures...
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Mandatorily redeemable
Preference shares are classified as liabilities. Incremental costs
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are
shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations are entities which have been disposed
of and which represent a separate major line of business or
geographical area of operations.
Critical accounting estimates
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.
Key management judgements
The principal management judgements made in the preparation
of these Consolidated Financial Statements are:
– the assessment of the impairment of goodwill at each balance
sheet date (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by each business in the Group;
– the evaluation of retirement benefit obligations. This depends
on the actuarial assumptions set out in note 21, including
estimates of future returns on scheme assets;
– the evaluation of the recoverability of deferred tax assets (see
note 20), which depends on the assessment of the probability
that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits
available in future against which to realise them;
– the valuation of client relationships for intangible assets at
acquisition (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to
be generated by existing clients at acquisition;
– within revenue there are key judgements made by
management in terms of revenue recognition. The Group
uses a percentage of completion method to measure
supplier revenues earned under sales and marketing
agreements, incentive arrangements and distribution and
usage agreements.
Risk management policy
The Group’s treasury policy and foreign exchange risk
management policy includes avoiding transactions of a
speculative nature.
A hedging policy is followed to protect the net assets of the
Group, protecting profits and minimising interest costs.
Intercompany loans in foreign currencies are hedged with foreign
exchange contracts (‘currency swaps’), matching the effective
currency receivable to external currency borrowing or to sterling.
Forward foreign exchange cover is obtained for known major
payments and receipts in foreign currencies.
Interest rate caps are used to establish a maximum interest rate
on parts of long-term borrowings while enabling the Group to
benefit from short-term interest rate movements at a level below
that maximum rate.
The Group arranges central borrowings facilities and maintains
local banking relationships to enable it to meet payment
obligations as they fall due, taking into account information from
its cash forecasts and business plans. The amounts of unused
borrowing facilities are set out in note 17.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash,
trade and other receivables and investments, which represent
the Group’s potential exposure to credit risk. The Group’s credit
risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of
allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s
management based on prior experience and their assessment of
the current economic environment.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments
is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with
exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and clients.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient
cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability
to close out market positions. Due to the nature of the underlying
business, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by
keeping committed credit lines available.
Settlement of trade receivables and trade payables
Trade receivables and trade payables include amounts arising on
the settlement of transactions entered into by the Group’s clients
with respect to which the Group is acting as agent. These balances
are generally due for settlement within one month or less of
ticketing of the transaction, frequently with mechanisms of
automated payments. In some cases the terms of payment provide
for the Group to receive or pay penalty interest on late settlements.
1 General information and accounting policies continued
2 Financial instruments HRG Annual Report 2007 59
3 Business and geographical segments
Business segmentation
All revenue, operating profit for the year, assets and liabilities, capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation from continuing
operations derived from one primary segment, Business Travel.
Geographical segmentation
Segment information is provided for regions reflecting the principal economic environments in which the Group operates.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
External revenue from clients by origin (where the Group is located)
Central 14,337 7,476
Other Europe 231,346 231,899
Europe 245,683 239,375
North America 53,921 46,309
AsPac 11,784 11,544
311,388 297,228
External revenue from clients by geographical area (where the client is located)
Europe 243,383 239,480
North America 56,153 46,236
AsPac 11,852 11,512
311,388 297,228
Total assets by geographical location
Europe 257,283 284,310
North America 75,419 55,200
AsPac 8,990 7,558
341,692 347,068
Cash and cash equivalent assets 61,336 68,879
Current tax assets 81 498
Deferred tax assets 37,775 40,250
440,884 456,695
Capital expenditure by geographical location
Europe 5,307 6,467
North America 1,754 651
AsPac 566 286
7,627 7,404
AsPac refers to the Asia Pacific region. 4 Operating expenses
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Staff costs (note 5) 172,402 166,782
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 9,078 7,832
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1,167 1,156
Operating lease rentals – buildings 12,518 11,947
Operating lease rentals – other assets 2,438 3,884
Other expenses 78,405 66,318
276,008 257,919
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Exceptional items
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (note 7) 2,929 3,865
Rebranding costs 2,672 –
IPO costs charged in operating results (note 22) 4,016 –
Pension past service credit – defined benefit schemes (note 21) (6,298) (6,952)
Pension past service charge – defined contribution schemes 300 –
3,619 (3,087)
Operating expenses 272,389 261,006
Total operating expenses 276,008 257,919
Operating expenses in the year ended 31 March 2006 have been restated to reflect reclassification of costs between Auditors’
remuneration for audit services, operating lease rentals and other expenses.
Rebranding costs have arisen as a result of the Group rebranding itself under the HRG name during the year.
IPO refers to Initial Public Offering in relation to the Group’s global offer and admission to the Official List of the Financial Services
Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange (note 22).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
60 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 4 Operating expenses continued
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Charged to operating expenses
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and Consolidated Financial Statements 300 312
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 867 844
Other services provided to comply with legislation 2,575 742
Services related to taxation 369 153
Services relating to recruitment and remuneration 55 19
Services relating to corporate finance transactions 2 617
All other services 2 53
4,170 2,740
Capitalised on acquisition
Services relating to corporate finance transactions 277 789
277 789
Charged to equity
Other services provided to comply with legislation 4,339 –
4,339 –
Other services provided by PwC to comply with legislation include services in respect of the IPO at a cost of £6,629,000 (2006: £742,000),
half year review fees of £272,000 (2006: £nil) and other fees of £13,000 (2006: £nil).
In addition to the above services, the Company’s auditor acted as auditor to the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. The
appointment of auditors to the Group’s pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of that audit are agreed by the trustees of the
scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group. The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditor for audit
services to the pension scheme during the year were £19,000 (2006: £18,000).
5 Staff costs
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Salaries 149,063 145,216
Social security costs 18,459 17,415
Pension costs 3,285 2,416
Redundancy and termination costs 1,451 1,735
Share-based incentives 144 –
172,402 166,782
Pension costs comprise
Defined benefit schemes (note 21) 3,921 4,616
Defined contribution schemes 5,362 4,752
Pension past service credit – defined benefit schemes (note 21) (6,298) (6,952)
Pension past service charge – defined contribution schemes 300 –
3,285 2,416
HRG Annual Report 2007 61 5 Staff costs continued
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
number number
Average number of staff
Business Travel 6,206 5,954
Benefits and Consulting Services division – 1,005
6,206 6,959
The Benefits and Consulting Services division is a discontinued operation.
6 Finance income and finance costs
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Finance income 1,255 2,225
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (14,451) (19,616)
Amortisation of issue costs on bank loans (2,524) (6,481)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (14) (19)
Premium on Preference shares (4,889) (7,763)
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (1,985) (5,258)
Other finance charges (297) (435)
Finance costs (24,160) (39,572)
Net finance costs (22,905) (37,347)
7 Income taxes
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Current tax
Tax on profits of the year 4,558 4,856
Adjustments in respect of the previous years (502) 910
Total current tax 4,056 5,766
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,067 (999)
Adjustments in respect of the previous years (2,107) (103)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2,929) (3,865)
Total deferred tax (969) (4,967)
Taxation charge 3,087 799
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
62 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 7 Income taxes continued
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
The tax charge is split as follows
United Kingdom 908 (194)
Overseas 5,108 4,858
Adjustment to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2,929) (3,865)
Taxation charge 3,087 799
The tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%) (2006: 30%) as explained below:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) before tax
Continuing operations 12,879 2,131
Discontinued operations 4,870 (8,077)
17,749 (5,946)
Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 5,325 (1,784)
Effects of
Partial recognition for deferred tax – losses 1,615 941
Partial recognition for deferred tax – other differences (15) (2,369)
Non-deductible goodwill impairment 879 5,264
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3,058 3,075
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2,929) (3,865)
Overseas tax rate differential (623) (3)
Non-taxable income (267) (190)
Non-taxable chargeable gain (1,461) (1,048)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2,609) 910
Other 114 (132)
Taxation charge 3,087 799
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets
The Group has acquired businesses with tax losses and other deferred tax assets. These have been recognised in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on acquisition to the extent that they were expected to be realised based on information at the acquisition date.
The Group has subsequently been able to use tax losses and other assets to a greater extent than anticipated on acquisition thereby
reducing the value of goodwill. In order to comply with the requirements of IAS12, Income Taxes, a charge was reported in operating
expenses (as shown in note 4).
The Group makes maximum use of all brought forward losses and other available reliefs in mitigating cash tax payable.
HRG Annual Report 2007 63 8 Discontinued operations
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Benefits and Consulting Services division
Revenue – 17,450
Other expenses – (15,833)
Trading profit – 1,617
Impairment of goodwill – (13,682)
Profit on disposal of the Benefits and Consulting Services division 4,765 1,452
TRX Inc
Change in fair value of investment – 496
Profit on disposal of investment 105 2,040
Net profit/(loss) attributable to discontinued operations 4,870 (8,077)
Other expenses included depreciation and amortisation charges of £401,000 at 31 March 2006.
Tax expense in respect of discontinued operations was £nil (2006: £nil).
The Benefits and Consulting Services division was sold on 8 July 2005. During the year ended 31 March 2007 additional contingent
disposal proceeds were received by the Group.
The contribution of the discontinued operations on the Group’s cash flows were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash flows provided by operating activities – 322
Proceeds on disposal of the Benefits and Consulting Services division 1,484 102,777
Proceeds on disposal of TRX Inc and partial disposal of Partnership Travel Consulting Inc 1,681 10,086
Disposals 3,165 112,863
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – (10)
Cash flows provided by investing activities 3,165 112,853
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
64 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 9 Earnings per share
The following amounts have been used in the calculation of earnings per share. The average number of shares in issue takes into
account the exercise of warrants and the 25-for-1 bonus issue of shares which took place in October 2006 in connection with the IPO.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of earnings per share
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9,792 1,332
Less: amount attributable to minority interests (1,226) (842)
Continuing operations 8,566 490
Discontinued operations (note 8) 4,870 (8,077)
13,436 (7,587)
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
number number
000s 000s
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue
Issued (for basic EPS) 199,216 103,291
Issuable under share options and performance awards 1,871 –
Less: issuable at average market price (1,686) –
For diluted EPS 199,401 103,291
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
number number
000s 000s
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue on a normalised basis
Issued (for basic EPS) 305,634 103,291
Issuable under share options and performance awards 1,871 –
Less: issuable at average market price (1,686) –
For diluted EPS 305,819 103,291
HRG Annual Report 2007 65 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Goodwill 190,570 188,527
Other intangible assets 28,644 26,785
219,214 215,312
Goodwill
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Cost
At beginning of year 214,943 336,769
Acquisitions (note 25) 10,230 30,874
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2,929) (3,865)
Disposals (39) (149,189)
Exchange differences (5,219) 354
216,986 214,943
Accumulated impairment losses
At beginning of year 26,416 75,683
Impairment losses for the year – 13,682
Disposals – (62,949)
Exchange differences – –
26,416 26,416
Carrying amount 190,570 188,527
Goodwill of business operations in the Benefits and Consulting Services division was subject to an impairment charge of £13,682,000
in the year to 31 March 2006. The recoverable amounts of goodwill used in the assessment comprised its fair value less costs to sell,
taking into account indications then available of proceeds on the disposal of those businesses.
Otherwise the recoverable amount used in the assessment of goodwill for all cash generating units comprises value in use. This has
been calculated by discounting at 10% the anticipated pre-tax cash flows obtained annually in the Group’s financial forecasting
processes. The forecasts are prepared taking into account historical trading performance and anticipated changes in future market
conditions. The detailed forecasts cover a period of four years from the balance sheet date; cash flows are projected beyond that
period based on anticipated long-term growth of 5%.
For information regarding the restatement of year ended 31 March 2006, refer to note 25.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
66 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill consists of the following amounts related to cash generating units of the Group:
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
UK 56,897 56,745
Sweden 14,563 14,563
Norway 17,799 17,799
Germany 35,562 38,953
Switzerland 13,331 14,082
USA 30,851 30,774
Other 21,567 15,611
190,570 188,527
Other intangible assets
Computer software
Externally Internally Client
acquired generated relationships Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At cost
At 1 April 2005 8,262 2,207 22,102 32,571
Additions 1,340 815 – 2,155
Acquisitions through business combinations – – 4,721 4,721
Disposals (156) – – (156)
Exchange differences 132 – 414 546
At 31 March 2006 9,578 3,022 27,237 39,837
Additions 1,007 1,566 – 2,573
Acquisitions through business combinations 3,744 – 1,121 4,865
Reclassification of assets – – 431 431
Disposals (23) – – (23)
Exchange differences (100) – (1,417) (1,517)
At 31 March 2007 14,206 4,588 27,372 46,166
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2005 5,690 757 2,578 9,025
Amortisation charge for the year 982 523 2,534 4,039
Disposals (130) – – (130)
Exchange differences 67 – 51 118
At 31 March 2006 6,609 1,280 5,163 13,052
Amortisation charge for the year 1,441 700 2,582 4,723
Disposals (13) – – (13)
Exchange differences (17) – (223) (240)
At 31 March 2007 8,020 1,980 7,522 17,522
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2005 2,572 1,450 19,524 23,546
At 31 March 2006 2,969 1,742 22,074 26,785
At 31 March 2007 6,186 2,608 19,850 28,644
HRG Annual Report 2007 67 11 Property, plant and equipment
IT and
office
equipment Properties Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At cost
At 1 April 2005 49,214 9,549 58,763
Additions 4,173 1,076 5,249
Acquisitions through business combinations 430 273 703
Disposals (17,936) (3,364) (21,300)
Exchange differences 840 274 1,114
At 31 March 2006 36,721 7,808 44,529
Additions 3,860 1,194 5,054
Acquisitions through business combinations 30 56 86
Disposals (1,180) (5) (1,185)
Exchange differences (1,269) (281) (1,550)
At 31 March 2007 38,162 8,772 46,934
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2005 38,481 4,129 42,610
Depreciation charge for the year 3,747 447 4,194
Disposals (13,600) (231) (13,831)
Exchange differences 730 140 870
At 31 March 2006 29,358 4,485 33,843
Depreciation charge for the year 3,632 723 4,355
Disposals (868) (5) (873)
Exchange differences (1,046) (138) (1,184)
At 31 March 2007 31,076 5,065 36,141
Carrying value
At 1 April 2005 10,733 5,420 16,153
At 31 March 2006 7,363 3,323 10,686
At 31 March 2007 7,086 3,707 10,793
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Contractual commitments for the acquisition of:
Property, plant and equipment 55 961
Intangible assets 41 99
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 331 267
Other property, plant and equipment in subsidiaries subject to security for borrowing facilities – 9,630
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
68 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 12 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 4,548 2,780
Additions 1,253 1,508
Net share of profits for the year after tax and minority interests 404 169
Dividends (320) (243)
Reclassification of investment as a subsidiary (2,439) –
Exchange differences (150) 334
3,296 4,548
Principal associates and joint ventures
Country of
Proportion held
incorporation 2007 2006
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 51% 51%
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited China 51% 51%
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co. Germany 33% 33%
Business Travel International BV Netherlands 50% 50%
Associates
Liga Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
WELT Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Spendvision Holdings Limited United Kingdom * 43%
*Spendvision Holdings Limited is a subsidiary as at 31 March 2007 following a further investment (note 25).
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Current assets 6,784 21,058
Long-term assets 599 1,841
Current liabilities (4,130) (20,394)
Long-term liabilities (187) (610)
Revenue 20,405 1,213
Profit/(loss) after tax 263 (270)
Aggregate amounts relating to associates
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Total assets 869 3,389
Total liabilities (639) (736)
Revenue 1,300 2,182
Profit after tax 141 439
HRG Annual Report 2007 69 13 Financial assets – other investments
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At fair value
At beginning of year 1,750 8,697
Acquisitions – 181
Disposals (1,713) (7,782)
Change in fair value – 496
Exchange differences (37) 158
– 1,750
The Group held no listed investments at 31 March 2007 (2006: £1,569,000).
14 Trade and other receivables
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables, gross 72,289 79,348
Less: provision for impairment (1,381) (2,103)
70,908 77,245
Due from joint ventures and associates 606 1,815
Other receivables 14,958 17,352
Prepayments and accrued income 21,616 17,931
108,088 114,343
Current: due within one year 107,543 112,740
Non-current: due after more than one year 545 1,603
108,088 114,343
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
For information regarding the restatement of year ended 31 March 2006, refer to note 25.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
70 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 15 Financial assets and liabilities – derivative financial instruments
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At fair value
Assets
Forward foreign exchange contracts 248 290
Interest rate caps 53 139
301 429
Liabilities
Forward foreign exchange contracts (8) (47)
Forward foreign exchange contracts consist of currency swaps, as described in note 2, together with cover obtained for known major
payments and receipts in foreign currencies. The effect of currency swaps on the exchange profile of borrowings is set out in note 17.
Interest rate caps are described in note 17.
16 Cash and cash equivalent assets
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash balances without restrictions 61,032 68,501
Cash balances with restrictions on use by the Group 304 378
61,336 68,879
The cash balances with restrictions are held to meet specific liabilities.
Cash comprises balances held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
HRG Annual Report 2007 71 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At amortised cost
Current (due within one year):
Overdrafts 1,212 302
Bank loans 1,685 6,931
Finance leases 101 102
2,998 7,335
Non-current (due after more than one year):
Bank loans 160,139 198,061
Preference shares – 89,637
Finance leases 253 73
160,392 287,771
163,390 295,106
Principal 165,725 297,497
Unamortised issue costs (2,335) (2,391)
163,390 295,106
Secured debt – 205,469
Unsecured debt 163,390 89,637
163,390 295,106
The maturity of debt is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Within one year 2,998 7,335
Between one and two years 169 8,425
Between two and five years 160,223 34,931
Beyond five years – 244,415
163,390 295,106
The fair value of borrowings approximates to book values with the exception of Preference shares. Based on discounting the amounts
payable on Preference shares at then current market interest rates, the fair value at 31 March 2006 was £96,080,000, being £6,443,000
in excess of book value.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
72 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Borrowings by currency
Sterling 102,500 213,428
Euro 5,402 22,960
Other European currencies 24,356 25,401
Canadian dollar 17,327 19,323
US dollar 11,268 11,719
Other currencies 2,537 2,275
163,390 295,106
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Effect of currency swaps
Sterling (14,691) (32,379)
Euro 3,744 3,258
Other European currencies 625 8,350
Canadian dollar 3,759 7,512
US dollar 6,318 12,493
Other currencies 245 766
– –
Borrowing by currency after currency swaps
Sterling 87,809 181,049
Euro 9,146 26,218
Other European currencies 24,981 33,751
Canadian dollar 21,086 26,835
US dollar 17,586 24,212
Other currencies 2,782 3,041
163,390 295,106
Interest rate exposure
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Floating rate 163,036 205,294
Fixed rate – Preference shares – 89,637
Other fixed rate 354 175
163,390 295,106
Sterling floating rate overdrafts have an interest rate of 1% above Bank of England base rate. Bank loans have an interest rate of 1.15%
above LIBOR.
Sterling fixed rate debt had an interest rate of 10%. Floating rate debt includes drawdowns for fixed periods of up to one month.
HRG Annual Report 2007 73 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Interest rate caps
The Group has in place interest rate caps which have the effect of limiting interest as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Total amount (£’000) 52,654 83,476
Average period to maturity 0.5 years 1.5 years
Average interest rate 5.1% 5.1%
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Undrawn facilities expiring over one year from the balance sheet date 36,977 40,182
Cumulative Preference shares
At 31 March 2006 the Company had in issue 54,086,926 cumulative Preference shares of £1 each. These were required to be
redeemed in January 2015 or earlier, provided that the Company’s subsidiary, Farnborough Limited, had first redeemed any loan
notes outstanding. The Preference shares were redeemed in October 2006 as part of the IPO (note 22). Upon redemption the
Company repaid the nominal amount plus a redemption premium equal to 10% compounded on the nominal amount and
premium. The redemption premium was included in the valuation of the debt.
The Preference shares are classified as borrowings because they comprise a contractual obligation to deliver cash to their holders.
Finance leases
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 127 108
In the second to fifth years inclusive 263 81
390 189
Less: future finance charges (36) (14)
Present value of lease obligations 354 175
Amount due for settlement within twelve months 101 102
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 253 73
354 175
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
74 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 18 Trade and other payables
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Trade payables 95,317 96,326
Due to associates and joint ventures 755 326
Social security and payroll taxes 4,892 5,775
Other payables 31,843 36,366
Accruals and deferred income 27,825 29,468
160,632 168,261
The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
19 Provisions
Reorganisation Other
restated restated Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2005 5,458 3,152 8,610
Additional provisions made in the year 2,595 – 2,595
Amounts used during the year (4,987) (287) (5,274)
Unused provisions reversed – (231) (231)
Businesses sold 20 – 20
Exchange differences 28 8 36
At 31 March 2006 3,114 2,642 5,756
Additional provisions made in the year 2,320 484 2,804
Amounts used during the year (3,371) (46) (3,417)
Unused provisions reversed (869) (607) (1,476)
Exchange differences (103) (60) (163)
At 31 March 2007 1,091 2,413 3,504
A reclassification between categories has been made to the amounts used during the year in the year ended 31 March 2006.
Provisions are classified as current liabilities because they are likely to give rise to payment within one year of the balance sheet date.
Reorganisation provisions represent redundancy and office closure costs in a number of Group companies.
Other includes provisions for onerous contracts and property dilapidations.
A provision for onerous contracts has been recognised for contracts where the expected benefits derived by the Group are lower
than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
Provision has been made for the present value of property lease commitments in respect of properties surplus to operational
requirements. Allowance has been made for anticipated sublet rental income, and costs to restore premises to their original condition
upon vacating them where such an obligation exists under the lease.
HRG Annual Report 2007 75 20 Deferred tax
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax assets
Temporary differences on pension accounting 16,463 36,458
Accelerated tax depreciation 2,996 2,359
Tax losses 12,791 4,587
Other temporary differences 9,463 1,256
Set-off against liabilities (3,938) (4,410)
37,775 40,250
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation (595) (475)
Other temporary differences (7,138) (7,802)
Set-off against assets 3,938 4,410
(3,795) (3,867)
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
(Credit)/charge on the Consolidated Income Statement
Accelerated tax depreciation (502) (649)
Tax losses (6,114) (503)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (2,929) (3,865)
Other temporary differences 8,576 50
(969) (4,967)
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the generation of future taxable profits in the
relevant geographical territory:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Tax losses 17,363 19,694
Depreciation in advance of accelerated tax depreciation 744 859
Temporary difference on pension accounting 2,474 –
Other temporary differences 15,852 6,576
36,433 27,129
At 31 March 2007, deferred tax assets include £35,062,000 (2006: £38,958,000) arising in the UK. These assets are recognised on the
basis that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits available in the future against which to realise them.
The Finance Bill 2007 proposed a reduction in the UK rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28%. Based on the UK deferred tax balances
as at 31 March 2007, this would lead to a reduction in deferred tax assets by £2,337,000 from £35,062,000 to £32,725,000.
Furthermore, in November 2006, the German government published proposals to reduce the German rate of corporation tax from
38.7% to 29.8%. Based on the German deferred tax balances at 31 March 2007, this would lead to a reduction in deferred tax assets by
£409,000 from £1,777,000 to £1,368,000.
Of the total tax losses at 31 March 2007, £493,000 is scheduled to expire by 2017.
No deferred tax is recognised on the undistributed profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as they are reinvested by the
Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Since acquisition subsidiaries have made a profit of
£30,600,000 (2006: £21,800,000) that has not been remitted to the Company.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
76 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 21 Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit pension arrangements
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension arrangement is the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (‘The UK Scheme’).
The UK Scheme was available to most UK employees until it was closed to new members in March 2003. Its benefits are based on
final pensionable salary. The increase in final pensionable salary since 31 March 2003 is limited to the lower of the increase in the
Retail Price Index and 5% per annum.
The Group also operates defined benefit schemes in Norway, Switzerland and Germany.
The following amounts have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit pension
arrangements:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Continuing operations £’000 £’000
Current service charge 3,921 4,616
Past service credit (6,298) (6,952)
Credit to operating profit (2,377) (2,336)
Charge for curtailment on disposal of the Benefits and Consulting Services division – 3,200
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 13,708 14,965
Expected return on pension scheme assets (11,723) (9,707)
Charge to finance costs 1,985 5,258
Total (credit)/charge to Consolidated Income Statement (392) 6,122
The past service credit consists of the following:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Actuarial gain on settlement of transfer values to deferred members of the UK Scheme 5,019 –
Change of rules in the UK to permit employees to take a greater proportion of their
pension entitlement as cash on retirement – 5,000
Settlement of pension liabilities in Norway 1,279 –
Curtailment of benefits in Norway – 1,445
Transfer of pension rights to a third party scheme in Germany – 507
6,298 6,952
HRG Annual Report 2007 77 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The following amounts have been recognised as movements in equity:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Actual return on scheme assets 15,757 32,063
Less: expected return on scheme assets (11,723) (9,707)
4,034 22,356
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (3,627) (1,754)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 11,734 (5,733)
Movements in respect of discontinued operations – (1,130)
Exchange rate movement 375 (180)
Movement in the year 12,516 13,559
Cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense since the transition date to IFRS, 1 April 2003 16,313 3,797
The key assumptions used for the UK Scheme were:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006 2005
Rate of increase in salary 4.30% 4.05% 4.05%
Rate of increase in final pensionable salary 3.00% 2.75% 2.75%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.00% 2.75% 2.75%
Discount rate 5.30% 4.90% 5.30%
Inflation 3.00% 2.75% 2.75%
Expected rates of return on plan assets:
Equity instruments 7.00% 7.00% 7.50%
Debt instruments 5.00% 4.70% 5.10%
Property 7.00% 7.00% 7.50%
Other assets 5.81% 4.73% 4.84%
The expected rates of return have been set taking into account current market returns for each category of asset at the balance
sheet dates.
The mortality assumptions for the UK Scheme are based on PMA/FA92 tables with allowance for future improvements projected
forward to 2012 for pensioners and 2027 for active and deferred members (2006: projected forward to 2014). Life expectancy at the
age of 65 is assumed to be:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
years years
Current pensioners
Male 19.3 19.5
Female 22.2 22.4
Future retirements
Male 20.4 19.5
Female 23.4 22.4
The change of assumptions on mortality at 31 March 2007 has added £5,100,000 to the liability for pension obligations.
The UK liability is assessed with an assumption that pensioners will take 25% of the value of their pension as a lump sum on retirement.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
78 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The provision included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations
Unfunded schemes 6,625 6,570
Wholly or partly funded schemes 268,184 303,658
274,809 310,228
Fair value of scheme assets (214,877) (185,705)
59,932 124,523
The net present value of defined benefit obligations has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 310,228 309,856
Current service cost – continuing operations 3,921 4,616
Current service cost – discontinued operations – 772
Past service credit in staff costs (6,298) (6,952)
Past service cost – disposal – 3,200
Interest cost – continuing operations 13,708 14,965
Interest cost – discontinued operations – 241
Contributions by plan participants 1,567 1,958
Liabilities disposed (73) (20,110)
Actuarial gains and losses (8,107) 9,154
Foreign currency exchange changes (1,710) 340
Benefits paid (38,427) (7,812)
At end of year 274,809 310,228
The fair value of scheme assets has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 185,705 158,793
Expected returns on plan assets – continuing operations 11,723 9,707
Expected returns on plan assets – discontinued operations – 227
Actuarial gains and losses 4,034 22,893
Foreign currency exchange changes (1,335) 160
Contributions by the employer 51,610 13,740
Contributions by plan participants 1,567 1,958
Assets disposed on sale of operations – (13,961)
Benefits paid (38,427) (7,812)
At end of year 214,877 185,705
HRG Annual Report 2007 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
80 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures...
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The assets held in defined benefit schemes were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Equity instruments 131,114 110,758
Debt instruments 55,268 44,117
Property 16,303 17,062
Other assets 12,192 13,768
214,877 185,705
None of the plan assets are represented by financial instruments of the Group. None of the plan assets are occupied or used by the Group.
The schedule of contributions for the UK Scheme has been agreed with the Trustees at 17% of pensionable salaries plus £6,250,000
per annum with effect from April 2006. This is expected to amount to £9,300,000 for the year ending 31 March 2008. It is intended
that the schedule of contributions will eliminate the deficit on the UK Scheme over ten years.
The obligations and assets are split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligations (246,655) (28,154) (274,809) (274,500) (35,728) (310,228)
Fair value of plan assets 195,175 19,702 214,877 160,485 25,220 185,705
Deficit (51,480) (8,452) (59,932) (114,015) (10,508) (124,523)
Five year experience
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligations (274,809) (310,228) (309,856) (258,656) (222,646)
Fair value of plan assets 214,877 185,705 158,793 137,251 89,666
Deficit (59,932) (124,523) (151,063) (121,405) (132,980)
Experience gains/(losses)
on plan liabilities (3,627) (1,754) (2,121) 2,620 1,783
on plan assets 4,034 22,356 5,027 15,215 (32,595)
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit is shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Contributions following IPO (25,000) –
Other contributions in respect of deferred pensioners (16,031) –
Other contributions less service cost (6,539) (5,727)
(47,570) (5,727) 22 Share capital, warrants and share premium account
Global offer and admission to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange
The Company’s shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange on 12 October 2006.
In advance of the listing, all existing shares were reclassified as Ordinary shares. 405,909 shares were issued representing the
outstanding entitlement of all warrant holders. A bonus issue of 25 new shares for each existing share was arranged resulting in issue
of 101,400,225 shares.
Under the global offer of shares, 200,000,000 new shares were issued at a price of 90p per share. A further 177,777 shares were issued
to Non-Executive Directors at a price of 90p per share.
The net cash proceeds from the issue were as follows:
£’000
Proceeds on issue of shares 180,160
Issue and listing costs paid in the year (18,682)
Costs of new loan facilities (2,549)
Net receipts in the year 158,929
Accrual for future costs (171)
Net receipts 158,758
Funds from the issue in the year were used as follows:
£’000
Payment to UK Pension Scheme 28,500
Reduction of principal amounts of borrowings 130,429
158,929
The payment to the UK Pension Scheme consists of £25,000,000 in accordance with the funding deed agreed with the Trustees of
the Scheme in advance of the IPO plus £3,500,000 to permit deferred members to transfer their entitlement out of the Scheme on
enhanced terms.
Reduction of principal amount of borrowings includes £94,526,000 to repay Preference shares and accumulated redemption premium.
The net receipts of the issue have been accounted for as follows:
Net Proceeds Costs
£’000 £’000 £’000
Share capital 2,002 2,002 –
Share premium account 163,321 178,158 (14,837)
Operating costs (4,016) – (4,016)
Deducted from debt principal (2,549) – (2,549)
158,758 180,160 (21,402)
The amount taken to share capital is the nominal value of 200,177,777 shares issued at 1p each.
The amount taken to share premium account is 200,177,777 shares issued at a premium of 89p per share (90p cash received less 1p
per share nominal value), less expenses of £14,837,000 relating to the issue and listing of new shares.
£4,016,000 has been taken to the Consolidated Income Statement as operating costs. This is an apportionment of the costs of listing
to the shares in existence before the IPO.
The costs of new debt facilities, £2,549,000, are deducted from loan principal at the onset of the facility and are amortised over the
period of the facility. Amortisation of these costs is included in finance costs.
HRG Annual Report 2007 81 22 Share capital, warrants and share premium account continued
Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 –
‘A’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 365,000
‘B’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 2,960,946
‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares of 1p each – 730,000
‘B’ Redeemable
Ordinary ‘A’ Ordinary ‘B’ Ordinary Ordinary
shares shares shares shares
number number number number
Issued and fully paid
At 1 April 2005 and 1 April 2006 – 365,000 2,555,100 730,000
Reclassification of shares 3,650,100 (365,000) (2,555,100) (730,000)
Issue of shares to warrant holders 405,909–––
Bonus issue, 25-for-1 to holders prior to IPO 101,400,225–––
IPO issue of shares 200,000,000–––
Issue of shares to Non-Executive Directors 177,777–––
At 31 March 2007 305,634,011–––
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each 3,056 –
‘A’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 4
‘B’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 26
‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares of 1p each – 7
3,056 37
Ordinary shares, ‘A’ Ordinary shares, ‘B’ Ordinary shares and ‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares have the same voting rights.
Warrants
Entitlement
Book to Ordinary
value shares
£’000 number
At 1 April 2006 5,290 404,105
Issue of additional warrants 88 1,804
Exercise of warrants (5,378) (405,909)
At 31 March 2007 ––
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
82 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 22 Share capital, warrants and share premium account continued
Share premium account
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At 1 April 3,604 3,604
Rights issue of Ordinary shares (1,014) –
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares:
Warrant holders 5,378 –
IPO 163,163 –
Non-Executive Directors 158 –
At 31 March 171,289 3,604
23 Reserves
Retained earnings
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At 1 April (159,769) (161,217)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 14,662 (6,745)
Minority interests (1,226) (842)
Actuarial gain 12,516 13,559
Deferred tax movement on pension liability (3,788) (4,524)
At 31 March (137,605) (159,769)
Other reserves
Share-based
Exchange incentives
reserve reserve Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2005 5,840 – 5,840
Currency translation differences (4,632) – (4,632)
At 1 April 2006 1,208 – 1,208
Currency translation differences (99) – (99)
Share-based incentives – 144 144
At 31 March 2007 1,109 144 1,253
HRG Annual Report 2007 83 24 Minority Interests
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At 1 April 948 1,032
Exchange differences (62) 11
Acquisitions 1,965 (11)
Disposals (70) –
Dividends paid (736) (926)
Share of profit after tax 1,226 842
At 31 March 3,271 948
Minority interests relate to the following companies, all of which are companies registered in Germany except for Spendvision
Holdings Limited, which is registered in England and Wales:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2007 2006 2006
Group interest Minority interest Group Interest Minority Interest
Reiseburo A.L.R. Atlantik-Luft-Reederei GmbH, Bonn 90% 10% 90% 10%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo GmbH & Co. KG, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd DFB Reiseburo GmbH, Ffm 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo Btlg. GmbH, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
FC Bayern Tours GmbH, Munchen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Bay Sports -Travel GmbH, Leverkusen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH, Oberhausen 100% 0% 50% 50%
Spendvision Holdings Limited 51% 49% **
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo, GmbH is a 100% owned subsidiary at 31 March 2007 following a further investment (note 25).
* Spendvision Holdings Limited became a subsidiary in May 2006 following a further investment (note 25). At 31 March 2006 it was
an associate (note 12).
25 Acquisitions
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash (paid)/received
Spendvision Holdings Limited (1,508) –
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) (2,093) –
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o (1,115) –
Ian Flint Associates (152) –
Executive Travel Associates (3,758) –
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH (841) –
Advance Meeting Partners Corporation (329) –
Partnership Travel Consulting Inc – (141)
Robustelli World Travel 452 (4,021)
Advanced Reservation Centre SRL – (33)
Sea Gate Travel Group LLC – (17,086)
Cash and deposits of businesses acquired 562 944
(8,782) (20,337)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
84 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 25 Acquisitions continued
Years ended 31 March
2006
2007 restated
£’000 £’000
Goodwill arising on acquisitions
Spendvision Holdings Limited 2,031 –
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) 2,801 –
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o 862 –
Ian Flint Associates 152 –
Executive Travel Associates 3,613 –
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH 771 –
Advance Meeting Partners Corporation – 642
Partnership Travel Consulting Inc – 141
Robustelli World Travel – 2,631
Advanced Reservation Centre SRL – 24
Sea Gate Travel Group LLC – 27,436
10,230 30,874
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Spendvision Holdings Limited, Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic), Hogg Robinson Polska
Sp. z.o.o, Executive Travel Associates and Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH is provisional subject to adjustments which may be made
within twelve months of the acquisition dates.
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being
separately identified and recognised.
Spendvision Holdings Limited
On 22 May 2006, the Group acquired an additional 8.0% in Spendvision Holdings Limited for £1,508,000, bringing its total holding to
51%. Previously this investment was accounted for as an associate (note 12). From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2007 the
company contributed £2,965,000 to revenue and reported a (£72,000) loss before interest. In the twelve months ended 31 March 2007
the company’s revenue was £3,323,000 and loss before interest was (£115,000).
Fair
Book Fair value value
value adjustments provisional
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intellectual property and software 3,863 – 3,863
Other assets and liabilities 147 – 147
Net assets acquired 4,010 – 4,010
Minority interests (1,965) – (1,965)
Net assets acquired after minority interest 2,045 – 2,045
Goodwill 2,031
4,076
Consideration 4,069
Transaction costs 7
4,076
HRG Annual Report 2007 85 25 Acquisitions continued
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic)
On 1 August 2006 the Group acquired BTI International s.r.o in the Czech Republic. The acquisition was an equity deal, including a branch
in Slovakia. Consideration was £2,000,000 in cash and £971,000 (estimate) payable on 31 July 2007 contingent on post-acquisition results.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2007 the company contributed £985,000 to revenue and £285,000 to profit before interest. It is
not practicable to disclose the revenue or profit of the acquired business for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 because the year
end for the entity acquired was different to the Group and information on trading results before acquisition is not available.
Fair
Book Fair value value
value adjustments provisional
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intellectual property and software 19 – 19
Other assets and liabilities 244 – 244
Net assets acquired 263 – 263
Goodwill 2,801
3,064
Consideration 2,971
Transaction costs 93
3,064
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o
On 31 August 2006 the Group acquired a 100% interest in the businesses of BTI Polska Sp. z.o.o and Pegrotour-Mazovia Sp. z.o.o.
These businesses were subsequently transferred to Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o, a Group company. Consideration was £868,000
in cash settled on acquisition, a further £21,000 settled in May 2007 and a reduction of (£43,000) relating to a working capital
adjustment on completion in June 2007. From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2007 the company contributed £677,000 to
revenue and reported a loss before interest of (£60,000). It is not practicable to disclose the revenue or profit of the acquired business
for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 because the assets acquired did not form the entire business for which financial
statements were available.
Fair
Book Fair value value
value adjustments provisional
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intellectual property and software 4 – 4
Other assets and liabilities 215 12 227
Net assets acquired 219 12 231
Goodwill 862
1,093
Consideration 846
Transaction costs 247
1,093
A fair value adjustment was made to bring the accounting policies of the acquired businesses in line with the Group.
Ian Flint Associates
On 1 September 2006 the Group acquired the business of Ian Flint Associates for £152,000 which was paid in cash. No assets or
liabilities were acquired. Goodwill of £152,000 was recognised.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
86 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 25 Acquisitions continued
Executive Travel Associates
On 15 February 2007 the Group acquired the business of Executive Travel Associates in the United States. Consideration of
£3,596,000 was paid in cash with a further estimate of £1,317,000 deferred, contingent on future results. From the date of acquisition
to 31 March 2007 the company contributed £846,000 to revenue and £258,000 to profit before interest. It is not practicable to
disclose the revenue or profit of the acquired business for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 because the assets acquired did
not form the entire business for which financial statements were available.
Fair
Book Fair value value
value adjustments provisional
£’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired 341 – 341
Client relationships – 1,121 1,121
341 1,121 1,462
Goodwill 3,613
5,075
Consideration 4,913
Transaction costs 162
5,075
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH
On 15 February 2007 the Group acquired the remaining 50% interest in the shares of Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH for
consideration of £841,000. The net assets amounted to £70,000 on acquisition and goodwill of £771,000 was recognised. The fair values
are provisional and subject to adjustments which can be made within twelve months of the acquisition date. The revenue and profit of
the acquired business for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 are not disclosed because these are not material to the Group.
Adjustment to amounts reported in prior years
Robustelli World Travel
In the twelve months ended 31 March 2007, £497,000 was received by the Group as a result of an agreement with the vendor to an
adjustment to the consideration paid for Robustelli World Travel in February 2006. There were also additional acquisition costs paid
in the year totalling £45,000 and an adjustment to increase net assets by £213,000. Goodwill arising on the acquisition has been
reduced by £239,000. The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2006 has been restated to reflect this adjustment.
Advance Meeting Partners Corporation
In the twelve months ended 31 March 2007 there was a reduction to the purchase price for the remaining 17.65% shareholding in
Advance Meeting Partners Corporation of £129,000 and an increase in net assets acquired of £38,000. Goodwill arising on the acquisition
has been reduced by £167,000. The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2006 has been restated to reflect this adjustment.
26 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
In 1994 Compagnie Dens Ocean NV (‘CDO’), an indirectly owned subsidiary, received a claim from the Belgian Customs authorities
resulting in a liquidator being appointed in 1995. Civil litigation is in process with criminal proceedings being considered pending the
final outcome of the civil action. The liquidator is defending the civil action vigorously and has received strong legal advice on the
strength of CDO’s case. The Directors continue to believe, on the basis of such advice, that any future impact on the net assets of the
Group would not exceed the existing provision.
The Group has potential claims against former owners of businesses acquired by the Group for (inter alia) breach of non-competition
restrictions. In the Directors’ view, the resultant value of any such claim cannot be quantified with certainty.
HRG Annual Report 2007 87 27 Operating leases
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments:
Due within one year 12,694 10,751
From second to fifth year inclusive 28,439 24,187
After five years 13,777 10,955
Total commitment 54,910 45,893
Operating lease commitments represent principally arrangements for the occupation of office properties. Property leases are
arranged taking into account local market conditions to secure the use of offices with economical rentals. At 31 March 2007 on
average property leases had 4.6 years to run (2006: 4.4 years).
28 Related parties
Remuneration of key management personnel
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,918 3,227
Post-employment benefits 177 151
Termination benefits 244 205
Share-based incentives 97 –
3,436 3,583
The ‘Key Management personnel’ of the Group are the Directors of Hogg Robinson Group plc and members of the Executive
Management Team.
Interests of Directors in the Company’s shares are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 46.
Receivable from joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 113 293
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 482 562
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co 8 960
603 1,815
Associates
WELT Reiseburo GmbH 3 –
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
88 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 28 Related parties continued
Payable to joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 15 –
Associates
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH 273 220
Liga Travel GmbH 256 27
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH 211 79
740 326
Business Travel International BV
The Group has a 50% interest (2006: 50%) in shares of Business Travel International BV (‘BTI BV’) a travel service and management
organisation. The Group is currently the managing partner of BTI BV and makes charges for staff, premises and management
expertise. Following the launch of the HRG brand the activities of BTI BV are diminishing.
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Charge to BTI BV for staff, premises and management expertise 642 1,521
China and Hong Kong
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Recharged by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 5 –
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 16 –
Recharged to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 1 128
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 487 240
Management services provided in Germany
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Associates 3 37
Joint ventures 90 154
Transactions with Permira Advisors LLP
A fee of £960,000 was paid to Permira Advisors LLP in respect of services provided for the IPO. Prior to the IPO Permira held a 58%
interest in issued Ordinary shares and 64% interest in Preference shares of the Company.
HRG Annual Report 2007 89 29 Cash generated from operations
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Profit before tax from continuing operations 12,879 2,131
Profit/(loss) before tax from discontinued operations 4,870 (8,077)
17,749 (5,946)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (note 10 and 11) 9,078 21,915
Net increase in provisions (note 19) 1,328 2,595
Effect of exchange rate movements 1,503 (1,043)
Share of results of associates and joint ventures (404) (169)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (note 8) (4,870) (3,492)
Change in fair value of investments (note 8) – (496)
Net finance costs (note 6) 22,905 37,347
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (note 7) 2,929 3,865
Pension past service credits – defined benefit schemes (note 5) (6,298) (6,952)
Pension past service charge – defined contribution schemes (note 5) 300 –
IPO costs charged in operating results (note 4) 4,016 –
Other timing differences 255 404
48,491 48,028
Cash expenditure charged to provisions (note 19) (3,417) (5,274)
Change in trade and other receivables 5,154 7,324
Change in trade and other payables (4,334) (12,255)
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit (note 21) (6,539) (5,727)
Cash effect of currency swaps 1,654 (1,493)
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions 41,009 30,603
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
90 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 30 Share-based incentives
The Group operates equity-settled share-based incentive schemes as follows:
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The PSP scheme is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Shares are awarded which vest for no consideration
after a three-year period subject to performance conditions. Each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions
based on total shareholder return (‘TSR’) and on earnings per share (‘EPS’) respectively.
The extent to which the TSR portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance over a three-year period
relative to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support Service Index. Full vesting will take place for a top 20%
ranking, 25% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median.
The extent to which the EPS portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the EPS of the Company increasing over a three-year period.
Full vesting will take place if the increase in EPS is at least 15% greater than the increase in RPI over the same period, 25% vesting if
the increase over RPI is 5% greater and no award if EPS falls below this 5% increase over RPI.
If performance conditions are met then shares will be issued up to six months after the vesting date. Participants who leave as a
result of a qualifying reason (generally, retirement or involuntary redundancy) will receive a pro-rata entitlement. The awards for other
participants who leave prior to vesting will lapse.
Company Share Option Plan (‘CSOP’)
The CSOP scheme is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Share options are awarded which vest after a
three-year period subject to performance conditions. The exercise price of the options is the market price of shares immediately prior
to the award. Each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions based on total shareholder return (‘TSR’) and on
earnings per share (‘EPS’) respectively. The performance conditions and arrangements for leavers are the same as for the PSP scheme.
Options can be exercised for a period of up to ten years after the date of the grant.
Sharesave schemes
Sharesave schemes have been established in most countries in which the Group has operations and are applicable to all employees.
Options are issued linked to savings contracts of up to £250 per month (or equivalent amounts overseas) for periods of three or five
years (two years in the USA) with a six month exercise period. Options are issued at a discount of up to 20% of the market price
immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply.
The Group’s charge for equity-settled share-based incentives for the year of £144,000 (2006: £nil) has been included in operating
expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
HRG Annual Report 2007 91 30 Share-based incentives continued
The following table illustrates the weighted average exercise price (‘WAEP’) of, and movements in, share options during the year:
PSP CSOP Sharesave
number of number number 
shares WAEP of options WAEP of options
Outstanding as at 1 April 2006 –––––
Granted during the year 1,731,215 96p 3,809,357 82p 4,879,250
Exercised –––––
Forfeited –––––
Outstanding as at 31 March 2007 1,731,215 96p 3,809,357 82p 4,879,250
Exercisable at 31 March 2007 –––––
Granted subject to TSR conditions 705,378 1,513,103 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 1,025,837 2,296,254 –
Granted without performance conditions – – 4,879,250
1,731,215 3,809,357 4,879,250
The range of exercise prices of outstanding share options was nil to 96p with a weighted average contractual life of 5.92 years.
The fair value of options granted in the year is estimated as at the date of grant using the following valuation models:
Valuation model
Grants subject to TSR conditions Monte Carlo
Grants subject to EPS conditions and Sharesave schemes Black-Scholes
Key assumptions used in valuing share options were:
Weighted average share price at grant date (pence) 99
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 27
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 74
Expected life (years) 2.25 – 6.5
Vesting period (years) 2 – 5
Expected and historic volatility (%) 20 – 24
Risk-free rate of return (%) 4.71 – 5.23
Expected dividend yield (%) 5
Expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes for a comparator group of similar
companies. This reflects the assumption that historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the outcome.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
92 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 31 Holding company and principal trading subsidiaries
Hogg Robinson Group plc (formerly Farnborough (Holdings) Limited) is a limited company domiciled in the United Kingdom and
incorporated in England & Wales. It is a holding company for the Group. Its registered office is:
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
United Kingdom
Registered number: 3946303
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of business services in one core activity: Business Travel.
The following were the principal subsidiaries of the Group as at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006, (except Spendvision Holdings
Limited and Spendvision Pty Limited which became subsidiaries in May 2006, Hogg Robinson s.r.o and Hogg Robinson Polska Sp.
z.o.o which were acquired in August 2006 and HRG Debtco Limited which was incorporated in May 2006). The companies were
wholly owned except where indicated below.
Name Country of incorporation Class of shares
Holding companies
HRG Debtco Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Spendvision Holdings Limited (51% held) England & Wales Ordinary
Business services providers
Hogg Robinson (Travel) Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic AB Sweden Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic AS Norway Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic OY Finland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson France SA France Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Italia SpA Italy Ordinary
ZAO BTI Russia Russia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Canada Inc Canada Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary
Spendvision Pty Ltd (51% held) Australia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Switzerland Limited Switzerland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Germany GmbH & Co KG Germany Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Hungary Limited Hungary Ordinary
Hogg Robinson USA LLC USA Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o Poland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson s.r.o Czech Republic Ordinary
32 Post balance sheet events
On 27 June 2007, the Group contracted to acquire the business of Weinberg Travel BVBA, the Group’s existing partner in Belgium.
The agreed consideration was €1,500,000.
HRG Annual Report 2007 93 Actual Adjustments Pro-forma
Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2007
H1 H2 Full year H1 H2 Full year H1 H2 Full year
unaudited unaudited *audited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating profit before
exceptional items 12,821 26,178 38,999 – – – 12,821 26,178 38,999
Exceptional pension items 4,473 1,525 5,998 (4,473) (1,525) (5,998) – – –
Adjustments to goodwill on
recognition of tax assets (539) (2,390) (2,929) – – – (539) (2,390) (2,929)
IPO costs – (4,016) (4,016) – 4,016 4,016 – – –
Rebranding costs – (2,672) (2,672) – 2,672 2,672 – – –
Operating profit 16,755 18,625 35,380 (4,473) 5,163 690 12,282 23,788 36,070
Net share of profit of associates
and joint ventures 231 173 404 – – – 231 173 404
Net finance costs (16,661) (6,244) (22,905) 11,201 785 11,986 (5,460) (5,459) (10,919)
Profit before tax 325 12,554 12,879 6,728 5,948 12,676 7,053 18,502 25,555
Income taxes (869) (2,218) (3,087) (682) (607) (1,289) (1,551) (2,825) (4,376)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations (544) 10,336 9,792 6,046 5,341 11,387 5,502 15,677 21,179
Minority interests (1,140) (86) (1,226) – – – (1,140) (86) (1,226)
Earnings from continuing
operations (1,684) 10,250 8,566 6,046 5,341 11,387 4,362 15,591 19,953
Profit from discontinued
operations 4,766 104 4,870 – – – 4,766 104 4,870
Profit for the year 3,082 10,354 13,436 6,046 5,341 11,387 9,128 15,695 24,823
*Extracted from audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
PRO-FORMA INCOME STATEMENT
94 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HRG Annual Report 2007 95
The facts and figures... We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of
Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These
Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared under
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2007.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Parent Company
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Parent
Company Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the
Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review,
the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
Parent Company Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and
fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the
Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007;
– the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
28 June 2007
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Parent Company
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of Parent Company Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
96 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary companies 3 132,141 62,039
132,141 62,039
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiary companies:
– due after more than one year 4 170,612 457
– due within one year 281 137
Other debtors 105 14
Cash 3 –
171,001 608
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (171) –
Net current assets 170,830 608
Total assets less current liabilities 302,971 62,647
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Financial liabilities – borrowings 6 – (89,637)
Amounts due to subsidiary companies (2,600) –
(2,600) (89,637)
Net assets/(liabilities) 300,371 (26,990)
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 7 3,056 37
Share warrants 7 – 5,290
Share premium 8 171,289 3,604
Other reserves 8 144 –
Retained earnings 8 125,882 (35,921)
Equity shareholders’ funds/(deficit) 9 300,371 (26,990)
The notes on pages 98 to 103 are an integral part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Parent Company Financial Statements on pages 97 to 103 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 June 2007 and
were signed on its behalf by:
D J C Radcliffe, Director J F W Kennerley, Director
Registered number in England: 3946303
Cash flow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1, the Company’s cash flow statement has not been separately presented in these
Parent Company Financial Statements.
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2007
HRG Annual Report 2007 97 Basis of accounting
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985, and conform with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards (‘UK GAAP’). The Directors
consider that the accounting policies set out below are suitable,
have been consistently applied and are supported by reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates.
Changes in accounting policies
The Company has adopted FRS 20, Accounting for Share-based
Payment, FRS 23, The effects of changes in foreign exchange
contracts and FRS 26, Financial Instruments – Measurement, in
these Parent Company Financial Statements. The adoption of
these standards represents changes in accounting policies.
There is no effect on the prior year on the adoption of FRS 20.
There is no impact on current or prior year figures on the
adoption of FRS 23 and FRS 26.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account on
an accruals basis.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less any
provision for impairment in value.
Financial Instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows.
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as
current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right
to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after
the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs are recognised as an
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting
all of its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Taxation and deferred taxation
Any charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the
period and takes into account deferred taxation. Full provision is
made where required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation, for deferred
taxation on all timing differences, which have arisen but have not
reversed at the balance sheet date.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Mandatorily redeemable
Preference shares are classified as liabilities. Incremental costs
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are
shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Preference shares
Preference shares have been classified as financial liabilities,
rather than as equity interests, because they constitute
contractual obligations to deliver cash to a third party.
Share-based Incentives
The Company operates several equity-settled share-based
incentive schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards is
calculated at grant date and is recognised as an expense over
the vesting period. For awards with vesting conditions based on
market conditions (particularly, those based on total shareholder
return compared with external benchmarks), the likelihood of
vesting is assessed at the date of grant and is not subsequently
amended in arriving at the expense for each year in the vesting
period. All other awards are re-assessed at each balance sheet
date, with the expense charged to the Profit and Loss Account
including the impact of changes of previous estimates of the
likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the year gives rise to a
corresponding credit to equity.
Management judgement
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies,
management has made a number of judgements, none of which
are considered to have a significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the Parent Company Financial Statements.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 – CONTINUED
98 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures...
1 Accounting policies 2 Profit/(loss) for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the
year. Hogg Robinson Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 of £161,803,000 (2006: loss of £8,135,000).
Audit fees for the Company are borne by a subsidiary of this Company, Hogg Robinson Limited.
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Services provided to comply with legislation
Charged to operating costs 2,575 –
Charged to equity 4,339 –
6,914 –
Other services provided to comply with legislation include services in respect of the IPO at a cost of £6,629,000 (2006: £nil), half year
review fees of £272,000 (2006: £nil) and other fees of £13,000 (2006: £nil).
3 Investments
Subsidiary
Companies
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2006 62,039
Additions 132,141
Disposals (62,039)
At 31 March 2007 132,141
On 31 May 2006, as part of the refinancing ahead of the IPO, the Company formed a new subsidiary, HRG Debtco Limited, with
nominal equity.
On 25 August 2006 the Company sold its investment in Farnborough Limited to HRG Debtco Limited. The consideration was
£200,000,000 plus the issue of new shares by HRG Debtco Limited to the Company with a nominal value of £10,000,000 and share
premium of £17,952,000. This resulted in a profit on disposal in the Company of £165,912,000. The £200,000,000 element of
consideration was settled by an intercompany loan, some of which has since been repaid. 
On 12 October 2006, the Company increased its investment in HRG Debtco Limited by £104,189,000, settled by cash. 
The Directors consider that the fair value of investments is not less than their carrying value.
The market capitalisation of the Group is given in the Group financial records. A list of subsidiaries is provided in note 31 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 93.
HRG Annual Report 2007 99 4 Amounts due from subsidiary companies: due after more than one year
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 170,148 –
Amount due from another subsidiary company 464 457
170,612 457
The intercompany receivable with HRG Debtco Limited arose as a result of refinancing during the year ahead of the IPO.
Amounts due from subsidiary companies after more than one year are unsecured and interest is charged. There is no fixed date of
repayment.
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Other payables 171 –
171 –
6 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Preference shares
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Nominal value – 54,087
Accumulated premium – 35,550
– 89,637
At 31 March 2006 the Company had in issue 54,086,926 cumulative Preference shares of £1 each. These were required to be
redeemed in January 2015 or earlier, provided that the Company’s subsidiary, Farnborough Limited, had first redeemed any loan
notes outstanding. The Preference shares were redeemed in October 2006 as part of the IPO. Upon redemption the Company
repaid the nominal amount plus a redemption premium equal to 10% compounded on the nominal amount and premium.
The redemption premium was included in the valuation of the debt.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
100 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 7 Share Capital and Reserves
Share capital authorised
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
number number
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 –
‘A’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 365,000
‘B’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 2,960,946
‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares of 1p each – 730,000
513,808,171 4,055,946
Share capital issued, called up and fully paid
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each 3,056 –
‘A’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 4
‘B’ Ordinary shares of 1p each – 26
‘B’ Redeemable Ordinary shares of 1p each – 7
3,056 37
Details of the Global offer and admission to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock
Exchange are provided in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81.
Share warrants
Entitlement
Book to Ordinary
value shares
£’000 number
At 1 April 2006 5,290 404,105
Issue of additional warrants 88 1,804
Exercise of warrants (5,378) (405,909)
At 31 March 2007 ––
Warrants were in issue at 31 March 2006 which allowed holders to subscribe for 405,909 ‘B’ Ordinary shares at 1p each at par when a
subscription event took place, which occurred in October 2006.
HRG Annual Report 2007 101 8 Reserves
Share Profit Share-based
premium and loss incentives
account reserve reserve Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2005 3,604 (27,786) – (24,182)
Loss for the year – (8,135) – (8,135)
At 1 April 2006 3,604 (35,921) – (32,317)
Profit for the year – 161,803 – 161,803
Rights issue of Ordinary shares (1,014) – – (1,014)
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares:
Warrant holders 5,378 – – 5,378
IPO 163,163 – – 163,163
Non-Executive Directors 158 – – 158
Share-based incentives – – 144 144
At 31 March 2007 171,289 125,882 144 297,315
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares on IPO is net of £14,837,000 share issue and listing costs.
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Years ended 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) for the year 161,803 (8,135)
Redemption of share capital (37) –
Issue of share capital 3,056 –
Rights issue of Ordinary shares (1,014) –
Issue of additional warrants 88 5,290
Exercise of share warrants (5,378) –
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares (note 8) 168,699 –
Share-based incentives 144 –
Net increase/(decrease) to shareholders’ funds/(deficit) 327,361 (2,845)
Shareholders’ deficit at 1 April (26,990) (24,145)
Shareholders’ funds/(deficit) at 31 March 300,371 (26,990)
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
102 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... 10 Employees
The Company has no employees.
Disclosure of the Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 46 of the Annual Report.
11 Related parties
The Directors of Hogg Robinson Group plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year. Exemption has been
taken under FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions for the parent company.
HRG Annual Report 2007 103 Timetable
The major timetable dates are as follows:
Ex-dividend date for 2006/07 final dividend 29 August 2007
Record date for 2006/07 final dividend 31 August 2007
2007 Annual General Meeting 4 September 2007
Payment of 2006/07 final dividend 1 October 2007
Half yearly report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2007 Mid November 2007
Payment date for the 2007/08 interim dividend Mid December 2007
Preliminary announcement of 2007/08 results End May 2008
2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements posted to shareholders Mid June 2008
2008 Annual General Meeting Late July 2008
Payment date for 2007/08 final dividend Late July 2008
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6ZL
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Lloyds TSB Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0870 600 3970
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0870 600 3950
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Interim Reports and other information
about the Company are available on this site.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
104 HRG Annual Report 2007
The facts and figures... Contents
1 Highlights of 2007
2 Hogg Robinson Group...
how and where we operate
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
9 Hogg Robinson Group...
delivering value
24 Financial Review
32 Directors and Executive 
Management Team
34 Company Information
35 Directors’ Report
39 Corporate Governance
42 Remuneration Report
47 Consolidated Financial Statements
48 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
49 Independent Auditors’ Report
50 Consolidated Income Statement
51 Consolidated Balance Sheet
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
54 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
94 Pro-forma Income Statement
95 Parent Company Financial Statements
96 Independent Auditors’ Report
97 Company Balance Sheet
98 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
104 Shareholder Information
OUR BUSINESS
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) is an award winning
international corporate services company providing 
a range of services which add demonstrable value to 
our clients’ corporate travel and related expenditure.
Totally committed to a value offering, our extensive 
and comprehensive portfolio includes: Corporate Travel
Management, Expense Management, Consulting, 
Events & Meetings Management, and Sports. 
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk.  
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
