 HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk.  
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC Contents
1 Highlights of 2008
2 Hogg Robinson Group
Company overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
11 Financial Review
15 Hogg Robinson Group...
delivering value
22 Directors and Executive 
Management Team
24 Company Information
25 Directors’ Report
29 Corporate Governance
32 Remuneration Report
37 Consolidated Financial Statements
38 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
39 Independent Auditors’ Report
40 Consolidated Income Statement
41 Consolidated Balance Sheet
42 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
43 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
89 Parent Company Financial Statements
90 Independent Auditors’ Report
91 Company Balance Sheet
92 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
97 Shareholder Information
OUR BUSINESS
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) is the international
corporate travel services company providing a range 
of services which add demonstrable value to our 
clients’ corporate travel and related expenditure.
Totally committed to a value offering, our 
extensive and comprehensive portfolio includes: 
Corporate Travel Management, Consulting, 
Events & Meetings Management, Sports and
Spendvision/Expense Management. 
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO
Timetable
The major timetable dates are as follows:
Ex-dividend date for 2007/08 final dividend 2 July 2008
Record date for 2007/08 final dividend 4 July 2008
2008 Annual General Meeting 21 July 2008
Latest date for scrip elections 22 July 2008
Payment of 2007/08 final dividend 1 August 2008
Half yearly report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2008 November 2008
Payment date for the 2008/09 interim dividend December 2008
Preliminary announcement of 2008/09 results June 2009
2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements posted to shareholders June 2009
2009 Annual General Meeting July 2009
Payment date for 2008/09 final dividend August 2009
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6ZL
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0870 600 3970
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0870 600 3950
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Interim Reports and other information
about the Company are available on this site.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
HRG Annual Report 2008 97 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2008
Financial highlights
•
Revenue growth of 6.7% with organic growth of 2.0%
•
EBITA
(1)
of £40.3m in line with recent guidance, broadly unchanged from
prior year after adjusting for the one-off prior year benefit of £3.4m from
the FIFA World Cup
TM
•
Profit before tax £25.2m and EPS (basic) from continuing operations 5.5p
•
Continuing strong free cash flow
(2)
of £16.3m
•
Final dividend unchanged at 2.8p per share; brings full year to 
4.0p per share; payout ratio 73% of EPS
Business highlights
•
Net new business wins well ahead of the prior year
•
Client retention rate remains above 90%
•
Acquisitions performed well
•
Mixed performance in Europe; restructuring programme completed:
– Resilient performance from managed travel business
– Some softening in demand in Events and unmanaged 
(SME) business in fourth quarter
•
Transitional year in North America with investment for the future
•
Good performance in Asia Pacific
•
Spendvision more than doubled revenue to £6.1m; ownership 
interest increased to 58%
(1) Earnings Before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation from continuing operations before exceptional items
and including HRG’s after tax share of results of associates and joint ventures.
(2) A summary of free cash flow is shown in the Financial Review on page 14.
HRG Annual Report 2008 1
0
10
20
30
40
50
EBITA
£m
04 05 06 07 08
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
REVENUE
£m
04 05 06 07 08 International Corporate Travel Services
2 HRG Annual Report 2008
Consulting
HRG Consulting is involved in the creation
and enhancement of three key areas:
Supplier programmes, Process and Analysis. 
It is at the forefront of providing an 
extensive range of professional services in
the travel and procurement field, including
strategic advice, outsourcing, benchmarking
and policy review, particularly in the area 
of supplier programme management. Its
extensive experience, knowledge and 
state of the art systems are commissioned 
by clients to provide expert high quality
support on a project fee basis.
Events & Meetings Management
Dedicated specialists worldwide offer a
wealth of knowledge and expertise in
planning, organising and implementing 
a wide range of events and meetings. HRG
Events & Meetings Management (EMM)
provides a seamless experience that will 
not only save time and money, but leave 
a lasting impression of a truly memorable
and successful occasion.
HRG EMM offers both strategic and tactical
events and meetings management. At a
strategic level, it helps clients understand 
and control their meetings expenditure
which can prove as large as spend on regular
corporate travel. At a tactical level, it plans
and implements every aspect of meetings
and events from travel logistics to designing
stage sets and hiring celebrity speakers.
Sports
Sports refers to the handling of bookings 
for groups, most of which are on behalf 
of sports related clients, for the purposes 
of participating in or attending major
professional or amateur sporting events
around the world.
HRG has a long established reputation 
in delivering expert travel management
solutions in the field of high performance
sports. It handles every aspect of travel 
and accommodation requirements for a
wide range of high profile sporting clubs,
associations and federations, dealing with
players, crews and co-workers, as well as
supporters and affiliate organisations.
Corporate Travel Management
A core service since 1945, Corporate Travel Management is probably the best known of HRG’s business activities and it remains the
heartbeat of the company. Its worldwide network combines local expertise and specialist knowledge to deliver an all round value
offering and tailored solution for its clients. 
Whether clients are focusing on personal service, online booking tools, keeping track of their travellers’ whereabouts, travel cost
savings or a totally outsourced travel management function, HRG offers practical advice and innovative solutions tailored to their
needs. Capabilities stretch far beyond the classic travel management role and are designed to meet the needs of both the
corporate decision-makers and their travellers. 
As well as handling both simple and more complex bookings through online or people based channels, HRG offers consulting
services to assist with programme management decisions and negotiation support. Its global traveller assistance service, which
operates 24 hours a day 365 days per year, provides peace of mind wherever in the world it may be required.
The Company
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) is an international corporate travel services company. A regionally structured
organisation, HRG operates mainly in five business service activities related to the logistics and cost control of
corporate travel which, alongside salaries and IT, are often in the top three of an organisation’s costs. 
Paramount to its success is a client-focused approach: its people, technology solutions, processes and procedures
revolve around client needs and expectations and it uses its substantial purchasing influence, processing and analytical
power to drive costs down for clients while maximising service and security for them and their travellers. HRG aligns
global systems and reach with detailed local knowledge in over 100 markets worldwide and combines pioneering,
integrated proprietary technology with strong client relationships and personnel development.
The Advantage
One of the problems facing corporations in managing their travel budgets is that support services are
fragmented. HRG fills that gap by being one of a small number of companies capable of operating their range
of value added services across international boundaries. The depth and breadth of these services offer multi-
national and national clients a much fuller understanding of what they spend on travel and how to control it.
This allows HRG to provide full strategic support for clients in areas such as risk management and understanding
travel as a true business investment instead of simply as a cost to be minimised. 
HRG is about Choice: clients are offered a range of innovative solutions and services tailored to their needs and
employees are provided with the opportunities to develop their skills, take on new challenges and broaden their
horizons through a range of initiatives and training.
Hogg Robinson Group Spendvision/Expense Management
HRG Annual Report 2008 3
In today’s cost conscious business environment, expense management is becoming an area of increasing importance
for clients. Through HRG’s majority ownership of Spendvision, one of the world’s leading expense management
automation companies, it provides sophisticated, multi-language, multi-currency, online expense management and
data consolidation solutions. 
As an expert in the outsourcing and consultancy arenas, HRG offers a unique 'one-stop shop' for expense management
by helping clients and their partners to manage employee controlled expenditure transactions whether using credit
cards, personal cash claims, purchasing cards or other mediums such as mobile phones and fuel cards.
Key growth drivers 
Organic growth
Significant new national and multi-national
business wins and extensions to existing
contracts in North America, Europe and Asia
Pacific (AsPac).
Global expansion
The HRG worldwide network now extends 
to more than 100 countries. Since April 2007,
ten additional countries on the African
continent have joined HRG, reinforcing its
presence in that region.
Acquisition strategy
HRG is an acquisitive company and will continue
to invest in new opportunities subject to the
needs of the business. During 2007, HRG
acquired Weinberg Travel BVBA (October), 
the existing HRG partner in Belgium, further
strengthening its platform in Europe, and
Executive Travel Associates based in
Washington, USA (February).
HRG owned Entities Members of the HRG worldwide network
Company overview I am pleased to present results for our first
full year since the Group was re-listed on
the London Stock Exchange. It has been 
a difficult year for many companies but,
despite the short-term challenges, we have
come through with a good business that is
well positioned for the longer term.
Our strategy remains clearly focused on
managed travel for corporate clients and 
I am delighted to report that, in addition to
continuing high levels of client retention,
we also added some significant new clients
during the year. We also continue to have a
strong pipeline of prospects for the future.
We are working with our existing clients to
provide a range of services which add value
to their travel and related expenditure,
and deliver improved operational
efficiencies and cost savings through the
use of proprietary technology.
Towards the end of the financial year we
recognised some softening of demand in
our Events & Meetings Management (EMM)
activities and unmanaged (SME) clients,
particularly in Europe. These activities only
account for around 20-30% of revenues but
are much more susceptible to any general
economic slowdown. We identified the
downturn too slowly and are disappointed
that we had to lower expectations during
March. We have now rebalanced to the
right cost levels, whilst remaining ready to
take advantage of any improvement in
market conditions.
Managed travel has historically been more
resilient than unmanaged travel in times 
of economic uncertainty. However, no
business can be immune to the fallout
from the continuing crisis of confidence
in financial markets. Certainly, we began
to see some changes in the final quarter
of the financial year and some of our
managed clients, particularly those in
financial services, have sought to reduce
their overall travel expenditure. However,
as we have shown in the past, we can
help clients reduce their travel budgets
and at the same time protect our own
financials through the use of a wide range
of services and products designed to
reduce costs for our clients. 
Our Spendvision/Expense Management
business doubled in size during the year,
albeit from a small base, and remains an
exciting higher-growth part of our portfolio
in the longer term.
Financial highlights
Group revenue for the year increased by
6.7% to £332m while reported basic
earnings per share increased by 28% to
5.5p. Comparisons with prior-year earnings
are complicated by the inclusion of nearly
six months of pre-IPO activity when the
level of interest costs and the number of
shares outstanding were significantly
different. We also enjoyed a one-off benefit
of £3.4m from the FIFA World Cup™ in the
prior year. Looking at our primary measure
of performance during the year, EBITA, our
performance was very close to the prior
year after adjusting for the FIFA World Cup™.
The year end net debt was £110m, which
was essentially unchanged from the prior
year after allowing for an increase of £6m
due to movements in exchange rates. 
The Group’s total pension deficits reduced
by £12m to £48m before tax. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 2.8p, which will be payable
on 1 August 2008 to Shareholders on the
register as at 4 July 2008. This brings the
full-year dividend to 4.0p per share which
represents 73% of the reported earnings
per share and means that the full-year
dividend is covered 1.4 times by earnings.
The payout is slightly higher than the
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 HRG Annual Report 2008 50-65% indicated in our dividend policy
at the time of the IPO. A scrip dividend
alternative will be offered and the 
relevant documents are being posted 
to Shareholders during June.
Shareholders will be pleased to note that
the final dividend payment has been
bought forward by two months compared
to last year.
Looking ahead, we remain committed 
to at least maintaining the current full-year
dividend with the intention of adopting 
a progressive dividend policy as improved
earnings bring the payout back to the 
50-65% range indicated at the time of 
the IPO.
People
I am delighted to welcome Julian
Steadman who joined the Board as Group
Finance Director from Christian Salvesen,
replacing John Kennerley in December
2007. Julian has quickly settled into the
role and is already making a significant
and valuable contribution to the business.
On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would
like to thank John for his sterling
contribution during his time at HRG.
Our people continue to be our greatest
asset and, in a business which relies on
delivering excellent service, it is essential
that we recruit and retain excellent talent.
In a year of business growth and
repositioning, our staff have adapted 
well and I would like to thank all of them –
around the world – for their continued 
hard work, enthusiasm, loyalty and
professionalism. Their dedication and
commitment to providing world class
service to our clients is an integral part 
of our offer and is reflected in the
favourable feedback that we receive
regularly from our clients. 
Outlook
Market conditions remain challenging 
and economic uncertainties exist. 
However, we enter the new financial year
with a strong pipeline of new prospects
and expect to see the benefit from new
clients added last year together with our
continuing focus on reducing costs
flowing through to earnings. We remain
cautious about our EMM and SME activities
in the short term. Overall, supported 
by the proven resilience of our managed
travel business, we expect to deliver
growth this year.
John Coombe
Chairman
3 June 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 5 Overview
HRG provides services linked to corporate
travel and its related expenses. Its principal
target market comprises multinational
companies which benefit from having these
expenditures independently managed. 
HRG owns operations in 25 countries with
contracted partners operating under the
HRG brand in a further 81 countries. 
The financial year ended 31 March 2008
will probably best be remembered for the
substantial increase in the cost of oil and
the crisis in the financial markets. Despite
these challenging conditions, we were able
to deliver a creditable performance from
our managed business, particularly when
measured against a strong prior year that
included a one-off pre-tax benefit of £3.4m
from the FIFA World Cup™. Unfortunately,
we failed to see a downturn in EMM and
unmanaged SME quickly enough to take
remedial action and, regrettably, this
resulted in our issuing a cautionary trading
statement during March.
We were pleased to show continued
organic revenue growth whilst maintaining
our high level of client retention. We
completed the consolidation of our North
American acquisitions and continue to
look at how we can streamline these
operations further. During the year we
restructured the European operations away
from the traditional country orientation in
order to provide a seamless international
service to our multinational clients and also
to lower our cost base for the future. 
Our new structure will drive closer
alignment of our service offerings within
Corporate Travel Services, which includes
Corporate Travel Management, Consulting,
EMM and Sports. Spendvision, our expense
management business, doubled in scale
during the year and continues to represent
an exciting growth opportunity. 
In October 2007, we completed the
acquisition of the business of Weinberg
Travel BVBA, HRG’s existing network partner
in Belgium, which has already been fully
integrated into our European operations.
Last year’s acquisitions in the USA, the
Czech Republic and Poland all performed
well during the year. We also increased our
ownership in Spendvision to 58% during
the year. Further small acquisitions will be
considered, particularly in markets which
handle the consolidation of travel
programmes and where inclusion in the
HRG global network will enhance value.
Looking at the financial performance,
revenue increased by 6.7% to £332.2m.
EBITA was down £3.8m to £40.3m, which is
close to the prior year performance after
adjusting for the one-off benefit of the FIFA
World Cup™ in the prior-year. 
In the past we have reported EBITA
margin. Going forward, we will be
concentrating on operating profit 
margin, which is a measure that is more
commonly used. The underlying
operating profit margin has reduced from
12.5% to 10.5% as a result of the World
Cup impact, margin pressure in Germany
and the Nordic region, coupled with the
costs of investment in new client start-ups
and infrastructure improvement in 
North America.
Exceptional items produced a net gain
of £1.2m. We are pleased to have
concluded our arbitration with Kuoni
Reisen Holding AG (Kuoni) which
produced a pre-tax exceptional gain of
£4.4m, net of expenses. This has however
been largely offset by two exceptional
costs. The first is a £2.4m charge for
estimated unrecoverable cost associated
with a long-standing contract in
North America following a review by
our new Group Finance Director.
The second is a technical accounting
item, namely a £0.8m adjustment to
goodwill associated with recognition
of German deferred tax assets on
acquisitions in earlier years. 
People
HRG has a unique culture, with an enviable
level of employee loyalty and commitment.
Our people make the difference and 
I would like to thank them sincerely for 
their dedication and enthusiasm during a
very challenging year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
6 HRG Annual Report 2008 The year saw a number of management
changes which were a necessary part of
our re-shaping of the business.
Tragically, we had the premature death 
of our senior management colleague Reto
Bacher, who was President of EMM and
Sports. His enormous presence and wise
counsel will be sadly missed. 
Roger Westwood, Overseas Investments
Director, retired from the Executive Board
on 31 March 2008 and Mike Platt, Group
Industry Affairs Director, will retire from 
the Executive Board on 30 June 2008. Both
Roger and Mike have made a significant
contribution to HRG over many years and
we thank them sincerely for their support
and contribution. 
These roles have been incorporated within
the existing team.
Client activity
The net new business wins for the year
were well ahead of the prior year and we
enter the year with a pipeline of new
prospects that is at least as strong as last
year. We are pleased with our new signings,
which include a number of clients yet 
to start trading. New clients that we
welcomed to HRG and who are yet to
trade for a full year include Ericsson, 
IMG, Interpublic, Lloyds TSB, Ministry of
Defence/Foreign & Commonwealth Office
(MOD/FCO), Pepsico, Technip, TeliaSonera
and Weatherford. At the same time, the
retention rate for existing clients remained
above 90%. These figures provide tangible
evidence that clients see the real value 
that HRG is providing in an increasingly
competitive market. On the new client
front, the new financial year has 
started well.
The trend to outsource travel management
services is well established, although 
the client tender process is becoming
longer. It is common for a global bid to
take 12 to 18 months from initial
submission to implementation.
Clients seek to implement global travel
management programmes in different
ways, with early adopters generally
preferring to set global travel policies
centrally and implement from a single
location. More recently we have seen
many clients seeking to set policies
centrally or regionally and then implement
on a regional and even local country
basis. HRG’s flexible approach to
delivering bespoke solutions and a strong
geographic footprint is proving to be a
key driver in winning new business.
Awards
Our high levels of client service have
continued to be recognised through
industry awards including:
• Business Travel Agency of the Year to
HRG Belgium (Travel Magazine’s 2007
Travel Awards);
• Best Business Travel Management
Company (Turnover above £50m) to HRG
UK (Buying Business Travel Awards 2008).
Technology
Travel management is a data-rich
business and technology is critical to
success. Within our industry, technology
serves our clients in a wide variety of
disciplines from accessing information on
travel routes and alternative pricing to
self-booking tools and passenger tracking.
For HRG, it enables our staff to access
information from several sources
simultaneously, thereby allowing us to
deliver a swift and cost-effective service
to our clients around the world on a
24x7 basis. Our decision to develop our
own technology has proved to be a real
unique selling point since it provides us
with the ability to offer products and
solutions that address our clients’ needs
rather than fitting our clients’ requirements
to a template.
We made some significant advances
in technology during the year.
The deployment of our stand-alone,
independent technology platform,
HRG Universal Super Platform™ (USP),
began in Europe and North America. As the
name suggests, this technology provides
us with a base from which to link, for
HRG Annual Report 2008 7 example, our front-end booking process
to air, hotel and car suppliers and their
services. During the year, successful pilot
schemes, running our own electronic HRG
Point of Sale™ (HRG POS) systems off the
USP , were conducted in London and New
York. Using this technology we are now able
to offer more flexibility to our clients,
delivering travel products and services that
are tailored to their specific needs. This
system also helps us work more effectively
with our suppliers, providing HRG with
access to powerful new information. For
example, we are now able to offer clients
online check-in facilities directly through our
system as well as specific menu pricing and
seat assignments from suppliers to
customers. This platform could also enable us
to hold inventory for our clients in the future.
Operating review
The consolidated results are as follows:
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £332.2m 311.4m +6.7%
Operating profit £36.0m £35.4m +£0.6m
Underlying 
operating profit 
(1)
£34.8m £39.0m -£4.2m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
10.5% 12.5% -2.0%
Year end capital 
employed
(2)
£188.0m £179.6m +£8.4m
Return on capital 
employed
(2)
18.6% 21.9% -3.3%
(1)
before exceptional items
(2) 
includes goodwill
Europe
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £247.7m £241.0m +2.8%
Operating profit £36.2m £33.7m +£2.5m
Underlying 
operating 
profit 
(1)
£32.6m £36.6m -£4.0m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
13.2% 15.2% -2.0%
(1)
before exceptional items
Overall our European performance during
the year was mixed. Reported revenue was
up by 2.8%, essentially unchanged after
allowing for the small positive impact of
acquisitions and changes in exchange
rates. Underlying operating profit was
down by £4.0m, but is measured against 
a prior year that included a one-off benefit
from the FIFA World Cup™. Lower profits
from German and the Nordic SME clients
were offset by strong performances in 
the UK and Switzerland and underscore
the resilient nature of our managed 
client business. 
As the credit squeeze dented client
confidence towards the end of the year,
we did experience some softening of
demand in our EMM and unmanaged SME
activities, particularly in the Nordic region
and Germany, and this had an effect on
the full-year result. Although we initially
reacted too slowly to these changes, we
have now rebalanced to the right level. 
We have also integrated EMM activities
with those of managed travel, thereby
providing coordinated contact with our
managed client base. However, we remain
well placed to take advantage of any
increased demand as economic 
conditions improve.
Our European restructuring programme,
which is designed to improve our service 
to multinational clients, was completed
during the year at a total cost of £1.9m.
Savings of £3.3m were delivered in the year.
An important part of this programme was
the re-positioning of our operations in
Germany, one of the three largest
managed travel markets in Europe, where
we have now appointed a new managing
director to drive growth. We also enhanced
our service offering through investment in
a new integrated telephony system to link
our major European call centres in
Glasgow, Berlin and Stockholm, and also
our low-cost service centre in Budapest.
The new system has already improved call
management by optimising capacity, skill
set and language across country
boundaries.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED
8 HRG Annual Report 2008 The recent acquisitions in the Czech
Republic, Poland and Belgium all
performed as expected during the year
and we also added new partners in
Kosovo, Luxembourg and Israel to the
HRG worldwide network. 
In the UK, the implementation of our
contract with the MOD/FCO began last
December on a phased basis. As with most
large new contracts, start-up costs
impacted profitability in the early months
and we look forward to the full benefit
accruing in the future.
In Spring 2008, our three Manchester
offices were consolidated into one new
state-of-the-art centre in the heart of
Manchester’s business district.
North America
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £65.3m £56.3m +16.0%
Operating 
(loss)/profit £(1.3)m £1.8m -£3.1m
Underlying 
operating profit 
(1)
£1.1m £2.5m -£1.4m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
1.7% 4.4% -2.7%
(1)
before exceptional items
This was a challenging year for our North
American operations as we re-positioned
the business for the future. The reported
revenue increase of 16.0% includes 5.4% 
of organic growth together with the full
year impact of Executive Travel Associates
(ETA) and a minimal amount from changes
in exchange rates.
Implementation costs for new clients,
together with continued investment in
capacity and infrastructure contributed to
the decline in underlying operating profit
for the period. There is significant pressure
on margins in this very competitive market
and we will continue to improve the
efficiency of our service delivery. To that
end, work on amalgamating our businesses
in the USA and Canada was completed
early in the year and we are continuing to
drive additional productivity now that the
new structure is more settled. 
We opened a new state-of-the-art service
centre in Charlotte during the year which
again included the launch of a new
telephony system. In addition to providing
capacity for future growth, this will now
enable us to provide a global ‘follow the
sun’ service to our clients by linking our
offices in Singapore, London and Halifax,
Canada. An additional benefit is that we
are able to track clients wherever they are
in the world. In addition we expanded our
operations in Halifax and New York to
handle new business.
ETA, which was acquired in February 2007,
also performed well and contributed an
additional £1.9m of operating profit during
the year.
Following a review by our new Group
Finance Director, we identified some
potentially unrecoverable costs associated
with a long-standing contract and have
recognised an exceptional charge of
£2.4m. We have made changes to our
financial procedures to improve the
control of this contract.
We continued to build brand awareness 
in North America and this undoubtedly
contributed to the fact that we are now
included on invitations to tender for almost
all major contracts in the region. As a result,
we have yet to see the full benefit from
several new clients or from regional
extensions of existing clients that were
achieved during the year. We built a
healthy pipeline of new business during
the year and that momentum has
continued. I am pleased to report that the
new financial year has started well. 
Asia Pacific
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £19.1m £14.1m +35.8%
Operating 
profit/(loss) £1.1m £(0.1)m +£1.2m
Underlying 
operating profit
(1)
£1.1m – +£1.1m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin
(1)
5.8% – +5.8%
(1)
before exceptional items
HRG Annual Report 2007 9 10 HRG Annual Report 2008
The region performed strongly throughout
the year and delivered healthy revenue
growth of 35.8%, equivalent to organic
growth of 27.7% after adjusting for
changes in exchange rates. Underlying
operating profit increased by £1.1m due
to a strong performance in Australia.
Operating profit includes Australia and
Singapore, but excludes the joint ventures
in Hong Kong and China.
In Australia we were successful in
winning state and federal government
business including signing contracts with
the Queensland Government and the
Department of Water and Environment.
We are pleased to announce that we
have commenced a pilot phase with
Queensland Government on our fully
integrated travel and expense
management system. This system enables
a client to handle the process from travel
authoristation to expense reclaim through
a single application environment. Using
our USP this modular delivery will give
clients the choice of individual or a full
suite of products. We also opened a new
service centre in Canberra to manage
travel for the Australian members of
Parliament and the federal government.
In Hong Kong we relocated to new offices
at the harbour to provide a better working
environment for our staff. This move has
already improved our ability to recruit staff
in a competitive market.
Spendvision
HRG’s Spendvision/Expense Management
business continued to grow rapidly during
the year and more than doubled its
revenue to £6.1m, with operating profit
improving from breakeven to £0.7m. These
results are part of the geographic analysis
above. Spendvision’s business includes a
number of clients who are not HRG travel
clients and remains an exciting long-term
opportunity for the Group. During the year
we increased our ownership interest by 
7% to 58%.
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
3 June 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED HRG Annual Report 2008 11
Revenue
Revenue increased by 6.7% to £332m
(2007: £311m) comprised of 2.0% from
organic growth, 2.9% from acquisitions
and 1.8% from changes in exchange rates.
Looking at organic growth, Europe was
essentially unchanged, North America
was up 5.4% and Asia Pacific was 
up 27.7%.
EBITA
To date, the Group has reported EBITA 
(i.e. earnings before interest, taxes and
amortisation, before any exceptional
items and including HRG’s share of
associates and joint ventures) as one of its
primary performance measures. EBITA for
the year decreased by £3.8m, from
£44.1m to £40.3m. The prior year includes
a contribution of £3.4m from the FIFA
World Cup™ which only occurs every four
years. The current year includes £1.9m of
restructuring costs, including the costs
associated with replacing the Group
Finance Director, which produced £3.3m
in savings during the year. Acquisitions
contributed an additional £2.7m during
the year. The impact of favourable
movements in exchange rates was not
material. Elsewhere, there were lower
profits in Germany, the Nordic region
and North America with higher profits
in Asia Pacific.
Depreciation and amortisation
During the year, the depreciation charge
remained unchanged at £4.4m, with
amortisation increasing by £0.7m to £5.4m.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items for the year produced 
a net benefit of £1.2m, compared against
a net cost of £3.6m in the prior year. 
The current year includes £4.4m from the
settlement of an arbitration with Kuoni
Reisen Holding AG, partially offset by a
£2.4m charge for estimated unrecoverable
costs associated with management of 
a long-standing contract in North
America and £0.8m in respect of an
adjustment to goodwill associated with
recognition of German deferred tax assets
on acquisitions in earlier years. This latter
item is essentially offset by a deferred tax
credit and therefore has a minimal impact
on net earnings for the year.
The prior year included £9.6m of
exceptional costs including expenditure
related to the IPO (£4.0m), an adjustment
to goodwill for German deferred tax
assets (£2.9m) and re-branding (£2.7m).
These costs were partially offset by
exceptional pension credits of £6.0m
related to the settlement of liabilities to
deferred pensioners in the UK (£5.0m) and
Norway (£1.0m).
Net finance costs
Net finance costs were more than halved
from £22.9m to £10.9m due to the change
in capital structure following the IPO in
October 2006. Of this, the net finance costs
relating to pension accounting under
IAS19 were £0.4m for the year (2007:
£2.0m). Net finance costs are covered 
3.3 times by reported operating profit.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Overview
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £332.2m £311.4m +6.7%
Underlying earnings from continuing operations*
– EBITA £40.3m £44.1m -£3.8m
– Profit before tax £24.0m £16.5m +£7.5m
Reported earnings from continuing operations
– Profit before tax £25.2m £12.9m +£12.3m
– Earnings per share (p) 5.5p 4.3p +27.9%
Return on capital employed 18.6% 21.9% -3.3%
Free cash flow £16.3m £16.1m +£0.2m
Net debt £110.4m £104.4m +£6.0m
* before exceptional items FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED
Profit before tax
Underlying profit on continuing
operations before tax and exceptional
items increased by £7.5m, from £16.5m 
to £24.0m. The reported profit before tax
increased by £12.3m from £12.9m to
£25.2m.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year represents an
overall tax rate of 31% of the reported
profit before tax, compared to an overall
rate of 24% in the prior year. These rates
reflect the tax on exceptional items
together with a number of non-recurring
tax items – for the current year, the
impact on deferred tax balances of lower
future tax rates in UK and Germany; for
the prior year, the non-deductible
premium paid on preference share
redemption and the benefit from
deferred tax recognition following the
IPO. Excluding these items, the normal
tax rate for the current year was 33%
compared to 36% in the prior year.
We anticipate a tax rate of around 30%
in the future.
Discontinued operations
The profits from discontinued operations
of £4.9m in the prior year were
predominantly due to the receipt of
additional contingent disposal proceeds
in respect of the sale of Benefits and
Consulting Services. 
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share for the year
(i.e. excluding all exceptional items and
the results of discontinued operations)
increased by 34% from 3.5p to 4.7p,
primarily due to a reduction in net finance
costs and an increase in the number of
ordinary shares in issue immediately
following the October 2006 IPO.
The reported earnings per share for the
year increased by 28% from 4.3p to 5.5p,
again influenced by a reduction in
interest costs and an increase in the
number of ordinary shares in issue
immediately following the IPO.
Dividend
Subject to approval at the Annual General
Meeting, a final dividend of 2.8p per 
share will be paid on 1 August 2008 to
Shareholders on the register as at 4 July
2008. This will bring the annual dividend
to 4.0p, which represents a payout of 73% 
of reported earnings per share and means
that it is covered 1.4 times by reported
earnings per share.
Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated
by dividing operating profit before
exceptional items plus share of associates
and joint ventures by the year-end net
assets. Net assets exclude net debt,
pension deficits and tax provisions. The
return for the year was 18.6% (2007: 21.9%).
Cash flow
Free cash flow, which includes all cash flow
except special pension contributions,
acquisition spending, cash effect of
currency swaps, dividends and debt
repayments, was essentially unchanged at
£16.3m (2007: £16.1m). Capital expenditure
on intangible assets and property, plant
and equipment was £7.8m compared to
£6.9m in the prior year.
There were no special pension
contributions during the year, although
the prior year included £41.0m to finance
transfer values for deferred members and
to add a portion of IPO cash proceeds.
The £3.5m of net acquisition and disposal
spending in the current year related to
the increased ownership of Spendvision
Holdings Limited (£1.4m), the acquisition
of the business of Weinberg Travel BVBA
in Belgium (£1.0m) and payment of
deferred consideration relating to the
acquisition in the Czech Republic (£1.9m).
The £6.9m of net acquisition and disposal
spending in the prior year included the
increased ownership of Spendvision
Holdings Limited (£1.5m) and acquisitions
in the Czech Republic/Slovakia £2.1m),
Poland (£1.1m) and the USA (£3.8m).
Cash flow from financing activities in the
current year included £12.9m for dividends
and £12.5m to repay borrowings. In the
prior year the issue of Ordinary shares for
the IPO produced gross proceeds of
£180.2m, with IPO expenses of £18.7m
and a further £2.5m to arrange new
borrowing facilities. The prior year also
included £133.8m for repayment of
borrowings, which included preference
shares and accumulated premium
totalling £94.5m. 
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group’s retirement benefit liabilities
under the accounting standard IAS 19
‘Employee Benefits’ have reduced by
£11.8m to £48.1m before tax (2007:
£59.9m).
The UK scheme deficit reduced by
£12.9m, from £51.5m to £38.6m. The
scheme assets increased by £1.6m. The
scheme liabilities decreased by £11.3m
with increased life expectancy adding
£19.5m and an increase in the discount
rate from 5.3% to 6.3% saving
approximately £30.0m.
Annual payments amount to 17% of
pensionable salaries plus additional
annual payments of £6.3m that were
designed to eliminate the deficit on the
scheme by 2016. The total charge against
profits decreased by £1.6m to £0.4m
(2007: £2.0m).
The overseas schemes are primarily in
Germany and Switzerland, and the year-
end deficit increased by £1.1m to £9.5m
(2007: £8.4m), primarily due to changes 
in exchange rates.
At the year end, there was a deferred tax
asset of £10.8m (2007: £15.9m) related to
the UK deficit and £0.5m (2007: £0.5m)
related to the overseas schemes.
Funding and capital structure
At the year end, net debt was £110.4m
(2007: £104.4m) and represented gearing
of 69% (2007: 72%). Excluding the pension
deficits and related deferred tax assets,
year-end gearing was 56% (2007: 55%).
Net debt included £53.4m of non-sterling
debt (2007: £44.8m) with the change in
year-end exchange rates including the
effects of currency swaps increasing the
reported balance by £5.7m.
12 HRG Annual Report 2008 Treasury policies
The financial risks arising from changes in foreign currency and interest rates are managed centrally by the Group treasury department
with policies that are approved by the board. The Group does not enter into transactions of a speculative nature.
Foreign currency
The following principal exchange rates have been used in the financial statements:
Income Statement Balance Sheet
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change 2008 2007 Change
Euro 1.42 1.48 4% 1.25 1.47 18%
Swiss franc 2.32 2.35 1% 1.97 2.39 21%
US dollar 2.01 1.90 (5%) 1.99 1.96 (2%)
Canadian dollar 2.07 2.16 4% 2.04 2.26 11%
The Group is exposed to translation risk with respect to its non-sterling earnings. The Group uses non-sterling debt as a partial hedge
for this exposure, and for the year to 31 March 2009, has hedged the remaining balance. The overall impact of changes in exchange
rates on net earnings for the year is minimal.
The Group’s transaction exposure is limited, with the majority of its transactions denominated in the currency of the country of
operation. In the few instances where there is exposure, short-term hedges are taken once the exposure can be accurately identified.
Liquidity and interest rates
The Group has a £220m multi-currency
revolving credit facility that is committed
until September 2011. The facility is used
for loans, and the issue of letters of credit
and guarantees. The rate of interest is
based on LIBOR (EURIBOR for Euro-
denominated loans), a margin and
mandatory costs incurred by the lenders.
During the year, the maximum utilisation
of the facility, including guarantees, was
£201m with £184m at year end.
Where appropriate the Group considers
the use of interest rate caps to limit its
exposure to interest rates on its core
borrowings. At present the interest rates
on core borrowings are not capped.
Going concern
The Group’s finances and balance sheet
remain sound. The Directors believe that
the Group has adequate resources to
continue to operate for the foreseeable
future and have continued to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Share price
The closing mid-market price at the year
end was 40p (2007: 96p). During the year,
the price ranged from 40p to 104p 
per share.
Julian Steadman
Group Finance Director
3 June 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 13 14 HRG Annual Report 2008
Summary income statement
2008 2007
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 332.2 311.4
Operating profit before exceptional items 34.8 39.0
Exceptional items 1.2 (3.6)
Operating profit 36.0 35.4
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0.1 0.4
Net finance costs (10.9) (22.9)
Profit before tax 25.2 12.9
Taxation (7.7) (3.1)
Profit from continuing operations 17.5 9.8
Profit from discontinued operations – 4.9
Profit for the year 17.5 14.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 16.7 13.5
Minority interests 0.8 1.2
17.5 14.7
Summary balance sheet
2008 2007
As at 31 March £m £m
Goodwill and other intangible assets 231.4 219.7
Property, plant and equipment, and investments 15.4 14.2
Working capital (55.3) (53.3)
Current tax liabilities (8.2) (8.4)
Deferred tax assets 28.8 34.0
Net debt (110.4) (104.4)
Retirement benefit obligations (48.1) (59.9)
Other items (3.6) (1.0)
Net assets 50.0 40.9
Summary cash flow statement
2008 2007
Years ended 31 March £m £m
EBITDA
(1)
45.8 44.5
Working capital movements 0.7 0.8
Interest paid (9.8) (13.5)
Tax paid (6.0) (3.0)
Non cash exceptional items (0.7) 0.9
Capital expenditure (7.8) (6.9)
Pension funding in excess of EBITDA charge (6.5) (6.5)
Other movements 0.6 (0.2)
Free cash flow 16.3 16.1
Net IPO proceeds – 161.5
Repayment of preference shares – (89.6)
Exceptional pension contributions – (41.0)
Acquisitions and disposals (3.5) (6.9)
Dividends paid to external shareholders (11.6) –
Other movements (1.5) (10.0)
Net cash flows (0.3) 30.1
Foreign exchange (5.7) 4.5
(Increase)/decrease in net debt (6.0) 34.6
(1) EBITDA is EBITA including exceptional items plus depreciation.
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED HRG’s comprehensive range of
services includes Corporate
Travel Management: at one
end of the scale HRG offers
basic transaction services such
as reservations and bookings
for airlines, car rentals and
hotels accommodation and
fulfilment of clients’ online
bookings – backed up by 24
hour emergency assistance
facilities. Other services
include data provision,
warehousing and analytics,
benchmarking, inventory
management and technology
solutions. 
Consulting assists clients in a
number of ways from Travel
Policy analysis to managing
the whole contract tender
process. HRG Events &
Meetings Management (EMM)
works with existing HRG
clients as well as independent,
third parties and HRG Sports
has a long established
reputation in delivering expert
travel management solutions
in the field of high
performance sports. 
Spendvision, one of the
world’s leading expense
management automation
companies, provides
sophisticated, multi-language,
multi-currency, online expense
management and data
consolidation solutions. It is
capable of integrating with
our clients’ own systems or
alternatively standing alone,
and its leading edge
approach enables customers
to combine on-line expense
management with on-line
booking and reporting to
achieve a fully integrated
solution covering all elements
of the travel process from
shopping, approval, ticketing,
reconciling, reporting and
posting to the finance system. 
HRG’s prestigious client 
base includes over 200
corporations, many of which
are household names and
feature in the FTSE 100 or
Fortune 500 and which 
use HRG’s services across 
more than one international
boundary.
HRG’s ethos is to deliver 
value through choice whether
it’s through the range of
innovative solutions, cutting
edge technology and services
which best suit clients’ needs
or the unique opportunities
open to employees around
the world.
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) has a long heritage which goes
back as far as 1845 when it was founded by a wine merchant
and an insurance broker. It has evolved into today’s successful
company which now focuses on delivering corporate travel
services to an international audience.
HRG – the international corporate travel services company
Hogg Robinson Group... delivering value
HRG Annual Report 2008 15 Corporate Travel Services
Corporate Travel Management
Travel and its related expenses are often in the top three of a large
organisation’s controllable costs, alongside salaries and IT, so the use of
specialist skills and expertise to manage costs in this area, and to ensure
employees travel safely and securely, have never been more important.
16 HRG Annual Report 2008
A core service since 1945, Corporate Travel
Management is probably the best 
known of HRG’s business activities and it
remains the heartbeat of the company.
Its worldwide network combines local
expertise and specialist knowledge to
deliver an all round value offering and
tailored solution for its clients. 
HRG is an international corporate travel
services company. Designed primarily for
the ‘managed client’ – typically large, multi-
national companies – the overriding
objective of the business is to provide a
complete travel and expense management
programme, with related products and
services, to enable clients to operate in an
efficient and cost effective manner. These
services are provided in return for
management fees paid by the client. 
Paramount to its success is a client-focused
approach: its people, technology solutions,
processes and procedures revolve around
clients’ needs and expectations. Clients
look to HRG to deliver cost effective value
solutions and to manage their travel
requirements prudently regardless of the
general economic situation. 
Employing high calibre people ensures
that knowledge and expertise are the
foundations of all HRG’s activities. Its
reputation for service excellence has been
proven time and again not only through
the many industry awards and accolades
that have been won over the years, but
also from client testimonies. 
Client retention is high and remains above
90%. With an impressive portfolio that
encompasses multi-national corporations
and national companies, HRG has long
been delivering solutions to some of the
most prestigious organisations around 
the world. It is regarded particularly for 
its expertise in consolidating spend and 
in delivering service consistency across
international boundaries, whilst
recognising local market variance and
company cultures.
HRG services over 200 of its clients across
more than one international boundary
but the number of multi-national
companies wanting to consolidate their
activities across borders continues to
increase as they look to HRG to help
manage their costs downwards. In some
cases HRG services clients across more
than 40 countries. 
Its experience in working with a diverse
range of global clients has been used to
develop HRG Intellect, a comprehensive
range of technology based products 
and services covering areas from online
booking, to data management, reporting
and analysis. A complete understanding 
of a company and its travel programme
objectives enables HRG to identify which
solution, or combination of solutions, is
best placed to bring real business benefit
both in cost reduction and service
enhancement.
Security for both HRG’s corporate clients
and their travellers has always been a 
high priority and in recent years it has
become more important than ever.
Hayley Walters, Client Services Team Leader 
in the UK, aims to deliver a service that exceeds 
client expectations.
Dr Zinan Liu, Director of Sales, HRG China. 
HRG ‘s objective is to provide a complete travel 
and expense management programme to enable 
clients to operate efficiently and effectively. HRG Annual Report 2008 17
and strategic supplier negotiations, right
through to individual traveller itineraries.
Whether the focus is on personal service,
online booking tools, keeping track of
travellers’ whereabouts in times of personal,
local or global crisis, travel cost savings or 
a totally outsourced travel function, HRG
offers practical advice and innovative
solutions designed to meet the needs of
both the corporate decision-maker and
their travellers. 
Clients of our Corporate Travel
Management business are also able to
benefit from an additional range of value
enhancing services, including:
Consulting
Travel in recent years has become a
complex business and organisations
are increasingly looking to
independent consultants for advice,
knowledge, expertise and analytical
capabilities.
HRG Consulting is able to draw on the
experience, information and expertise of
Hogg Robinson Group, whilst assuring
clients of complete non-disclosure and
business confidentiality at all times. HRG
Consulting is often engaged by clients
who do not retain HRG as their travel
management company.
HRG Consulting’s knowledge and state 
of the art systems are commissioned by
clients to provide expert high quality
support on a fee-based project basis.
As a ‘fresh thinking’ specialist, HRG
Consulting understands the travel sector
and, in a rapidly changing worldwide
market, has valuable experience in global
business and change management. 
Its motivation is solution finding. HRG
Consulting is at the forefront of providing
an extensive range of professional services
in the travel and procurement field
including strategic advice, outsourcing,
benchmarking, and policy review,
particularly in the area of Supplier
programme management covering
airlines, hotels, car rental companies and
ground transport.
In 2007, HRG Consulting launched HRG 
Car Management System™ (HRG CMS), an
innovative solution designed to optimise
savings for clients on their global car rental
spend – an area of expenditure often
overlooked. For many organisations the
implementation of HRG CMS can result in
potential cost savings of around 35%.
In addition to Supplier programmes, HRG
Consulting is also involved in the other key
areas of Process and Analysis as well as
helping clients manage corporate credit
cards, and events and meetings
management opportunities. 
Process involves analysing, auditing and
reviewing policy to find best practice. 
The Analysis Service sets up benchmarking
procedures to view comparative
performance, as well as environmental
reporting, to reveal the impact of present
and future environmental policy. HRG
Consulting was one of the first companies
to launch a CO
2 calculator, a reporting tool
that helps clients to calculate emission
levels and therefore the carbon footprint 
of their business travel.
HRG Travelwatch, the traveller tracking
service, enables organisations to locate
their staff wherever they are. This capability
is complemented by a specialist team,
available 24 hours a day and 365 days a
year, on a ‘follow the sun’ basis, to assist
travellers in an emergency and ensure that
they are taken care of wherever they may
be. HRG also has staff on the ground
with proven experience in delivering
exceptional service, even when faced with
the most difficult of circumstances.
Corporate social responsibility is high up
the business agenda for many companies
and their employees. HRG works with
many environmentally conscious clients 
to help monitor their activity and
progress by providing mileage and CO 2
emissions reporting. As part of the travel
management process, HRG also works with
clients to evaluate their need for travel
and where appropriate offers alternatives
such as video and web conferencing.
HRG also understands that when making
important decisions, clients need to see
the bigger picture. HRG can capture data
from around the world and deliver timely
and relevant information for analysis to the
clients’ desktops or to HRG staff acting on
their behalf. This expertise is also used to
reduce cost in areas from service delivery
HRG’s comments are frequently sought by the
media. James Stevenson, Executive Vice President
– Sales and Business Management, AsPac, expands 
on client trends.
With a fresh thinking approach, HRG has
valuable travel experience in global business
and change management. Corporate Travel Services
18 HRG Annual Report 2008
Events & Meetings Management
The increasing globalisation and
interconnectivity of markets mean
the organisation and implementation
of international events and meetings
have an important role to play within
major corporations, particularly
those which have a greater desire to
focus on the value for money that co-
ordinating such operations can deliver .
Meetings have become increasingly
important to companies for several internal
reasons including training seminars, global
conferences, client entertainment, team
motivation and informing investors, and
they have become indispensable tools in
the communication mix, launching
products, building brands and loyalty. 
Companies recognise that they can
potentially make further real savings through
strategic management of their meetings-
related travel as in their everyday transient
travel. HRG Events & Meetings Management
(EMM) not only helps to design and manage
that strategy, it also handles the events
themselves, many of which demand
extraordinary levels of service.
Recent examples include: the movement
of 3,500 people on a specially chartered
Super Sea Cat ferry from Finland to attend a
week long company conference in Estonia,
where the brief included the management
of all the activities associated with the
event; and the two-day relaunch of a well
known brand which was attended by 200
delegates. HRG EMM was responsible for
the logistics, registration and participation
handling as well as the management of the
entire event from programme content and
seminar organisation to entertainment 
and branding.
In Europe and North America particularly,
HRG EMM is a market leading, globally
capable, full-service event organisation that
delivers complete solutions: simply put,
HRG EMM brings events to life. 
Combining the highest levels of project
management with industry-leading
technology solutions, years of planning
and logistical experience, HRG EMM
consistently provides clients with complete
control of their event and meetings spend
and the ability to drive forward their
business objectives.
HRG EMM has exceptional buying power
due to its long standing relationships with
suppliers and hotel groups worldwide. 
This means it can leverage its considerable
overall volume to secure preferred rates,
air fares and concessions for clients and
provide world-class logistical capability.
This ability to call on a vast network of
contacts means HRG EMM can quickly
and effectively source locations and
meeting facilities.
Sports
Sports refers to the management 
of travel and accommodation
arrangements for groups
participating in or attending major
professional or amateur sporting
events around the world.
HRG Sports is a highly specialised high-
margin business. Working with large
international sports-associated clients
presents HRG with opportunities to share
its passion for high performance. It
handles and oversees every aspect of
travel and accommodation arrangements
from high profile sporting clubs,
associations and federations to dealing
with players, crews and co-workers, as
well as the media, supporters and
affiliate organisations.
As world class athletes know, preparation,
dedication and experience are vital in
achieving outstanding results. HRG Sports
has a proven track record in sports travel
management; its expertise provides
clients with the service they need off the
field, so they can perform to the highest
standard on it.
It’s not just athletes with whom HRG
Sports shares a passion for success. It has
worked closely with a variety of sporting
clients including federations, associations,
committees, leagues, clubs, their
sponsors and partners as well as media
representatives and supporters. From
footballers to fans, HRG Sports understands
that every client has different needs. 
HRG Sports is ideally positioned to draw 
on its extensive knowledge, giving clients
access to a wide range of skills and
resources that will deliver outstanding
value. Whether incentivising staff with a
prestigious sporting package, entertaining
VIPs or getting a team to their next
destination, HRG Sports always provides
a creative solution.
From the Australian Tennis Open to the
International Ice Hockey Federation in
Switzerland, HRG Sports’ established
connections with elite professionals is
unquestionable; from its relationship 
of more than 40 years alongside the 
German Football Association (DFB) to over 
ten years managing the NBA’s air charter
programme in the USA, its breadth of
experience is clear.
The demanding nature of sports travel with
its logistical challenges requires a
professional, flexible and reliable service at
all times, and its vast global presence, local
expertise and commitment ensure that HRG
Sports always deliver the very best results.
A passion for success. HRG Sports manages the
travel logistics for some of the world’s greatest
sporting associations including the International
Ice Hockey Federation.
HRG EMM provides clients with complete control
of their events and meetings spend and assists in
helping them achieve their business objectives. Spendvision/Expense Management
HRG Annual Report 2008 19
In today’s cost conscious business environment, expense management is
becoming an area of increasing importance for clients. Spendvision, one of
the world’s leading expense management automation companies, provides
sophisticated, multi-language, multi-currency, online expense management
and data consolidation solutions.
As an expert in the outsourcing and
consultancy arenas, HRG offers a unique
'one-stop shop' for expense management,
helping clients manage employee
controlled expenditure transactions
whether using credit cards, personal cash
claims, purchasing cards or other mediums
like mobile phones and fuel cards.
Whether it’s a simple Expense
Management module or a fully integrated
system incorporating on-line bookings,
Spendvision delivers in four key areas:
visibility of spend, enhanced compliance
and reporting, ease of implementation and
use and process cost savings.
Solutions are delivered as ‘on demand’
applications, essentially online access over
the internet to a single platform which
means customers and partners do not
require separate hardware and software 
to access them.
The strategy is two-fold: firstly to provide
online expense management solutions
used by small and large corporations to
automate their expense claims, remove
the paper from the process, and drive
down the costs of handling transactions. 
The solutions maximise controls and
drive compliance of business policies;
and secondly, the Spendvision platform
is deployed to partners, predominantly
in the travel, telecoms and banking
sectors, to deliver its own-brand (‘white
label’) online account services to its
customer base. 
Spendvision’s leading edge approach
enables customers to combine on-line
expense management with on-line
booking and reporting to achieve a fully
integrated solution covering all elements
of the travel process from shopping,
approval, ticketing, reconciling, reporting
and posting to the finance system. 
Spendvision delivers in four key areas – visibility 
of spend, enhanced compliance and reporting,
ease of implementation and use and process 
cost savings. Technology
It has never been more important for organisations to control their Travel 
& Expense (T&E) budget. The need to obtain best value air fares and hotel
rates is paramount, as is corporate social responsibility, employee security
and the ever increasing need for timely and accurate information to
support both global and local decisions.
It is essential that the best technology is
available to meet many other needs
demanded by HRG’s clients. Historically,
technology in the area of travel
management has been ‘provided’ and
driven by suppliers. HRG evaluated the
market, how it would evolve globally and
what that could mean for the business. 
As a result, the decision was made to
develop its own service-oriented
technology platform which would address
the market’s increasing fragmentation of
supply and would offer our clients the
benefit of a fully automated process. 
This meant the creation of a new
technology business platform, HRG
Universal Super Platform™ (USP).
Developed in-house and constantly being
enhanced, HRG USP is based on leading-
edge industry standard technology and
provides one seamless international
environment for all services. 
HRG’s strategy of designing and building
the platform in-house provides the
flexibility required to meet client needs
while delivering the benefits of global
coverage and consistent standards. The
fundamental value of this platform comes
from its ability to retrieve and manage
travel content from various sources and
adapt to industry change. 
The benefits of this independent flexibility
and control are substantial: HRG USP has
the ability to collect air fares from multiple
sources, such as Global Distribution
Systems (GDS) and the Internet, and
provide access to specially negotiated
individual client fares and rates. It acts as 
a gateway to the best possible deals from
the widest possible market through one
single source and is designed to link
content providers (GDS and non-GDS),
third-party systems and the travel booker. 
The platform itself is not visible to users but
the outputs from it are. So, where
deployed, consultants see a new point-of-
sale screen, travellers can view an online
booking tool and travel managers have
access to tailored reports. 
To be launched during 2008 and designed
to enable HRG’s travel consultants to deliver
a superior service around the globe, HRG
Point of Sale™ (HRG POS) brings together
all global booking systems into one single
shared information source. HRG POS also
gives easy access to traveller-specific
information, such as travel policy or
booking history, from multiple international
locations. This ensures a truly round the
clock, consistent service for global clients in
line with HRG’s commitment to providing a
‘follow the sun’ approach to client service. 
These new developments will provide 
the opportunity for international
standardisation of process and sharing of
best practice, supporting the Company’s
ability to drive down operational cost and
manage the processing of transactions
with increased efficiency. It also provides 
a platform for delivery of future products
and services. 
The marriage of this technical capability
with the specialist skills and expertise 
of HRG’s staff will serve to continue the
creation of value for both client
organisations and Shareholders.
20 HRG Annual Report 2008
HRG’s independent technology acts as a
gateway to the best deals and links content
providers, third party systems and the
travel broker. People
HRG’s objective is to be the Company of Choice in everything it touches.
As a service company, HRG recognises that people are its greatest
asset and it therefore aims to create an environment in which
employees not only enjoy their work but one which also creates a
sense of pride and belonging.
HRG’s external reputation for service
excellence has been proven time and
again. In 2007 it was recognised by a
number of publications as ‘best in class’
both for selected individuals and as HRG
in a number of countries. 
Although difficult to measure, HRG believes
its global staff attrition is lower than the
industry average, due in part to some of
the unique benefits which are provided to
its employees worldwide:
Interchange is a unique international
exchange programme which is open to
everyone at HRG. Successful ‘Interchange’
applicants are able to spend one month
working with colleagues in another
country so that they have the opportunity
to experience different cultures. 
Staff Hospitality Employees are invited to
participate in a range of activities hosted
by members of the Executive Board and
senior management. For example, the
special international day on The Solent
involves nearly 60 randomly selected
applicants from around the world to enjoy
a day on Sunseeker boats with their
colleagues from other countries.
HRG Day is an annual event to encourage
everyone in the Company to raise money
for ActionAid and three of its projects:
Street children in the City of God, Brazil;
Aids/HIV orphans in Malawi; and a
community project in Cambodia.
Employees can apply to be HRG sponsored
‘Ambassadors’ which enables them to
visit the projects, see at first hand the
difference the fundraising makes and to
report on the progress. 
HRG’s Vision and Values are focused 
on being the Company of Choice:
Committed to delivering the best for the
Company, its clients, colleagues and
Shareholders; 
Honest by operating an open and honest
policy with clients and colleagues and
building strong relationships based on
mutual trust, confidence and respect; 
Outstanding by being passionate in
everything the Company and its people
do and being driven to deliver solutions
and services that clients recognise as not
just meeting their expectations but
exceeding them; 
Innovative by constantly evolving with the
changing nature of its business and that of
its clients, always seeking fresh ways to help
them meet their goals;
Client-focused by adopting a culture where
its people, processes and solutions revolve
around the needs of its clients;
Experts HRG combines industry experience,
skilled employees, specialist capabilities and
leading edge solutions to ensure the service
delivered is second to none.
HRG Annual Report 2008 21
HRG Russia: Marina Shubenkina, Finance Analyst,
and her colleagues in the Moscow office, 
paint masks to help with the global fundraising
target for HRG Day.
HRG Day: HIV/Aids orphans in Malawi, one of the
three projects supported by HRG worldwide. BOARD OF DIRECTORS, LEFT TO RIGHT STANDING: DAVID RADCLIFFE, JULIAN STEADMAN.
SEATED: TONY ISAAC, JOHN COOMBE, GEORGE BATTERSBY.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM, LEFT TO RIGHT: CHRIS FRY, JACQUI HIGGS, TOM GLEASON, JULIAN STEADMAN, KEITH BURGESS, 
KEVIN RUFFLES, BILL BRINDLE, DAVID RADCLIFFE.
One team, working together
22 HRG Annual Report 2008 JOHN COOMBE 
CHAIRMAN, AGE 63
John Coombe is the former Chief Financial
Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc. He is currently a
Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc and
of Home Retail Group plc. He is also a Trustee of
The Royal Academy of Arts Trust. He is Chairman
of the Nominations Committee of HRG and also
a member of the Remuneration Committee.
TONY ISAAC
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 65
Tony Isaac was Chief Executive Officer of BOC
Group PLC until 2006 and was a Non-Executive
Director of Hogg Robinson plc until May 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of International
Power plc, where he acts as Senior Independent
Director and is a member of its Audit,
Remuneration and Appointments Committees,
and is a Director of Schlumberger Limited,
where he acts as a member of its Finance and
Governance Committees, and is Chairman of its
Audit Committee. He is Chairman of the Audit
Committee of HRG, and is a member of both
the Remuneration and Nominations
Committees. He also acts as the Senior
Independent Director of HRG.
DAVID RADCLIFFE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, AGE 55
David Radcliffe joined the Company in 1978,
was appointed to the Board in 1989 and
became Chief Executive in 1997. Since that
time he has re-positioned the Company as a
rounded corporate services organisation.
David is a Fellow of the Institute of Sales and
Marketing Management and a Companion of
the Institute of Management.
GEORGE BATTERSBY
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 61
George Battersby is a main Board Director of
Cable and Wireless plc responsible for Human
Resources. In addition, he is the Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee of HRG and is 
a member of both the Audit and Nominations
Committees.
JULIAN STEADMAN
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR, AGE 54
Julian Steadman joined the Company in
December 2007. Julian’s early career was with
Procter & Gamble in the UK and Belgium and
The Clorox Company in the USA, ultimately
holding the position of Finance Director for
its Food Service Products Division. Since
returning to the UK in 1994, he has held the
role of Group Finance Director with Eyecare
Products plc, Biocompatibles International plc
and Christian Salvesen plc. 
HRG Annual Report 2008 23
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BILL BRINDLE
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND
DISTRIBUTION DIRECTOR, AGE 46
Bill Brindle joined HRG in 1998 and has
responsibility for HRG's information technology,
distribution and product development needs.
Since joining HRG, Bill has been instrumental 
in driving change systems within the business
focusing on the design, development, delivery
and support of innovative business systems 
and architecture.
KEITH BURGESS
GENERAL COUNSEL AND
CENTRAL SERVICES DIRECTOR, AGE 53
Keith Burgess is a Barrister and a fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Secretaries. In addition 
to the Group’s legal function, Keith is closely
involved in HRG's international expansion,
acquisition and divestment projects and has
responsibility for a number of central service
functions including Insurance, Human Resources
and the team which manages the relationships
with HRG’s worldwide network. 
CHRIS FRY
COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR, AGE 62
Chris Fry joined Hogg Robinson Group in 
1975. He was appointed to the Board of Hogg
Robinson plc in February 1994 and took up 
his current position in 2006 with overall
responsibility for sales and corporate client
activity. He is particularly skilled at working 
with large national and international clients,
especially when undertaking strategic travel
management reviews.
TOM GLEASON
REGIONAL PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA, AGE 58
Tom Gleason has 35 years corporate travel
experience, gained mainly in senior positions
within American Airlines. He joined Hogg
Robinson Group in 2005 and was appointed
Regional President in 2006. Tom is a Board
Member of British American Business Inc
and has degrees in Education and Business
Administration.
JACQUI HIGGS
GROUP MARKETING DIRECTOR, AGE 60
During her career with the Company, Jacqui
Higgs has held a number of increasingly senior
positions. She was appointed to her current role
in 2006 and has responsibility for HRG's global
marketing and communications activity. Jacqui
led the international team responsible for the
development and global implementation of 
the HRG brand and continues to work closely
with the HRG worldwide network in ensuring
HRG’s profile is professionally presented on a
global basis.
KEVIN RUFFLES
REGIONAL PRESIDENT EUROPE AND
ASIA PACIFIC, AGE 54
Since joining the Company in 1972, Kevin
Ruffles has held a number of operational roles,
culminating in his appointment to the Board
of Hogg Robinson plc in 1997. He was
appointed Regional President for Asia Pacific in
2006 and additionally assumed responsibility
for Europe in 2007. His leadership roles have
included: UK e-ticket launch with British
Airways; ISO quality accreditation and
implementation throughout the UK; and the
integration of the business travel interests of
Kuoni Holdings.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 24 HRG Annual Report 2008
Directors
J D Coombe
Chairman 
(also, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and
member of the Remuneration Committee)
D J C Radcliffe
Chief Executive
J A Steadman 
Group Finance Director
A E Isaac
Non-Executive Director
(also, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the
Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and
Remuneration Committees)
G W Battersby
Non-Executive Director
(also, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees)
Company Secretary
K J Burgess
Registered office
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire RG21 3BT
Registered number: 3946303
Telephone: 01256 312 600
Fax: 01256 346 999
Website: www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Legal advisers to the Company 
Macfarlanes LLP
20 Cursitor Street
London EC4A 1LT 
Financial advisers to the Company
Lazard & Co., Limited
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Company brokers
Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Credit Suisse
One Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Hay’s Galleria
1 Hay’s Lane
London SE1 2RD
Registrars
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
COMPANY INFORMATION Our responsibilities...
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
HRG Annual Report 2008 25 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
26 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report together
with the financial statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc (the
Company) and its subsidiary undertakings (the Group or HRG) for
the year ended 31 March 2008.
Principal activities
In the year under review, the principal activities of HRG, of which
the Company is the holding company, have been that of an
international business support services group providing value-
added services in the global corporate travel market. Within this
market, HRG targets the international and national managed sector,
where clients require a range of globally-integrated and tailored
travel and expense management services. Its growth strategy
focuses on achieving increased customer penetration, entry into
new markets, increasing its range of services and developing new
higher margin services for large clients which are attracted to
HRG’s offering of managed corporate travel programmes.
Enhanced business review and future developments
The Directors are required to provide a fair review of the
development and performance of the business of the Group during
the year, the position of the Group as at 31 March 2008, expected
future developments and a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Group. The Directors have included the
information which fulfils this requirement in this Directors’Report
and within the following sections of this Annual Report:
Chairman’s Statement page 4
Chief Executive’s Review page 6
Financial Review page 11
Corporate Governance page 29
Remuneration Report page 32
Risk
Forward-looking information
Discussions regarding financial information contained in the 2008
Annual Report and Financial Statements may contain forward-
looking statements with respect to certain of the plans, current
goals and expectations relating to the future financial condition,
business performance and results of HRG. By their nature, all
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because
they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond
the control of HRG, some of which are set out below. Readers are
cautioned that, as a result, HRG’s actual future financial condition,
business performance and results may differ materially from the
plans, goals and expectations expressed or implied in such
forward-looking statements.
Business risks
HRG operates in a highly competitive market and HRG may not
react adequately to changes in the corporate travel market;
general economic downturns, terrorism, the fear of terrorism,
travel industry strikes, fuel price escalation, national disasters,
health pandemics or similar events could reduce revenues. 
Revenues may also be affected materially if HRG is unable to
secure new or renew existing contracts. Client contracts are
generally non-exclusive and many generate fees on a per-
transaction and/or fixed fee basis. HRG is substantially dependent
on global distribution systems (GDS) and other suppliers for
certain inventory and revenue; HRG’s success depends on the
efficiency of its systems, third party systems and the ability to
integrate its systems with clients, suppliers and third parties.
HRG’s strategy includes undertaking acquisitions and this
involves integration risks. HRG is also reliant on its key executives.
Risks relating to HRG’s markets
In most markets, HRG requires licences to operate its businesses
which could be lost; regulatory and legal changes may also
impose burdens on HRG which have not yet been foreseen.
The loss of a partner from HRG’s global network could also lead
to lack of market coverage.
Risks relating to HRG’s defined benefit pension schemes
HRG operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes,
the largest of which is a closed scheme relating to UK
employees. Although the IPO enabled the Company to
substantially reduce the deficit in the UK defined benefit scheme,
in common with many companies which operate such schemes,
each of HRG’s defined benefit schemes remains in deficit. Further
details relating to HRG’s pension obligations are set out in note
23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Risks relating to the Ordinary shares of HRG
Prior to the IPO in late 2006, no market had existed for the
Ordinary shares of the Company and an active trading market may
not fully develop until such time as the market fully understands
the nature of HRG’s business model; the market price of the
Ordinary shares may therefore fluctuate significantly. Exchange
rate fluctuations may affect an investor whose principal currency is
not Pounds Sterling; certain non-UK shareholders may also not be
able to exercise pre-emption rights in all circumstances.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company who held office
throughout the year, except as shown below, were as follows:
J D Coombe* Chairman
D J C Radcliffe Chief Executive
J A Steadman Group Finance Director
(appointed 21 December 2007)
G W Battersby*
A E Isaac*#
*Non-Executive Directors
#Senior Independent Director
John Coombe and Julian Steadman will retire at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election.
J F W Kennerley also held office as the Group Finance Director
of the Company from the beginning of the year until
21 December 2007.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company
are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 36. HRG Annual Report 2008 27
Other than contracts for service, there were no significant
contracts between the Directors and any Group company during
or at the end of the year.
The rules relating to the re-election, appointment and replacement
of Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
Results and dividends
The Company recorded a profit after tax for the year of £17.5m
(2007: £9.8m) on increased revenues of £332.2m (2007: £311.4m).
Full details of the financial performance of the Company during
the year are contained in the Financial Review on pages 11 to 14. 
The Directors declared an Interim Dividend of 1.2p per Ordinary
share for the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007: £nil) which was
paid on 21 December 2007. The Directors believe that the
Company remains well positioned for the future and are
accordingly pleased to recommend the payment of a final
dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 2.8p (2007: 2.8p)
per Ordinary share payable on 1 August 2008 to Shareholders on
the register on 4 July 2008. Shareholders are once again being
offered the opportunity to receive this dividend in the form of
fully paid Ordinary shares rather than cash.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company currently has no controlling Shareholder.
As at 27 May 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of the Annual Report, the Company had been
notified of the following interests by Shareholders who held
more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shares %
Beverweerd Investments BV 49,358,568 16.09
F&C Asset Management Plc 34,168,786 11.14
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 26,255,356 8.56
Permira Europe II Nominees Limited 22,114,644 7.21
Henderson Global Investors Limited 18,054,248 5.88
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 16,316,645 5.32
Liontrust Investment Services Limited 15,641,234 5.10
Legal & General Group plc 15,628,570 5.09
Standard Life Investments Limited 14,729,272 4.80
Blackrock Inc 13,681,507 4.46
Artemis Investment Management Limited 12,659,000 4.13
Share capital
A total of 1,199,054 fully paid Ordinary shares was issued on 
21 December 2007 in satisfaction of those Shareholders who had
elected to accept a scrip dividend alternative in respect of the
interim dividend which was payable on that date. No other shares
have been issued during the year. The Company’s authorised,
issued and fully paid share capital as at 31 March 2008 is accordingly
as set out in the table below. All shares carry equal voting rights.
There are no treasury shares to which voting rights are attached.
On 22 November 2007, the HRG Employee Benefit Trust 
acquired 3,105,661 shares through purchases on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Authorised
Number Amount Nominal Value
513,808,171 £5,138,081.71 £0.01 each
Issued and fully paid
Number Amount
306,833,065 £3,068,330.65
Share incentive schemes
Details of the share-based incentive schemes operated by the
Company are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 32
to 36 and in note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions made by the Group during the year are detailed in
note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events
Post balance sheet events are detailed in note 34 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pensions
The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
On this basis, the deficit in the Group’s pension schemes at 31
March 2008 was £48.1m (2007: £59.9m). As with most pension
schemes, assets are invested for the long term to meet long term
liabilities but the deficit referred to above reflected market
conditions as at 31 March 2008. Further details of pension matters
are set out in note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employees
Employees are informed about the performance of the Group
and of any factors affecting their employment. Annual Reports are
made available to all staff and there is a comprehensive internal
communications programme through which management
communicate with employees, and employees are encouraged to
assist in the Group’s development.
Fair and full consideration is given to applications for employment
from disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes
and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the employment of
those who become disabled. Training, career development and
promotion opportunities are, as far as practicable, identical for all
employees. The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and
employ suitably qualified, capable and experienced people in an
environment of equal opportunity.
The Group aims to maintain a high standard of safe and healthy
working conditions comparable with the best practices in the
particular industry in which it operates.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises its responsibility to conduct the business
of the Company in a manner which engages positively so as to
ensure that it reflects the social standards of all HRG’s stakeholders.
The following is a summary of the principles which DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
CONTINUED
28 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
HRG pursues in respect of each of the areas reflecting its
corporate social responsibility:
How we do business
We recognise that our Shareholders have invested in our
business and the success of our business will directly influence
the value of their investment. We work cooperatively with our
suppliers and business partners, choosing those who share our
values and strive for mutual trust and benefit. We recognise the
importance of managing environmental, social and governance
risks through our business practices and work hard to maintain
our reputation for honesty, integrity and respect for people.
How we treat our employees
We respect our employees’ individuality and diversity, require
them to live up to our values and provide the encouragement
and opportunity to develop their careers. We recruit and
promote on suitability and merit and recognise the vital role
our people play in providing excellent client service. We are
committed to attracting, motivating and retaining the best
talent, and will maintain our reputation as a company of choice.
How we treat our clients
We constantly look to offer our clients superior services that
provide good value and strive to offer them the best economic
and environmental choices.
How we behave in our communities
We strive to behave as responsible corporate citizens globally
and good, supportive neighbours in our local communities.
How we deal with the environment
The Group’s trading activities have only a marginal direct impact
on the environment and contribute minimally to pollution. The
Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner that
shows responsibility towards the environment and in ensuring
high standards of health and safety for its employees. The Group
complies with statutory and mandatory requirements and where
practicable aims to exceed regulations applicable to its areas of
business. Working practices are routinely monitored as improved
techniques and technologies become available.
HRG strives to constantly develop its approach to corporate social
responsibility. Detailed copies of HRG’s current policies on each of
these areas and the way in which it seeks to implement them are
available on the Company’s website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Donations
The Group has made charitable donations during the year
totalling £83,700 (2007: £38,000). Of the total charitable donations
made in the year £36,900 (2007: £24,500) was made by the Group
and the remainder was paid by or on behalf of employees. 
No political donations were made during the year (2007: £nil).
Financial instruments
A statement of the Group’s policies in relation to financial instruments
is set out in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Policy for paying suppliers
The Group’s current policy concerning the payment of its trade
creditors and other suppliers is to:
(a) settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when
agreeing the terms of each transaction;
(b) ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
(c) pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal
obligations.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy.
Overseas subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies by
applying local best practice. The figure for trade creditors for the
Group at the end of the financial year represents 9 days
purchases (2007: 9 days). The Company has no trade creditors.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director of the Company confirms that (a) so far as he is
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and (b) that he has taken all the
steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 July 2008. The
resolutions to be proposed at the AGM together with explanatory
notes are contained within the Notice of Meeting which has been
despatched to Shareholders with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
3 June 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
HRG Annual Report 2008 29
Statement of compliance
The Board has at all times been guided by the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance (the Code) in seeking to achieve the
highest standards of business integrity, ethics, and professionalism
across all our activities. This report sets out the manner in which
the principles of Section 1 of the Code have been applied. HRG
has complied with the Code throughout the year and is
committed to maintaining that compliance.
Board of Directors
The Board has five members: the Chairman, two further Non-
Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The effectiveness
of the Board is underpinned by a balance between Executive and
Non-Executive Directors and the Board believes that this brings
together the appropriate skills and experience necessary to
provide effective leadership and control of the Company. 
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 23.
Board responsibilities, balance and effectiveness
Collectively, the Board is responsible to Shareholders for setting
the direction of the business and monitoring the Group’s
performance going forward. It is also responsible for ensuring
that an effective internal control environment exists, and that the
risks associated with the business are appropriately managed.
The Board meets its commitment to the strategic direction and
control of the Group by meeting regularly throughout the year.
It has a schedule of regular meetings and also meets on an
unscheduled basis as the need arises. It defines and sets the
strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring that its financial and
human resources are allocated to meet those objectives.
The executive element of the Board is balanced by independent
Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual or group of
individuals can dominate the Board’s decision making. The
Group’s Non-Executive Directors are regarded as independent
and free from any business or other relationship that could
materially interfere with their judgement.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is maintained.
The conduct of business
The Company has established business values and standards for
the Group, which provide a framework for the Group to balance
the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
These policies are commented on in more detail in the Directors’
Report on pages 25 to 28 and are also available on the
Company’s website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to
it for decision including the Group’s business strategy, annual
budget, annual and interim financial results, dividends, and major
corporate activities, such as the making of investments, acquisitions
and disposals. It also considers regular reports from the Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director and operating reports from
individual divisions or functions. Complete, timely and relevant
information is provided to the Board to ensure that informed
judgements are made in pursuit of the Group’s objectives.
The Board also reviews the performance of management in
meeting business objectives, plans the succession of key
executives, and determines appropriate remuneration levels
through the Remuneration Committee, a committee of the
Board. The operational management of the Group is delegated
to the Chief Executive who manages this through an Executive
Management Team which meets according to a regular schedule
and also on an ad hoc basis as the need arises. The Composition
of the Executive Management Team is set out on page 23.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
The Non-Executive Directors provide an independent and
constructive challenge to the business development plans that are
proposed by executive management. Through their membership
of the Board committees they also have responsibility for:
– overseeing that the systems of internal control and risk
management are appropriate and effective;
– managing the relationship with the external auditors;
– evaluating the performance of the management teams in
meeting targets and objectives;
– setting the remuneration of Executive Directors and approving
the Chief Executive’s recommendations as to the remuneration
of the Executive Management Team; and
– planning senior management succession.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Tony Isaac. 
In this capacity, he is an additional contact point for shareholders
should they feel that their concerns are not being addressed
through normal channels.
Board development and training
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed
Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme, and
training is provided where needed for Directors on their roles
and legal obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant
with their responsibilities as Directors.
Directors are also kept informed of changes to relevant
regulatory regimes, and institutional investor guidelines. All of
the Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and also to external independent advice
should they so wish.
Performance of the Board
The current Board conducted a review of its efficiency during the
year following which some minor adjustments to the procedures
of the Board and its Committees have been implemented.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that the current Board systems and
structures are appropriate to the needs of the business.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director, met without the Chairman CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
30 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
present to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman,
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors. The
Chairman also met with the other Non-Executive Directors on
two occasions during the year, without the Executive Directors
being present, in order to review the operation of the Board. In
addition, the Chairman had a meeting with each Non-Executive
Director to review their contribution to the Board.
During the year, the Board met on ten occasions; all Directors
attended each of these meetings.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s
Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-
election on a rotational basis every three years and newly
appointed Directors are subject to election by the Shareholders
at the first AGM after their appointment.
Board Committees
The Company has established an Audit Committee, a
Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
No person other than a Committee member is entitled to
attend the meetings of these Committees, except at the
invitation of the Committee. The terms of reference of these
Committees are available on the Company’s website at
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two Independent Non-
Executive Directors (other than the Chairman), chaired by
Tony Isaac, who has significant and recent relevant financial
experience. In addition to the members of the Committee,
regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings at the
invitation of the Committee have included the Chairman, the
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, representatives of
the external auditors, the head of internal audit, the Group
financial controller and the Company Secretary. The Committee
met on five occasions during the year to 31 March 2008 and all
members attended all of the meetings.
The Audit Committee meets not less than three times a year and
at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee requires. 
At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of
financial reporting and related matters including the half year
results prior to their submission to the Board. The Committee
focused in particular on critical accounting policies and practices
adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement
that may materially impact reported results. It also monitored the
internal controls that are operated by management to ensure
the integrity of information reported to shareholders. The
Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s
external auditors. It has advised the Board on the appointment,
independence, and objectivity of the external auditors and on
their remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory
audit with the external auditors. The Audit Committee carries out
an independent assessment of the suitability and performance
of the external auditors in making its recommendation to the
Board for their reappointment.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual
internal audit plan for the Group, to ensure that the internal audit
function is adequately sponsored and resourced. Its terms of
reference also provide for it to review the whistle-blowing
arrangements for staff.
At the meeting to review the 2008 Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the Committee considered the level of non-audit
services being provided by the Group’s external auditors in order
to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence of the
external auditors are safeguarded. The lead audit partner is
rotated every five years.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman,
John Coombe and the two Non-Executive Directors, Tony Isaac
and George Battersby. The Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee is George Battersby. The Remuneration Committee is
responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive
Directors of the Company and other senior executives of the
Group against targets, and for making recommendations to the
Board on remuneration.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has taken advice
on remuneration from Kepler Associates (in relation to overall
remuneration strategy, and also in relation to the design and
structure of share-based incentive schemes). Kepler Associates is
independent from the Company. The Committee met on three
occasions during the year to 31 March 2008 and all members
were in attendance. Details of the activities of the Remuneration
Committee are given in the Remuneration report on page 32.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for matters of
Board structure, management succession and the identification
and appointment of Directors. The Committee comprises
the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee is John Coombe. The Committee
met on three occasions during the year, and all members
attended each of these meetings. The Committee meets when
appropriate and, in any event, not less than twice a year.
Communication with Shareholders
The Board attaches importance to the effectiveness of its
communications with Shareholders. The Board has initiated
dialogue with institutional Shareholders and the financial
community. This has included presentations of the interim and
full-year results, and also includes regular meetings with major
Shareholders and industry analysts. All Shareholders and
potential Shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report 
and other significant information about HRG on the Company’s
website at www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. HRG Annual Report 2008 31
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM
which is to be held on 21 July 2008, where they will have the
opportunity to receive comprehensive information on the
Group’s business activities and to question senior management
about business issues and prospects. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration, and Nominations Committees will be available to
answer any questions on the work of the Committees. All
Shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to
the AGM. All proxy votes will be counted and the level of proxy
votes lodged for each resolution will be reported at the AGM
and on the Company’s website.
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in
safeguarding the shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. Within the Group, managers are
responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant
risks applicable to their areas of business together with the
design and operation of appropriate internal controls to ensure
effective mitigation. These risks, identified in the context of
business objectives, are assessed periodically and may be
associated with a variety of internal and external events,
including control breakdowns, competition, disruption,
regulatory requirements and natural and other shocks.
Risk management software is used at all major sites, and for key
central functions, which provides management with access to all
identified risks at a business, corporate and Group level, together
with details of how the risks are being dealt with. From this, the
Executive Management Team reviews on a regular basis the risk
management and control process and considers:
– the authority, resources, and coordination of those involved in
the identification, assessment and management of significant
risks faced by the Group;
– the response to the significant risks which have been
identified by management and others; and
– the maintenance of a control environment directed towards
the proper management of risk.
A process of self-certification has also been established within
the Group which provides a documented and auditable trail of
accountability for the operation of the system of internal control.
This is complemented by the activities of the internal audit
function which also provides a degree of assurance as to the
operation and validity of the system of internal control. Planned
corrective actions are independently monitored for their timely
completion.
The internal audit function works to a programme which is
structured with the risks identified by the Group in mind and is
integrated across the business in order to reduce overlap or gaps
in coverage. These risks are reviewed with the Board and
Executive Management Team being involved in the process.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
control that has been in operation during the year ended 31
March 2008. In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process
for the identification and evaluation of significant risks affecting
the business and the manner in which they are managed.
During the process, the Board has identified the need to
strengthen controls in a small number of locations. Actions have
been initiated to address such issues. REMUNERATION REPORT
32 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
Membership and terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) comprises the
independent Non-Executive Directors, George Battersby and Tony
Isaac, together with the Chairman of the Company, John Coombe.
The Committee is chaired by George Battersby and is responsible
for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors and the
Executive Management Team of the Company against targets, and
for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration
policy generally.
During the year, the Committee was advised by Kepler Associates,
appointed by the Committee in 2006, on remuneration strategy,
incentive design and market data. Kepler Associates provides no
other services to the Group. Additional assistance was received
from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy
When deciding appropriate levels of salary and other forms of
remuneration during the year, the Committee takes into account:
– the annual and continuing performance of each Director
within his sphere of operation;
– the requirement to ensure that improving shareholders’
returns are achieved;
– the Company’s need to provide sufficiently attractive
remuneration packages for the recruitment and retention of
Executives able to provide direction and motivation; and
– appropriate market rates. In judging appropriate market
salaries, the Committee considered external benchmarking
research undertaken for them by Kepler Associates.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing
policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the
remuneration packages of individual Directors. Up to 40%
of each Executive Director’s potential remuneration is variable
and linked to performance. Fixed pay includes salary and
pension; the variable element of pay comprises annual bonus
and long term incentives. No Director is involved in deciding
his own remuneration.
Elements of remuneration
Basic salaries
Individual basic salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee
taking into account related performance and any changes in
responsibility.
Non-cash benefits (other than pensions)
The Company provides a comprehensive package of
employment benefits for Executive Directors. Principal elements
include a fully expensed company car, life insurance, private
health insurance, personal accident insurance and permanent
disability insurance, none of which are pensionable.
Annual Bonus Plan
In addition to salary, all Executive Directors are eligible for an
annual performance-related bonus, which is non-pensionable.
The Committee believes it is important that the Executive
Directors have a substantial part of their annual remuneration
based on performance. For the year ending 31 March 2009, the
Committee has determined that a total potential cash bonus of
40% of base salary would be payable to Key Management, (i.e.
Executive Directors and members of the Executive Management
team) for on-target performance achievement against financial
targets (Cash and EBITA), and would reach a maximum of 80% of
base salary for the out-performance of such targets by levels
which the Committee regards as appropriate and stretching.
The total remuneration received or receivable by the Directors
holding office during the year ended 31 March 2008 is set out in
Table 1 in this report. No bonus was payable to any Executive
Director in respect of the year ending 31 March 2008.
Pensions
Messrs Radcliffe and Kennerley were members of the Hogg
Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (the Scheme) during the year,
to which they each contributed 6% of their pensionable salary
(as did Messrs Brindle, Fry and Ruffles in respect of the prior year),
being basic salary less the Lower Earnings Limit. The Scheme
provides an accrual rate of 2% of Pensionable Salary for each
year of service. In common with other certain long serving
individuals, David Radcliffe has a five year service credit.
Pensions in respect of service up to August 1999 are increased
in payment, and in deferment after leaving service, in line with
Limited Price Indexation (LPI) per annum compound; pensions in
respect of service after this date are increased in payment
deferment each year in line with inflation up to LPI.
The normal retirement age for David Radcliffe is 60. On death, a
spouse’s pension of one half of the member’s pension is payable.
With effect from 8 April 2008, the Company consented to David
Radcliffe’s withdrawal from the Scheme, reflecting the fact that he
has exceeded the maximum capped entitlement under pensions
legislation. Thereafter, David Radcliffe’s pension entitlement has
been replaced with a direct contribution arrangement under
which a non-pensionable payment is made equal to 22% of his
base salary. Julian Steadman also has a direct contribution
arrangement under which he receives a non-pensionable
payment of 30% of his base salary.
Details of Directors’ pension benefits are set out in Table 2 in
this report.
Directors’ service agreements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have continuing service contracts with
the Company which are subject to termination by the Company
giving either party not less than 12 months’ written notice.
Details of the salary and benefits paid to the Executive Directors
are set out in Tables 1–3 below.
John Kennerley, the former Group Finance Director, left the
Company on 31 December 2007. The terms of John Kennerley’s
departure were the subject of a Compromise Agreement
dated 21 December 2007 (the Agreement), the principal terms of
which were compensation in respect of 12 months salary,
benefits and bonus. The Agreement contains an acknowledgment
and reaffirmation of the confidentiality and post-termination
restrictions contained in Mr Kennerley’s former service contract. HRG Annual Report 2008 33
Non-Executive Directors
a) John Coombe has entered into a letter of appointment with
the Company dated 7 June 2006. He is entitled to an annual
fee of £125,000 and the reimbursement of out of pocket
expenses. Mr Coombe’s appointment is for an initial term of
three years, subject to earlier termination by either party. If
the Company elects to terminate Mr Coombe’s appointment
before the expiry of the initial term, he will be entitled to one
month’s notice and fees during that period.
b) Tony Isaac has entered into a letter of appointment with
the Company dated 1 September 2006 under which he
was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from 11
September 2006. He is entitled to an annual fee of £30,000, a
fee of £5,000 for his role as Chairman of the Company’s Audit
Committee, a fee of £5,000 for his role as Senior Independent
Director and the reimbursement of out of pocket expenses.
Mr Isaac’s appointment is for an initial term of three years,
subject to earlier termination by either party.
c) George Battersby has entered into a letter of appointment with
the Company dated 1 September 2006 under which he was
appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from
11 September 2006. He is entitled to an annual fee of £30,000,
a fee of £5,000 for his role as Chairman of the Company’s
Remuneration Committee and the reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses. Mr Battersby’s appointment is for an initial
term of three years, subject to earlier termination by either party.
Share Incentive Schemes
The Company adopted three share based incentive schemes at
the time of the IPO on 12 October 2006, namely a Performance
Share Plan (the PSP), a Company Share Option Plan (the CSOP)
and a Sharesave Scheme (the Sharesave Scheme).
The following grants were made under these Schemes during
the year (the 2008 awards).
The PSP
On 10 August 2007, options were granted to employees eligible
under the PSP to subscribe for 1,549,882 Ordinary shares in the
Company of 1p each (Ordinary shares) vesting on 10 August
2010. The options are exercisable without payment of an exercise
price, but are subject to the achievement of certain performance
criteria which the Remuneration Committee regards as
appropriate and stretching. Details of the performance targets
are listed below together with details of options which have
lapsed or become exercisable during the year.
On 27 December 2007, in connection with his employment as
a Director of the Company, options were granted to Julian
Steadman to subscribe for 420,993 Ordinary shares without
payment of an exercise price. 135,593 of those Ordinary shares
(Restricted Shares) vest in full three years after the date of grant
and proportionally on a straight line basis from that date. No
exercise of an option may be made in respect of the Restricted
Shares prior to (i) 27 December 2010, or (ii) the date of
termination of Julian Steadman’s employment with the Company,
whichever may be earlier. The balance of the options granted to
Julian Steadman under the PSP on 27 December 2007 are
exercisable without payment of an exercise price, but are subject
to the achievement of certain performance criteria which the
Remuneration Committee regards as appropriate and stretching.
Details of the performance targets are listed below.
The CSOP
On 10 August 2007, options were granted to employees eligible
under the CSOP to subscribe for 3,632,064 Ordinary shares
vesting on 10 August 2010. The options are exercisable at an
exercise price of 66p, and are subject to the achievement of
certain performance criteria which the Remuneration Committee
regards as appropriate and stretching. Details of the performance
targets are listed below. Details of the performance targets are
set out below together with details of options which have lapsed
or become exercisable during the year.
On 27 December 2007, in connection with his employment as a
Director of the Company, options were granted to Julian Steadman
to subscribe for 440,443 Ordinary shares at an exercise price of
59p, but are subject to the achievement of certain performance
criteria which the Remuneration Committee regards as
appropriate and stretching. Details of the performance targets
are listed below.
Performance criteria in respect of the PSP and the CSOP
In respect of both the PSP and CSOP , a proportion of each award,
other than in respect of the Restricted Shares granted to Julian
Steadman on 27 December 2007, is based on the satisfaction of
performance conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR),
with the balance subject to a performance condition based on 
real growth in earnings per share (EPS). The percentage split
between TSR awards and EPS awards is dependent on the
seniority of a participant. In the case of all awards made to Key
Management under either the PSP or CSOP , the performance
criteria are split equally between the TSR and the EPS conditions.
In the case of any other eligible employee, the performance
criteria are split as to 75% in respect of the EPS condition and
25% in respect of the TSR condition.
Chart 1: Value of £100 invested in HRG shares at flotation
Note to Chart 1:
TSR is calculated in £, based on spot share prices and includes dividends reinvested
on their ex-dividend date. The HRG opening share price on 12 October 2006 was
97.5p; the closing share price on 31 March 2008 was 40p.
Value pence
HRG FTSE 350 Support Services Source: [Datastream]
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
IPO
12 October 
2006
31 March
2007
30 September
2007
31 March
2008 REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
34 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
Awards subject to TSR targets will vest in full in the event the TSR
of the Company over the performance period exceeds the upper
quintile TSR of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support Services
Index. In the event of the Company’s TSR performance equaling
the median of the index, 25% of the TSR based award will vest,
with vesting calculated on a straight line basis between these
two points.
Awards subject to EPS targets will vest in full in the event the
Company’s EPS increases by 15% above the percentage change
in the RPI over the performance period. In the event the
Company’s EPS increases by 5% per annum above the
percentage change in the RPI, 25% of the EPS based award will
vest, with vesting calculated on a straight line basis between
these two points.
In establishing the Company’s Share Incentive Schemes, the
Company received advice from Kepler Associates as to the
appropriate structure of the schemes and the size of grants to
be made to participants. The Company’s initial policy as to the
granting of awards under the PSP Scheme and the CSOP
Scheme was set out in the prospectus at the time of the IPO.
Prior to making any award under either the PSP or the CSOP , the
Remuneration Committee seeks further advice from Kepler
Associates to confirm that the policy remains appropriate to the
Company’s circumstances and the remuneration objectives as
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Sharesave Scheme
As noted in last year’s report, options were granted to employees
who had applied to subscribe for a total of 4,879,250 shares under
the Sharesave Scheme and the relevant savings contracts all
commenced on 1 April 2007. The Directors are contemplating
making a further award available under the Sharesave Scheme to
employees in general, although it is not presently anticipated that a
discount would be offered if the share price were to remain broadly
unchanged from present levels prior to the making of such an offer.
Policy on satisfying awards under the PSP and CSOP
Since the IPO in October 2006, the Company’s policy for
satisfying awards made under the CSOP has been that shares
arising from the vesting of such awards would be satisfied by
new issue shares. In view of the presently anticipated vesting of
awards made under the CSOP in December 2006 and August
2007, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this policy
with Kepler Associates and has determined that it is appropriate
to change that policy so that shares arising from such awards be
satisfied by market purchase shares to the extent that such
shares vest in due course. The Company also intends to structure
future awards under the CSOP as equity settled stock
appreciation rights (SARs) to optimise the use of the Company’s
dilution headroom. The effect of this change of policy is that the
presently anticipated dilution effect of CSOP awards made to
date is reduced from 2.45% to 0.14%. The Company has made no
change to its policy for satisfying awards made under the PSP .
The Directors’ interests in the PSP Scheme, the CSOP Scheme
and the Sharesave Scheme are set out in Table 3.
AUDITED PART
Companies Act disclosure requirements
The disclosure required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 is contained within the following tables:
Table 1: Directors’ emoluments Salaries and Compensation Year to Year to 
Pension Value of for loss 31 March 2008 31 March 2007
supplement benefits of office Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
J D Coombe (Chairman) 125 – – 125 125
D J C Radcliffe 397 33 – 430 465
J F W Kennerley (resigned 21 December 2007)
(i)
213 21 395 629 354
J A Steadman (appointed 21 December 2007)
(ii)
101–– 101 –
G W Battersby (appointed 11 September 2006) 35 – – 35 19
A E Isaac (appointed 11 September 2006) 40 – – 40 22
R K Bacher (resigned 11 September 2006) – – – – 95
Dr N C Bain (resigned 11 September 2006) – – – – 23
W F Brindle (resigned 11 September 2006)
(i)
––– – 100
C P Fry (resigned 11 September 2006) – – – – 118
M C Garland (resigned 11 September 2006) – – – – –
K A Ruffles (resigned 11 September 2006) – – – – 106
911 54 395 1,360 1,427
Notes to Table 1:
(i) In respect of Messrs Kennerley and Brindle (who were otherwise limited as to the level of their potential pension), they received an additional non-pensionable
supplement representing a fixed 18% of their salary (22% if their normal retirement age is 60) insofar as their salaries exceeded the permitted maximum by reference
to which pensions could be calculated under the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. These supplements are reflected in the amounts stated in Table 1.
(ii) Julian Steadman has a direct contribution arrangement under which he receives a non-pensionable payment of 30% of his base salary. This payment is reflected in
the amounts stated in Table 1.
(iii) The amounts of remuneration above refer to the periods of time during which the Directors held office. Dr Bain, Messrs Bacher, Brindle, Fry and Ruffles resigned as
Directors at the time of the Company’s IPO, but, with the exception of Dr Bain, continued to act as employees of the company after their resignation as Directors.
No payments were made to any of these employees in connection with such resignations. HRG Annual Report 2008 35
Table 2: Directors’ pensions
The following Directors received entitlement to defined benefit pension benefits during the year:
Transfer value 
Transfer Accrued Accrued Increase in of increase in 
value at benefits entitlement Transfer value transfer value Accrued accrued benefits 
start of earned in at the end at the end less Directors’ benefits net of less Directors’
period the period of the period of the period contributions inflation contributions
Age £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
D J C Radcliffe 55 3,861 53 246 3,654 (227) 48 765
J F W Kennerley
(resigned 21 December 2007) 59 190 2 17 299 104 1 24
4,051 55 263 3,953 (123) 49 789
Notes to Table 2:
(i) All Directors shown above were members of the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (the Scheme).
(ii) As noted earlier in the Remuneration Report, with effect from 8 April 2008, the Company consented to David Radcliffe’s withdrawal from the Scheme, reflecting the fact
that he has exceeded the maximum capped entitlement under recent pensions legislation. Thereafter, David Radcliffe’s pension entitlement has been replaced with a
direct contribution arrangement under which a non-pensionable payment is made equal to 22% of his base salary.
Table 3: The interests of Directors and Key Management in long term incentive schemes and share options
The interests of the Executive Directors in the PSP , CSOP and the Sharesave Scheme are set out in the following table:
Date of Earliest Granted Number at Number at 
grant exercise date Expiry date Exercise price in year 31 March 2008 1 April 2007
D J C Radcliffe
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – – 206,434 206,434
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p – 424,696 424,696
Sharesave (5 year) 16.02.07 01.04.12 30.09.12 82.0p – 19,969 19,969
PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 – 212,733 212,733 –
CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66.0p 425,465 425,465 –
638,198 1,289,297 651,099
J F W Kennerley
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – – 131,367 131,367
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p – 270,261 270,261
Sharesave (5 year) 16.02.07 01.04.12 30.09.12 82.0p – 19,969 19,969
– 421,597 421,597
J A Steadman
PSP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.06.11 – 420,993 420,993 –
CSOP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.12.17 59.0p 440,443 440,443 –
861,436 861,436 –
Key management 
(v)
PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 – – 752,495 752,495
CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96.0p – 1,548,100 1,548,100
Sharesave (3 and 5 year) 16.02.07 01.04.12 30.09.12 82.0p – 75,424 75,424
PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 – 775,453 775,453 –
CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66.0p 1,550,906 1,550,906 –
2,326,359 4,702,378 2,376,019
Notes to Table 3:
(i) No other Directors have been granted share options in the shares of the Group. None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year.
All options were granted in respect of qualifying services
(ii) The options were granted at nil cost to the Directors and were in respect of past performance.
(iii) No options were exercised or lapsed during the year.
(iv) The market price of the Group’s shares at the end of the financial year was 40.0p and the range of the market prices during the year following the date of grant was
between 40.0p and 104.0p.
(v) Key management comprise the Executive Management Team as shown on page 23. REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
36 HRG Annual Report 2008
Our responsibilities...
Table 4: Directors’ share interests
Other than as noted in Table 3 above, the interests of the Directors and Key Management in Hogg Robinson Group plc’s Shares are
set out in the following table:
Ordinary Ordinary
shares shares
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Number Number
Current Directors:
J D Coombe 318,269 111,111
D J C Radcliffe 1,705,500 1,650,500
J A Steadman (appointed 21 December 2007) 150,000 –
G W Battersby 103,333 33,333
A E Isaac 33,333 33,333
Previous directors:
J F W Kennerley (resigned 21 December 2007) 683,298 633,298
Key management 1,498,499 1,870,386
4,492,232 4,331,961
Notes to Table 4:
(i) The Directors’ interests as at 27 May 2008 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report and a date no more than one month prior to the date of the
notice convening the AGM), were the same as at 31 March 2008.
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
3 June 2008 The facts and figures...
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HRG Annual Report 2008 37 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Consolidated and
the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
have prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration
Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). The Consolidated and Parent Company
Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Directors are required to:
(a) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
(b) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
(c) state that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with
regard to the Parent Company Financial Statements that
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the Consolidated or Parent Company Financial Statements;
(d) prepare the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial
Statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in
business, in which case there should be supporting
assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the
above requirements in preparing the Consolidated and
Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable
them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation and the Parent Company Financial Statements and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
By Order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
3 June 2008 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
38 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Hogg
Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and
the related notes. These Consolidated financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the Combined Code (2006) specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the
Directors’Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Review, the Financial Review, the Remuneration Report and the
Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made
by the Directors in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2008
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
– the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
– the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent
with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
3 June 2008 
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Consolidated
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
HRG Annual Report 2008 39 Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations 
Revenue 3 332,194 311,388
Operating expenses 4 (296,200) (276,008)
Operating profit 35,994 35,380
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 34,785 38,999
Exceptional items 4 1,209 (3,619)
Operating profit 35,994 35,380
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 13 138 404
Finance income 6 1,534 1,255
Finance costs 6 (12,439) (24,160)
Profit before tax 25,227 12,879
Income taxes 7 (7,713) (3,087)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 17,514 9,792
Discontinued operations 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 8 – 4,870
Profit for the year 17,514 14,662
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent 16,673 13,436
Minority interests 26 841 1,226
17,514 14,662
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
Notes pence pence
Earnings per share 9
Continuing operations, basic 5.5 4.3
Continuing operations, diluted 5.4 4.3
Discontinued operations, basic – 2.4
Discontinued operations, diluted – 2.4
Total, basic 5.5 6.7
Total, diluted 5.4 6.7
The notes on pages 44 to 88 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
40 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
Notes £’000 £’000
Non current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 11 231,352 219,670
Property, plant and equipment 12 12,634 10,864
Investments accounted for using the equity method 13 2,811 3,296
Trade and other receivables 16 429 545
Deferred tax assets 22 31,562 37,775
278,788 272,150
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 123,762 107,938
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 17 250 301
Current tax assets 447 81
Cash and cash equivalent assets 18 49,637 61,336
174,096 169,656
Total assets 3 452,884 441,806
Non current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 19 (155,032) (160,392)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (2,806) (3,795)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (48,080) (59,932)
Provisions 21 (3,279) –
(209,197) (224,119)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 19 (3,146) (2,998)
Current tax liabilities (8,664) (8,458)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 17 (1,271) (8)
Trade and other payables 20 (179,496) (161,788)
Provisions 21 (1,137) (3,504)
(193,714) (176,756)
Total liabilities (402,911) (400,875)
Net assets 49,973 40,931
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 24 3,068 3,056
Share premium 24 171,942 171,289
Other reserves 25 5,256 1,253
Retained earnings 25 (132,833) (137,605)
47,433 37,993
Minority interests 26 2,540 2,938
Total equity 49,973 40,931
For details of the restatement for 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
The notes on pages 44 to 88 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements on pages 40 to 88 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 41 Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
Notes £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions 31 40,064 37,852
Pension contributions following IPO 23 – (25,000)
Other pension contributions in respect of deferred pensioners 23 – (16,031)
Interest paid (11,455) (14,988)
Tax paid (6,041) (3,036)
Cash flows from operating activities – net 22,568 (21,203)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 27 (4,282) (8,782)
Acquisition of associates, joint ventures and other investments 13 – (1,253)
Disposals of subsidiaries 8 46 3,165
Disposals of associates, joint ventures and other investments 13 705 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,937) (4,530)
Purchase of intangible assets (2,920) (2,573)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 22 167
Interest received 1,517 1,295
Dividend received from associates and joint ventures 179 202
Cash flows from investing activities – net (9,670) (12,309)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (41,558) (297,897)
New borrowings 29,048 164,051
Issue costs of new borrowings (65) (2,549)
Cash effect of currency swaps (3,412) 1,654
Issue of shares 24 – 180,160
Issue of share warrants 24 – 88
Issue costs of shares 24 (110) (18,682)
Purchase of treasury shares 24,25 (1,600) –
Dividends paid to external shareholders (11,600) –
Dividends paid to minority interests (1,348) (736)
Cash flows generated from financing activities – net (30,645) 26,089
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (17,747) (7,423)
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (17,747) (7,423)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 60,124 68,577
Exchange rate effects 6,155 (1,030)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 48,532 60,124
Cash and cash equivalent assets 18 49,637 61,336
Overdrafts 19 (1,105) (1,212)
48,532 60,124
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been restated to reflect reclassification
of foreign exchange movements and the cash effect of currency swaps between cash flows from operating activities, cash flows from
financing activities and the reconciliation between opening and closing cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts to more fairly reflect
cash flows from operating activities.
The notes on pages 44 to 88 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
42 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000
Profit for the year 17,514 14,662
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Currency translation differences 25 3,300 (99)
Actuarial gain 23 5,120 12,516
Deferred tax movement on pension liability (1,587) (3,788)
Net impact of tax rate change on deferred tax assets/liabilities 22 (1,609) –
5,224 8,629
Total recognised income and expense 22,738 23,291
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 21,897 22,065
Minority interests 26 841 1,226
22,738 23,291
The notes on pages 44 to 88 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 43 Basis of preparation: International Financial Reporting Standards
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union,
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
(IFRIC) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the IFRS financial statements requires the
use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the period. Although these estimates
are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount,
event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from
those estimates, as noted in the key management judgements
policy on page 50.
Basis of accounting
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared
on a going concern basis.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on
the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain
financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years
presented. No changes have been made to the accounting
policies by comparison with those applied in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2007.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008
The following standards, amendments to standards and
interpretations to existing standards are mandatory for the first
time for the year ending 31 March 2008:
– IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary
amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements –
Capital disclosures, introduces new disclosures relating to financial
instruments and does not have any impact on the classification
and valuation of the Group’s financial instruments, or the
disclosures relating to taxation and trade and other payables.
– IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires consideration of transactions
involving the issuance of equity instruments, where the
identifiable consideration received is less than the fair value of
the equity instruments issued in order to establish whether or
not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2. This standard has not
had any impact on the recognition of share-based incentives
in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives. This
interpretation has not had a significant impact on the
reassessment of embedded derivatives as the Group already
assessed if embedded derivatives should be separated using
principles consistent with IFRIC 9.
– IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits
the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on
goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in
financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent
balance sheet date. This standard does not have any impact
on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions,
provides guidance on whether share-based transactions
involving treasury shares or involving Group entities (for
example, options over a parent’s shares) should be accounted
for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based incentive
transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and
Group companies. This interpretation results in no change
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective
and which have not been early adopted by the Group
The following standards, amendments and interpretations
have been published but are not effective for the year ending
31 March 2008 and have not been early adopted:
– IFRIC 14, IAS 19 addresses the limit on a defined benefit asset,
minimum funding requirements and their interaction
(effective from 1 January 2008) and provides guidance on
assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that
can be recognised as an asset. It also explains how the
pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or
contractual minimum funding requirement. The Group will
apply IFRIC 14 from 1 April 2008, but it is not expected to have
any impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IAS 23 (Amendment), Borrowing costs (effective from 
1 January 2009). The amendment to the standard, still subject
to endorsement by the European Union (EU), requires an
entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
(one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for
use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option of
immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be
removed. The Group will apply IAS 23 (Amended) from 1 April
2009, subject to endorsement by the EU but is currently not
applicable to the Group as there are no qualifying assets.
– IAS 27 (Revised), Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements was issued on 10 January 2008 and is subject to
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
44 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
1 General information and accounting policies HRG Annual Report 2008 45
EU endorsement. The revised standard is effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. The impact of
adopting IAS 27 (Revised) in future periods is under assessment. 
– IFRS 3 (Revised), Business Combinations was issued on 10
January 2008 and is subject to EU endorsement. It is
applicable to business combinations effected on or after
1 January 2010, with earlier application permitted. The
impact of adopting IFRS 3 (Revised) in future periods will be
considered in the event of a future business combination. 
– IFRS 8, Operating segments (effective from 1 January 2009)
replaces IAS 14, Segment reporting, and aligns segment
reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131,
Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related
information. The new standard requires a management
approach under which segment information is presented on
the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group expects to apply IRFS 8 from 1 April 2009.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following
amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods,
which were also in issue but not effective at the date of
authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material
impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements:
– IAS 1 (Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements,
effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement.
– IAS 32 (Amendment), Financial Instruments: Presentation and
IAS 1 (Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements,
effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement.
– IFRS 2 (Amendment), Share Based Payment – Vesting
Conditions and Cancellations, effective from 1 January 2009,
subject to EU endorsement.
– IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements, effective for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
– IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008. 
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results and
net assets of Hogg Robinson Group plc, the Company, and its
subsidiaries. Together these form the Group.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities in which the Group has the power to
govern the financial and operating activities, generally
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the
voting rights. Subsidiary companies have been consolidated
from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
The cost of acquisition of subsidiaries is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over fair
value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of newly acquired subsidiaries have been
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies
adopted by the Group.
Transactions with minority interests
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority
interests as transactions with third parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the
Group that are recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in changes to goodwill,
where there is a difference between consideration paid and the
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of
the subsidiary.
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are entities, other than subsidiaries, in which
the Group shares control as a party to a contract. Associates
are entities, other than subsidiaries or joint ventures, in which
the Group has the power to participate in the financial and
policy decisions.
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures is
included in the Consolidated Income Statement. Investments in
associates and joint ventures are included in the Balance Sheet at
cost adjusted by subsequent share of profits or losses, dividends
received and any impairment. When the Group’s share of losses
in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in it,
the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the
associate or joint venture.
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations
engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and
returns that are different from those of other business segments.
1 General information and accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
46 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
The Group reports its results on the basis of one business
segment, which is business services in the corporate travel
market, ‘Business Travel’ .
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services
within a particular economic environment that are subject to
risks and returns which are different from those of segments
operating in other economic environments. The Group presents
its results on the basis of three geographic segments, Europe,
North America and Asia Pacific (AsPac). In the prior year
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group disclosed a
‘Central’ segment which included revenue from global marketing
agreements and distribution and system usage agreements
with suppliers, and expenses associated with Group functions.
In the current year, a methodology has been introduced to
allocate Group revenue, costs and assets to the geographical
segments to which they relate.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for
goods and services provided in the normal course of business,
net of discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales
related taxes. Revenue does not include transactions entered
into by Group clients for which the Group acts as agent.
Revenue represents service fees earned from clients as well as
revenue and commissions from suppliers.
Client service fees are earned by charging a transaction or
management fee for airline or other transactions, based on
contractual agreements with travel clients. Transaction
revenue is recognised at the time of ticketing of the travel
arrangement with the exception of hotel related income,
which is recognised at the time of stay. Management fees
are recognised over the period of time that the service is
provided to the client.
Supplier revenues are earned under sales and marketing
agreements, incentive arrangements and distribution and
system usage agreements. In such cases, revenue is measured at
each balance sheet date as total anticipated income multiplied
by the percentage stage of completion of the contract.
In certain circumstances, suppliers pay commission on airline
tickets issued. This revenue is recognised at the time a ticket is
purchased.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are measured
at their fair value at the balance sheet date and compared to
the liabilities of those schemes at the same date, measured on
an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method. The
discount rate used is the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
Costs of defined benefit pension schemes arising from employee
service in the current period are charged to operating expenses.
The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities
relating to employee service in prior periods but arising in the
current period as a result of benefit improvements is charged to
operating expenses over the period during which such
improvements vest. The expected return on the schemes’
assets and the increase during the period in the present value
of the schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage of time are
included in other finance income. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits may be payable when employment is
terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date,
or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in
exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination
benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either
terminating the employment of current employees according
to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or
providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to
encourage voluntary redundancy.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses
based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit and
cash flows attributable to the Company’s shareholders after
certain adjustments.
Share-based incentives
The Group operates several equity-settled share-based
incentive schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards
is calculated at grant date and is recognised as an expense
over the vesting period. For awards with vesting conditions
based on market conditions (particularly, those based on total
shareholder return compared with external benchmarks), the
likelihood of vesting is assessed at the date of grant and is not
subsequently amended in arriving at the expense for each year
in the vesting period. All other awards are re-assessed at each
balance sheet date, with the expense recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement, including the impact of
changes of previous estimates of the likelihood of vesting.
The total expense for the year gives rise to a corresponding
credit to equity.
1 General information and accounting policies continued HRG Annual Report 2008 47
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those significant items which due to their
size and nature are separately disclosed to provide a full
understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the surplus of the purchase consideration
over the Group’s share of the fair value of the separable net
assets of the subsidiary or associate acquired. Goodwill on
acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in ‘investments
accounted for using the equity method’ and is tested for
impairment as part of the Group’s total goodwill. Separately
recognised goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in operating expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The review of impairment includes examination of anticipated
cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill
relates. Cash generating units are determined by country.
Goodwill is written down to its estimated recoverable amount,
being the higher of:
– fair value, the amount obtainable from sale on an arm’s length
basis, less the costs of disposal;
– the value in use, the net present value of future cash flows
expected to be generated from the business.
When a business is disposed of the carrying amount of
goodwill applicable is taken into account in determining the
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to
IFRS, 1 April 2003, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without
physical substance. They are stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment. Cost includes third party
purchases, the directly attributable costs of internally generated
assets and the fair value of identifiable intangible assets arising
on acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2003.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of all intangible assets, less
the estimated residual value, using the straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives as follows:
Computer software and intellectual property 3-10 years
Client relationships in acquired businesses 10 years
Amortisation is charged to operating expenses in the
Consolidated Income Statement.
Computer software includes the cost of internally generated
software which is capitalised when it is probable that economic
benefits will flow to the Group from the asset being developed,
and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical
feasibility can be demonstrated. Capitalisation ceases when the
asset being developed is ready for use.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment. Cost is defined as expenditure
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of all property, plant and
equipment, less the estimated residual value, using the straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Long-term leaseholds 50 years
Short-term leasehold premiums and
structural leasehold improvements the lease term
IT and office equipment 2-7 years
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following
categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and
receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for which
the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the
classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss –
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are
financial instruments held for trading. A financial instrument
1 General information and accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
48 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose
of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised
as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Financial instruments in this category are classified as current
assets or liabilities.
Loans and receivables – Loans and receivables are non-
derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments
that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in
current assets, except where expected maturity is greater than
twelve months after the balance sheet date which are classified
as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables
comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash
equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised
on the trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to
purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at
fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried
at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair
value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value
and transaction costs are expensed in the Consolidated Income
Statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to
receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have
been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all
risks and rewards of ownership. Loans and receivables are carried
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are
presented in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period
in which they arise.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or
delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue) are
considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the
use of a provision account, and the amount of the loss is
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. When a
trade receivable is not collectible, it is written off against the
provision account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries
of amounts previously written off are credited to the
Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the
balance sheet date. Currency swaps are stated at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Exchange movements on foreign
currency borrowings are taken to reserves to the extent that the
borrowing is in the functional currency of the obligor and to the
Consolidated Income Statement to the extent it is not. Changes in
the fair value of currency swaps are taken to the Consolidated
Income Statement. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in
the year in which they are incurred. Debt issue costs are amortised
proportionally over the anticipated life of the relevant debt facility.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of
its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Other financial instruments are stated at fair value with differences
on valuation taken to the Consolidated Income Statement or to
reserves if hedge accounting has been established for the
particular instrument. These include interest rate caps and
amounts receivable or payable in foreign currency together with
the forward foreign currency exchange contracts used to fix their
value. Fair values are derived from published financial data.
Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
each of the functional Group’s subsidiaries and interests in joint
ventures and associates are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the entity operates 
(the functional currency). The Consolidated Financial Statements
are presented in sterling which is the Company’s functional and
presentational currency.
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency of the relevant entity using the exchange rates prevailing
at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the
translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in equity as
qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges.
1 General information and accounting policies continued HRG Annual Report 2008 49
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures
and associates in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
results of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation at closing rates
of net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates,
together with those on foreign currency loans which finance
them, are taken to reserves and reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected
to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of
transition to IFRS (1 April 2003) as a sterling denominated asset.
Leasing
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Other leases are
classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are
included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated
over the shorter of the lease term or its useful economic life. Lease
obligations are stated net of finance charges attributable to future
periods. Finance costs are allocated over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals, net of any incentives received from the
lessor, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over
the life of the lease.
Taxation
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates the positions taken in tax
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax
regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using
tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s Shareholders is
recognised as a liability in the Group’s Consolidated Financial
Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by
the Company’s Shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be necessary to settle the
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions
for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a
detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement,
cash and cash equivalents includes bank balances and
deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
It also includes overdrafts which form an integral part of the
Group’s cash management and are likely to fluctuate from
overdrawn to positive balances.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Treasury shares
Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored
Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of
shares in the Company remain deducted from Shareholders’
funds until they vest unconditionally with employees.
1 General information and accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
50 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
1 General information and accounting policies continued
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations are entities which have been disposed
of and which represent a separate major line of business or
geographical area of operations.
Critical accounting estimates and key management judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.
The principal management judgements made in the preparation
of these Consolidated Financial Statements are:
– the assessment of the impairment of goodwill at each balance
sheet date (see note 11). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by each business in the Group;
– the evaluation of retirement benefit obligations. This depends
on the actuarial assumptions set out in note 23, including
estimates of future returns on scheme assets;
– the evaluation of the recoverability of deferred tax assets
(see note 22), which depends on the assessment of the
probability that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable
profits available in future against which to realise them;
– the valuation of client relationships for intangible assets at
acquisition (see note 11). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by existing clients at acquisition; and
– within revenue there are key judgements made by management
in terms of revenue recognition. The Group uses a percentage of
completion method to measure supplier revenues earned under
sales and marketing agreements, incentive arrangements, and
distribution and usage agreements.
2 Financial risk management
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks:
credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including currency risk
and interest rate risk).
Risk management policy
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge
certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury
department (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the
Board of Directors. Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and
hedges financial risks.
The Group’s treasury policy and foreign exchange risk
management policy includes avoiding transactions of a
speculative nature.
The Group arranges central borrowings facilities and maintains
local banking relationships to enable it to meet payment
obligations as they fall due, taking into account information
from its cash forecasts and business plans. The amounts of
unused borrowing facilities are set out in note 19.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash,
trade and other receivables and investments, which represent
the Group’s potential exposure to credit risk.
The maximum exposure of the Group to credit risk is
£151,263,000 (2007: £149,490,000), being the total of all financial
assets as at the year end. There is no collateral held as security or
other credit enhancement in respect of these assets.
Credit risk on trade debtors and other receivables
The Group’s policy is to assess the status of its clients before
accepting any credit exposure and to monitor the credit-worthiness
of its existing clients on a regular basis. This policy has been applied
throughout the period covered by these Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Group has no significant concentration of credit
risk, with exposure spread over a large number of clients. HRG Annual Report 2008 51
Trade debtors and other receivables include amounts arising on
the settlement of transactions entered into by the Group’s clients
with respect to which the Group is acting as agent. These
balances are generally due for settlement within one month or
less of ticketing of the transaction, frequently with mechanisms
of automated payments (for example, direct debits or the
charging of amounts due to credit card operators). In some cases
the terms of payments provide for the Group to receive penalty
interest on late settlements.
Credit risk on cash, cash equivalent assets and
derivative financial instruments
The credit risk in respect of cash, cash equivalent assets and
derivative financial instruments is limited; the Group’s policy is to
require that its clearing bankers and other deposit institutions
have high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating
agencies. This policy has been applied throughout the period
covered by these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient
cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding
through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and
the ability to close out market positions. Due to the nature of the
underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility
in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. The
Group maintains a £220,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility which is committed to 1 September 2011, as its principal
source of liquidity.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and net-
settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet
to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the
table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due
within 12 months equal their carrying value as the impact of
discounting is not significant:
Market risk: foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures
predominantly related to countries of operation; the most
important relate to the Euro, Swiss Franc, US Dollar and Canadian
Dollar. The exchange risks therefore arise mainly from earnings
translation and net investment in non-UK operations; transaction
exposure is modest, with most transactions denominated in the
currency of the country of operation.
Hedging policies are followed to protect the net assets and
earnings of the Group. Net assets denominated other than in
sterling are limited by arranging both external debt and
intragroup debt in the currencies in which assets are held. In
the case of intragroup debt the currency receivable in a UK
entity is hedged back to sterling to achieve a non-sterling
liability on a consolidated basis. Opportunities to protect the
sterling value of non-sterling earnings through derivative
transactions are regularly reviewed. Where transaction exposures
arise they may be hedged to local functional currency either
on a forecast basis where transactions are regular and
predictable or when the transaction becomes certain.
For the year ending 31 March 2008, if the average value of
sterling had been 5% higher or lower relative to other currencies
than actual, the profit before tax of the Group would have been
increased or reduced by £416,000 compared to the actual result
(2007: £530,000).
2 Financial risk management continued
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2008
Borrowings (including future interest payments) (13,147) (8,537) (167,751) –
Derivative financial instruments (1,271) – – –
Trade and other payables (179,496) – – –
At 31 March 2007
Borrowings (including future interest payments) (12,954) (10,139) (184,595) –
Derivative financial instruments (8) – – –
Trade and other payables (161,788) – – – NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
52 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
As at 31 March 2008, if the value of sterling had been 5%
higher or lower relative to other currencies the impact on equity
would be a movement of £1,804,000 (2007: £2,886,000) mainly
arising on foreign currency exchange gains or losses on
translation of net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures.
Market risk: interest rates
Where appropriate the Group considers the use of interest rate
caps to limit its exposure to interest rates on its core borrowings.
At present the interest rates on core borrowings are not capped.
For the year ended 31 March 2008, if interest rates in all
currencies in which the Group has borrowings had been higher
or lower by 1%, net interest cost would have been increased or
reduced by £1,365,000 (2007: £1,492,000).
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern while
providing adequate returns for Shareholders and benefits for
other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure to
optimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group
may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return
capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce
debt. It may also increase debt provided that the funded venture
provides adequate returns so that the overall capital structure
remains supportable.
The Group uses an operational gearing ratio to manage net debt
to ensure that covenants within banking arrangements are
complied with.
2 Financial risk management continued
The operational gearing ratios at 31 March 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Total borrowings (note 19) 160,079 165,725
Less: cash and cash equivalent assets (note 18) (49,637) (61,336)
Net debt
(1)
110,442 104,389
EBITDA
(2)
44,683 48,479
Operational gearing ratio 2.5 2.2
(1)
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet but
excluding unamortised loan issue costs) less cash and cash equivalent assets.
(2)
Earnings from continuing operations before exceptional items, including the Group’s after tax share of results of associates and joint
ventures, but before net finance costs, income taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment. 3 Business and geographical segments
Business segmentation
All revenue, operating profit for the year, assets and liabilities, capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation from continuing
operations is derived from one primary segment, Business Travel.
Geographical segmentation
Segment information is provided for regions reflecting the principal economic environments in which the Group operates.
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
External revenue from clients by origin (where the Group entity is located)
Europe 247,743 241,012
North America 65,310 56,280
AsPac 19,141 14,096
332,194 311,388
External revenue from clients by geographical area (where the client is located)
Europe 247,076 242,819
North America 65,720 56,159
AsPac 19,398 12,410
332,194 311,388
External revenue has been restated in the year ended 31 March 2007 to reflect the reclassification
of central revenue among the three geographical segments
Operating profit/(loss)
Europe 36,208 33,687
North America (1,315) 1,840
AsPac 1,101 (147)
35,994 35,380
Operating profit/(loss) excluding exceptional items
Europe 32,579 36,556
North America 1,105 2,480
AsPac 1,101 (37)
34,785 38,999
HRG Annual Report 2008 53 3 Business and geographical segments continued
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Total assets by geographical location
Europe 275,032 254,485
North America 80,277 75,422
AsPac 15,929 12,707
371,238 342,614
Cash and cash equivalent assets 49,637 61,336
Current tax assets 447 81
Deferred tax assets 31,562 37,775
452,884 441,806
For details of the restatement of total assets for 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure by geographical location
Europe 5,932 5,307
North America 1,552 1,754
AsPac 813 566
8,297 7,627
AsPac refers to the Asia Pacific region.
4 Operating expenses
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Staff costs (note 5) 192,674 172,402
Amortisation of client relationships 2,799 2,582
Amortisation of other intangible assets 2,603 2,141
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,361 4,355
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1,470 1,167
Operating lease rentals – buildings 13,102 12,518
Operating lease rentals – other assets 2,631 2,438
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 139 39
Other expenses 76,421 78,366
296,200 276,008
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
54 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 4 Operating expenses continued
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Exceptional items:
Settlement of arbitration net of costs (4,456) –
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (note 7) 827 2,929
Irrecoverable costs of a long-standing contract 2,420 –
Rebranding costs – 2,672
IPO costs charged in operating results (note 24) – 4,016
Pension past service credit – defined benefit schemes (note 23) – (6,298)
Pension past service charge – defined contribution schemes – 300
Exceptional (credit)/charge (1,209) 3,619
Operating expenses 297,409 272,389
Total operating expenses 296,200 276,008
The settlement of arbitration net of costs is with regard to a claim against Kuoni Reisen Holding AG, former owners of companies
acquired by the Group, for a breach of the relevant sale and purchase agreement. Tax expense in respect of this was £nil.
An exceptional accrual of £2,420,000 has been made to cover estimated irrecoverable amounts under a long-standing contract in
North America.
Rebranding costs were incurred as a result of the Group rebranding itself under the HRG name during the year ended 31 March 2007.
IPO refers to the Initial Public Offering in relation to the Group’s global offer and admission to the Official List of the Financial Services
Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange during the year ended 31 March 2007.
The pension past service credit on defined benefit schemes in the year ended 31 March 2007 related to an actuarial gain on the settlement
of transfer values to deferred members of the UK Scheme of £5,019,000 and a settlement of pension liabilities in Norway of £1,279,000.
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Charged to operating expenses:
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 338 300
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,132 867
Other services provided to comply with legislation 186 2,575
Services related to taxation 518 369
Services relating to recruitment and remuneration 3 55
Services relating to corporate finance transactions – 2
All other services 103 2
2,280 4,170
Capitalised on acquisition:
Services relating to corporate finance transactions 52 277
52 277
Charged to equity:
Other services provided to comply with legislation – 4,339
– 4,339
HRG Annual Report 2008 55 4 Operating expenses continued
Other services provided by PwC to comply with legislation include services in respect of the IPO at a cost of £nil (2007: £6,629,000),
half year review fees of £186,000 (2007: £272,000) and other fees of £nil (2007: £13,000).
In addition to the above services, the Company’s auditor acted as auditor to the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. The appointment
of auditors to the Group’s pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of that audit are agreed by the Trustees of the scheme, who act
independently from the management of the Group. The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditor for audit services to the pension
scheme during the year were £18,000 (2007: £19,000).
5 Staff costs
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Salaries 161,812 149,063
Social security costs 20,084 18,459
Pension costs 7,451 3,285
Redundancy and termination costs 2,624 1,451
Share-based incentives 703 144
192,674 172,402
Pension costs comprise:
Defined benefit schemes (note 23) 3,883 3,921
Defined contribution schemes 5,094 5,362
Exceptional pension credit (1,526) –
Pension past service credit
– defined benefit schemes (note 23) – (6,298)
Pension past service charge
– defined contribution schemes – 300
7,451 3,285
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
number number
Average number of staff:
Business Travel 6,047 6,206
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
56 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 6 Finance income and finance costs
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Finance income 1,534 1,255
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (11,373) (14,451)
Amortisation of issue costs on bank loans (498) (2,524)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (14) (14)
Premium on preference shares – (4,889)
Expected return on pension scheme assets less
interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (440) (1,985)
Other finance charges (114) (297)
Finance costs (12,439) (24,160)
Net finance costs (10,905) (22,905)
7 Income taxes
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current tax:
Tax on profits of the year 4,326 4,558
Adjustments in respect of previous years 628 (502)
Total current tax 4,954 4,056
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2,484 4,067
Adjustments in respect of the previous years (38) (2,107)
Net impact of rate change on deferred tax assets and liabilities (note 22) 933 –
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (note 22) (620) (2,929)
Total deferred tax 2,759 (969)
Taxation charge 7,713 3,087
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
The tax charge is split as follows:
United Kingdom 5,562 908
Overseas 2,771 5,108
Adjustment to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (620) (2,929)
Taxation charge 7,713 3,087
HRG Annual Report 2008 57 7 Income taxes continued
The tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%) (2007: 30%) as explained below:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Profit before tax:
Continuing operations 25,227 12,879
Discontinued operations – 4,870
25,227 17,749
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 7,568 5,325
Effects of:
Tax rate changes in UK and Germany 933 –
Partial recognition for deferred tax – losses 645 1,615
Partial recognition for deferred tax – other differences – (15)
Non-deductible goodwill impairment 248 879
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 539 3,058
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (620) (2,929)
Overseas tax rate differential (849) (623)
Non-taxable income (1,027) (267)
Non-taxable chargeable gain – (1,461)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 590 (2,609)
Other (314) 114
Taxation charge 7,713 3,087
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets
The Group has acquired businesses with tax losses and other deferred tax assets. These have been recognised in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on acquisition to the extent that they were expected to be realised based on information at the acquisition date.
The Group has subsequently been able to use tax losses and other assets to a greater extent than anticipated on acquisition thereby
reducing the value of goodwill. In order to comply with the requirements of IAS12, Income Taxes, a charge is reported in operating
expenses (as shown in note 4). In the year ended 31 March 2008 the charge to operating expenses is greater than the credit to
deferred tax. The charge to operating expenses of £827,000 is made at the tax rate prevailing at the time the goodwill was originally
recognised (approximately 40%), whereas the deferred tax asset of £620,000 is recognised at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet
date (approximately 30%).
The Group makes maximum use of all brought forward losses and other available reliefs in mitigating in-territory cash tax payable.
8 Discontinued operations
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Benefits and Consulting Services
Profit on disposal of Benefits and Consulting Services – 4,765
TRX Inc
Profit on disposal of investment – 105
Profit attributable to discontinued operations – 4,870
Tax expense in respect of discontinued operations was £nil (2007: £nil).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
58 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 8 Discontinued operations continued
Benefits and Consulting Services was sold on 8 July 2005. During the year ended 31 March 2007 additional contingent disposal
proceeds were received by the Group.
The contribution of the discontinued operations on the Group’s cash flows were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Proceeds on disposal of Benefits and Consulting Services – 1,484
Proceeds on disposal of TRX Inc and partial disposal of Partnership Travel Consulting Inc 46 1,681
Cash flows provided by investing activities 46 3,165
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to Shareholders by the weighted average number
of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential Ordinary shares.
The following amounts have been used in the calculation of earnings per share. The average number of shares in issue for the year
ended 31 March 2007 takes into account the exercise of warrants and the 25-for-1 bonus issue of shares which took place in October
2006 in connection with the IPO.
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of earnings per share
Profit for the year from continuing operations 17,514 9,792
Less: amount attributable to minority interest (841) (1,226)
Continuing operations 16,673 8,566
Discontinued operations (note 8) – 4,870
16,673 13,436
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
number number
000s 000s
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue
Issued (for basic EPS) 304,862 199,216
Dilutive potential Ordinary shares 1,217 185
For diluted EPS 306,079 199,401
HRG Annual Report 2008 59 10 Dividends per share
The dividends paid to the Company’s Shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2008 were:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2007 – 2.8p per share 8,558 –
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2008 – 1.2p per share 3,667 –
Total dividends (note 25) 12,225 –
Scrip dividends to the value of £625,000 in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead
of a cash payment.
A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 of 2.8p per Ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of £8,591,326, is to be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2008. These Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Goodwill 203,040 191,344
Other intangible assets 28,312 28,326
231,352 219,670
Goodwill Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Cost
At beginning of year 217,760 214,943
Acquisitions (note 27) 2,486 11,004
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (827) (2,929)
Disposals (47) (39)
Exchange differences 10,084 (5,219)
229,456 217,760
Accumulated impairment losses
At beginning of year 26,416 26,416
Impairment losses for the year – –
Disposals – –
Exchange differences – –
26,416 26,416
Carrying amount 203,040 191,344
The recoverable amount used in the assessment of goodwill for all cash generating units comprises value in use. During the year the
Group reviewed its discount rate and long term growth rates and these have been applied in the assessment. The value in use has
been calculated by discounting at 7.5% (2007: 10%) the anticipated post-tax cash flows obtained annually in the Group’s financial
forecasting processes. The forecasts are prepared taking into account historical trading performance and anticipated changes in
future market conditions. The detailed forecasts cover a period of four years from the balance sheet date; cash flows are projected
beyond that period based on anticipated long-term growth of 2% (2007: 5%).
For details of the restatement for 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
60 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill consists of the following amounts related to cash generating units of the Group in the Business Travel sector:
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
UK 58,241 56,897
Sweden 14,563 14,563
Norway 17,894 17,799
Germany 40,950 35,562
Switzerland 16,238 13,331
USA 30,390 30,851
Other 24,764 22,341
203,040 191,344
Other intangible assets Computer software
Externally
acquired Internally Client
restated generated relationships Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At cost
At 1 April 2006 9,578 3,022 27,237 39,837
Additions 1,007 1,566 – 2,573
Acquisitions through business combinations 3,426 – 1,121 4,547
Reclassification of assets – – 431 431
Disposals (23) – – (23)
Exchange differences (100) – (1,417) (1,517)
At 31 March 2007 13,888 4,588 27,372 45,848
Additions 1,432 1,488 – 2,920
Acquisitions through business combinations 9 – – 9
Disposals (16) – – (16)
Exchange differences 935 43 4,041 5,019
At 31 March 2008 16,248 6,119 31,413 53,780
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2006 6,609 1,280 5,163 13,052
Amortisation charge for the year 1,441 700 2,582 4,723
Disposals (13) – – (13)
Exchange differences (17) – (223) (240)
At 31 March 2007 8,020 1,980 7,522 17,522
Amortisation charge for the year 1,546 1,057 2,799 5,402
Disposals (16) – – (16)
Exchange differences 923 2 1,635 2,560
At 31 March 2008 10,473 3,039 11,956 25,468
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2006 2,969 1,742 22,074 26,785
At 31 March 2007 5,868 2,608 19,850 28,326
At 31 March 2008 5,775 3,080 19,457 28,312
For details of the restatement for 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
HRG Annual Report 2008 61 12 Property, plant and equipment
IT and
office
equipment Leasehold
restated properties Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At cost
At 1 April 2006 36,721 7,808 44,529
Additions 3,860 1,194 5,054
Acquisitions through business combinations 101 56 157
Disposals (1,180) (5) (1,185)
Exchange differences (1,269) (281) (1,550)
At 31 March 2007 38,233 8,772 47,005
Additions 4,182 1,195 5,377
Acquisitions through business combinations 16 – 16
Disposals (8,757) (878) (9,635)
Exchange differences 5,257 237 5,494
At 31 March 2008 38,931 9,326 48,257
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2006 29,358 4,485 33,843
Depreciation charge for the year 3,632 723 4,355
Disposals (868) (5) (873)
Exchange differences (1,046) (138) (1,184)
At 31 March 2007 31,076 5,065 36,141
Depreciation charge for the year 3,508 853 4,361
Disposals (8,320) (869) (9,189)
Exchange differences 4,166 144 4,310
At 31 March 2008 30,430 5,193 35,623
Carrying value
At 1 April 2006 7,363 3,323 10,686
At 31 March 2007 7,157 3,707 10,864
At 31 March 2008 8,501 4,133 12,634
For details of the restatement of year ended 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Contractual commitments for the acquisition of:
Property, plant and equipment 23 55
Intangible assets 29 41
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 441 331
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
62 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 13 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 3,296 4,548
Additions – 1,253
Disposal proceeds (705) –
Net share of profit for the year after tax and minority interests 138 404
Dividends (179) (320)
Reclassification of investment as a subsidiary – (2,439)
Exchange differences 261 (150)
2,811 3,296
Disposal proceeds relate to capital reimbursement from Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co., which is no
longer trading and is expected to be liquidated.
The principal associates and joint ventures are:
Country of
Proportion held
incorporation 2008 2007
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Ltd Hong Kong 51% 51%
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Ltd China 51% 51%
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co. Germany 33% 33%
Business Travel International BV Netherlands 50% 50%
Associates
Liga Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
WELT Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current assets 5,351 6,784
Long term assets 727 599
Current liabilities (4,306) (4,130)
Long term liabilities (12) (187)
Revenue 2,053 20,405
(Loss)/profit after tax (80) 263
Aggregate amounts relating to associates:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Total assets 1,843 869
Total liabilities (1,166) (639)
Revenue 1,898 1,300
Profit after tax 218 141
HRG Annual Report 2008 63 14 Financial assets – other investments
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At fair value
At beginning of year – 1,750
Acquisitions – –
Disposals – (1,713)
Change in fair value – –
Exchange differences – (37)
– –
The Group held no listed investments at 31 March 2008 (2007: £nil).
15 Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Assets at
fair value
Loans and through profit
receivables or loss Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2008
Derivative financial instruments – 250 250
Trade receivables 79,319 – 79,319
Due from joint ventures and associates 917 – 917
Other receivables 21,140 – 21,140
Cash and cash equivalent assets 49,637 – 49,637
151,013 250 151,263
Liabilities Liabilities at
measured at fair value
amortised through profit
cost or loss Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2008
Derivative financial instruments – 1,271 1,271
Borrowings 158,178 – 158,178
Trade payables 107,538 – 107,538
Due to associates and joint ventures 465 – 465
Other payables 32,269 – 32,269
298,450 1,271 299,721
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
64 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 15 Financial instruments by category continued
Assets at
fair value
Loans and through profit
receivables or loss Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2007
Derivative financial instruments – 301 301
Trade receivables 72,289 – 72,289
Due from joint ventures and associates 606 – 606
Other receivables 14,958 – 14,958
Cash and cash equivalent assets 61,336 – 61,336
149,189 301 149,490
Liabilities Liabilities at
measured at fair value
amortised through profit
cost or loss Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2007
Derivative financial instruments – 8 8
Borrowings 163,390 – 163,390
Trade payables 95,317 – 95,317
Due to associates and joint ventures 755 – 755
Other payables 32,999 – 32,999
292,461 8 292,469
At 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 no assets were subject to collateral.
16 Trade and other receivables
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables, gross 79,319 72,289
Less: provision for impairment (995) (1,381)
78,324 70,908
Due from joint ventures and associates 917 606
Other receivables 21,140 14,958
Prepayments and accrued income 23,810 22,011
124,191 108,483
Current: due within one year 123,762 107,938
Non-current: due after more than one year 429 545
124,191 108,483
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
For information regarding the restatement of year ended 31 March 2007 refer to note 27.
HRG Annual Report 2008 65 16 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables that are less than three months old but past due are generally not considered impaired. As of 31 March 2008, trade
receivables of £8,172,000 (2007: £7,746,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent customers for
whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Up to 3 months 6,461 7,008
Over 3 months 1,711 738
8,172 7,746
As of 31 March 2008, trade receivables of £1,356,000 (2007: £1,453,000) were impaired and provided for. The amount of the provision
was £995,000 as of 31 March 2008 (2007: £1,381,000). It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Up to 3 months 6 1
Over 3 months 1,350 1,452
1,356 1,453
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Sterling 37,937 35,170
Euro 35,604 32,818
Swiss franc 13,082 7,569
US dollar 6,543 6,399
Canadian dollar 7,588 5,264
Australian dollar 6,417 4,709
Other currencies 17,020 16,554
124,191 108,483
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 April 1,381 2,103
New impairment provisions in year 200 54
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (13) (446)
Unused amounts reversed (267) (309)
Exchange and other movements (306) (21)
At 31 March 995 1,381
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement (note 4). Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering
additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
66 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 17 Financial assets and liabilities – derivative financial instruments
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At fair value
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 250 248
Interest rate caps – 53
250 301
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts (1,271) (8)
Forward foreign exchange contracts consist of currency swaps, as described in note 2, together with cover obtained for known major
payments and receipts in foreign currencies. The effect of currency swaps on the exchange profile of borrowings is set out in note 19.
Interest rate caps are described in note 19.
18 Cash and cash equivalent assets
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cash balances without restrictions 49,313 61,032
Cash balances with restrictions on use by the Group 324 304
49,637 61,336
The cash balances with restrictions are held to meet specific liabilities.
Cash comprises balances held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
HRG Annual Report 2008 67 19 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At amortised cost
Current (due within one year):
Overdrafts 1,105 1,212
Bank loans 1,895 1,685
Finance leases 146 101
3,146 2,998
Non-current (due after more than one year):
Bank loans 154,741 160,139
Finance leases 291 253
155,032 160,392
158,178 163,390
Principal 160,079 165,725
Unamortised issue costs (1,901) (2,335)
158,178 163,390
Secured debt – –
Unsecured debt 158,178 163,390
158,178 163,390
The maturity of debt is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Within one year 3,146 2,998
Between one and two years 63 169
Between two and five years 154,969 160,223
Over five years – –
158,178 163,390
The fair value of borrowings approximates to book values.
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Borrowings by currency
Sterling 94,327 102,500
Euro 2,360 5,402
Swiss franc – –
Other European currencies 25,142 24,356
Canadian dollar 21,985 17,327
US dollar 11,102 11,268
Other currencies 3,262 2,537
158,178 163,390
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
68 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 19 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Effect of currency swaps
Sterling (24,484) (14,691)
Euro (5,595) 3,744
Swiss franc 18,624 –
Other European currencies 8,197 625
Canadian dollar – 3,759
US dollar 1,469 6,318
Other currencies 1,789 245
– –
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Borrowing by currency after currency swaps
Sterling 69,843 87,809
Euro (3,235) 9,146
Swiss franc 18,624 –
Other European currencies 33,339 24,981
Canadian dollar 21,985 21,086
US dollar 12,571 17,586
Other currencies 5,051 2,782
158,178 163,390
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Undrawn facilities expiring over one year from the balance sheet date 40,833 36,977
Interest rate exposure
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Floating rate 157,741 163,036
Fixed rate 437 354
158,178 163,390
Sterling floating rate overdrafts have an interest rate of 1% above the lending banks’ base rates. The majority of bank loans had an
interest rate of 1.00% to 1.15% above LIBOR during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Floating rate debt includes drawdowns for fixed periods of up to one month.
HRG Annual Report 2008 69 19 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Interest rate caps
The Group has in place interest rate caps which have the effect of limiting interest as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
Total amount (£’000) – 52,654
Average period to maturity – 0.5 years
Average interest rate – 5.1%
Finance leases
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments
Within one year 162 127
In the second to fifth years inclusive 324 263
486 390
Less: future finance charges (49) (36)
Present value of lease obligations 437 354
Amount due for settlement within twelve months 146 101
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 291 253
437 354
20 Trade and other payables
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Trade payables 107,538 95,317
Due to associates and joint ventures 465 755
Social security and payroll taxes 5,812 4,892
Other payables 32,269 32,999
Accruals and deferred income 33,412 27,825
179,496 161,788
The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
70 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 21 Provisions
Reorganisation Other Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2006 3,114 2,642 5,756
Additional provisions made in the year 2,320 484 2,804
Amounts used during the year (3,371) (46) (3,417)
Unused provisions reversed (869) (607) (1,476)
Exchange differences (103) (60) (163)
At 31 March 2007 1,091 2,413 3,504
Additional provisions made in the year 2,624 682 3,306
Amounts used during the year (2,690) (65) (2,755)
Exchange differences 112 249 361
At 31 March 2008 1,137 3,279 4,416
Current: due within one year 1,137 – 1,137
Non-current: due after more than one year – 3,279 3,279
At 31 March 2008 1,137 3,279 4,416
Reorganisation provisions represent redundancy and office closure costs in a number of Group companies and are classified as
current liabilities because they are likely to give rise to payment within one year of the balance sheet date.
Other includes provisions for onerous contracts and property dilapidations.
A provision for onerous contracts has been recognised for contracts where the expected benefits derived by the Group are lower
than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
Provision has been made for the present value of property lease commitments in respect of properties surplus to operational
requirements. Allowance has been made for anticipated sublet rental income, and costs to restore premises to their original condition
upon vacating them where such an obligation exists under the lease.
22 Deferred tax
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax assets
Temporary differences on pension accounting 11,332 16,463
Accelerated tax depreciation 3,381 2,996
Tax losses 8,814 12,791
Other temporary differences 10,474 9,463
Set-off against liabilities (2,439) (3,938)
31,562 37,775
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation (447) (595)
Other temporary differences (4,798) (7,138)
Set-off against assets 2,439 3,938
(2,806) (3,795)
HRG Annual Report 2008 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
72 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
22 Deferred tax continued
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Charge/(credit) in the Consolidated Income Statement
Accelerated tax depreciation (577) (502)
Tax losses (1,056) (6,114)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (620) (2,929)
Other temporary differences 5,012 8,576
2,759 (969)
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the generation of future taxable profits in the
relevant geographical territory:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Tax losses 15,194 17,363
Depreciation in advance of accelerated tax depreciation 548 744
Temporary difference on pension accounting 1,878 2,474
Other temporary differences 13,184 15,852
30,804 36,433
At 31 March 2008, deferred tax assets include £26,956,000 (2007: £35,062,000) arising in the UK. These assets are recognised on the
basis that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits available in the future against which to realise them.
The Finance Bill 2007 reduced the UK rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28%, effective from 1 April 2008. Based on the UK deferred
tax balances as at 31 March 2008, this has led to a reduction in deferred tax assets of £2,100,000 of which £1,609,000 is recognised in
the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and £491,000 is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Furthermore, the Corporate Tax Reform Act 2008 reduced the German corporate tax rate from 38.7% to 29.8%, effective for tax years 2008
onwards. Based on the German deferred tax balances at 31 March 2008, this has led to a reduction in deferred tax assets of £442,000,
which is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Of the total tax losses at 31 March 2008, £788,000 is scheduled to expire by 2018.
No deferred tax is recognised on the undistributed profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as they are reinvested by the
Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Since acquisition subsidiaries have made profits of
£35,500,000 (2007: £30,600,000) that have not been remitted to the Company.
23 Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit pension arrangements
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension arrangement is the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (the UK Scheme). The UK
Scheme was available to most UK employees until it was closed to new members in March 2003. Its benefits are based on final
pensionable salary. The increase in final pensionable salary since 31 March 2003 is limited to the lower of the increase in the Retail
Prices Index and 5% per annum.
The Group also operates defined benefit schemes in Norway, Switzerland, Germany and Italy. 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The following amounts have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements:
Continuing operations
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current service charge 3,883 3,921
Exceptional pension credit (1,526) –
Past service credit – (6,298)
Charge/(credit) to operating profit 2,357 (2,377)
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 14,146 13,708
Expected return on pension scheme assets (13,706) (11,723)
Charge to finance costs 440 1,985
Total charge/(credit) to income statement 2,797 (392)
The past service credit consists of the following:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Actuarial gain on settlement of transfer values to deferred members of the UK Scheme – 5,019
Settlement of pension liabilities in Norway – 1,279
– 6,298
The following amounts have been recognised as movements in equity:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Actual return on scheme assets (4,630) 15,757
Less: expected return on scheme assets (13,706) (11,723)
(18,336) 4,034
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (2,244) (3,627)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 27,196 11,734
Exchange rate movement (1,496) 375
Movement in the year 5,120 12,516
Cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense since the assumed transition date to IFRS, 1 April 2003 21,433 16,313
HRG Annual Report 2008 73 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The key assumptions used for the UK Scheme were:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007 2006
Rate of increase in salary 4.60% 4.30% 4.05%
Rate of increase in final pensionable salary 3.30% 3.00% 2.75%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued before 1999 5.00% 5.00% 5.00%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued after 1999 3.30% 3.00% 2.75%
Discount rate 6.30% 5.30% 4.90%
Inflation 3.30% 3.00% 2.75%
Expected rate of return on plan assets:
Equity instruments 8.00% 7.00% 7.00%
Debt instruments 5.30% 5.00% 4.70%
Property 8.00% 7.00% 7.00%
Other assets 5.40% 5.81% 4.73%
The expected rates of return have been set taking into account current market returns for each category of asset at the balance
sheet dates.
The mortality assumptions for the UK Scheme are based on PMA/FA92 tables with ‘medium cohort’ projections. In line with recent
trends, these assumptions have been updated from those used in the year ended 31 March 2007 which were based on PMA/FA92
tables with allowance for future improvements projected forward to 2012 for pensioners and 2027 for active and deferred members.
Life expectancy at the age of 65 is assumed to be:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
Current Pensioners
Male 22.0 19.3
Female 24.9 22.2
Future retirements
Male 22.9 20.4
Female 25.7 23.4
The UK liability is assessed with an assumption that active and deferred members will take 25% of the value of their pension as a
lump sum on retirement.
The provision included in the Group Balance Sheet arising from obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations
Unfunded schemes 7,478 6,625
Wholly or partly funded schemes 261,931 268,184
269,409 274,809
Fair value of scheme assets (221,329) (214,877)
48,080 59,932
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
74 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The net present value of defined benefit obligations has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 274,809 310,228
Current service cost 3,883 3,921
Past service credit in staff costs – (6,298)
Interest cost 14,146 13,708
Contributions by plan participants 1,529 1,567
Liabilities disposed – (73)
Actuarial gains and losses (24,952) (8,107)
Foreign currency exchange changes 5,868 (1,710)
Benefits paid (5,874) (38,427)
At end of year 269,409 274,809
The fair value of scheme assets has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At beginning of year 214,877 185,705
Expected returns on plan assets 13,706 11,723
Actuarial gains and losses (18,336) 4,034
Foreign currency exchange changes 4,372 (1,335)
Contributions by the employer 11,055 51,610
Contributions by plan participants 1,529 1,567
Benefits paid (5,874) (38,427)
At end of year 221,329 214,877
The assets held in defined benefit schemes were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Equity instruments 109,189 131,114
Debt instruments 65,020 55,268
Property 16,739 16,303
Other assets 30,381 12,192
221,329 214,877
None of the plan assets are represented by financial instruments of the Group. None of the plan assets are occupied or used by the Group.
The schedule of contributions for the UK Scheme has been agreed with the Trustees at 17% of pensionable salaries plus £6,250,000
per annum with effect from April 2006. This is expected to amount to £9,300,000 for the year ending 31 March 2009. It was intended
that the schedule of contributions will eliminate the deficit on the UK Scheme over ten years from April 2006.
HRG Annual Report 2008 75 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The obligations and assets are split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligations (235,403) (34,006) (269,409) (246,655) (28,154) (274,809)
Fair value of plan assets 196,838 24,491 221,329 195,175 19,702 214,877
Deficit (38,565) (9,515) (48,080) (51,480) (8,452) (59,932)
Five year experience
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligations (269,409) (274,809) (310,228) (309,856) (258,656)
Fair value of plan assets 221,329 214,877 185,705 158,793 137,251
Deficit (48,080) (59,932) (124,523) (151,063) (121,405)
Experience gains/(losses)
on plan liabilities (2,244) (3,627) (1,754) (2,121) 2,620
on plan assets (18,336) 4,034 22,356 5,027 15,215
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit is shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Contributions following IPO – (25,000)
Other contributions in respect of deferred pensioners – (16,031)
Other contributions less service cost (6,508) (6,539)
(6,508) (47,570)
24 Share capital, warrants and share premium account
Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
Issued and fully paid
At 1 April 305,634,011 305,634,011
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 1,199,054 –
At 31 March 306,833,065 305,634,011
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
76 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 24 Share capital, warrants and share premium account continued
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each at 1 April 3,056 3,056
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 12 –
3,068 3,056
The HRG Employee Benefit Trust acquired 3,105,661 of the Company’s Ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock
Exchange on 22 November 2007. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £1,600,000 and has been deducted from retained
earnings within Shareholders’ equity (note 25). The shares are accounted for as ‘treasury shares’ . All shares issued by the Group were
fully paid.
Share warrants
Entitlement
Book to Ordinary
value shares
£’000 number
At 1 April 2006 5,290 404,105
Issue of additional warrants 88 1,804
Exercise of warrants (5,378) (405,909)
At 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008 ––
Warrants were in issue at 1 April 2006 which allowed holders to subscribe for 405,909 ‘B’ Ordinary shares at 1 pence each at par when
a subscription event took place, which occurred in October 2006.
Share premium account
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 April 171,289 3,604
Rights issue of Ordinary shares – (1,014)
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares:
– Warrant holders – 5,378
– IPO 40 163,163
– Non-Executive Directors – 158
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of dividend 613 –
171,942 171,289
Global offer and admission to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange
The Company’s shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange on 12 October 2006.
In advance of the listing, all existing shares were re-classified as Ordinary shares. 405,909 shares were issued representing the
outstanding entitlement of all warrant holders. A bonus issue of 25 new shares for each existing share was arranged resulting in
issue of 101,400,225 shares.
Under the global offer of shares, 200,000,000 new shares were issued at a price of 90p per share. A further 177,777 shares were
issued to Non-Executive Directors at a price of 90p per share.
HRG Annual Report 2008 77 24 Share capital, warrants and share premium account continued
The net cash proceeds from the issue were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Proceeds on issue of shares – 180,160
Issue costs paid in the year (110) (18,682)
Costs of new loan facilities – (2,549)
Net (payments)/receipts in the year (110) 158,929
Accrual for future costs – (171)
Net (payments)/receipts (110) 158,758
Issue costs paid in the year ended 31 March 2008 relate to the IPO.
Funds from the issue in the year ended 31 March 2007 were used as follows:
£’000
Payment to UK Pension Scheme in respect of deferred pensioners 3,500
Other payment to UK Pension Scheme 25,000
Reduction of principal amounts of borrowings 130,429
158,929
The payment to the UK Pension Scheme consists of £25,000,000 in accordance with the funding deed agreed with the Trustees of
the Scheme in advance of the IPO plus £3,500,000 to permit deferred members to transfer their entitlement out of the Scheme on
enhanced terms.
Reduction of principal amount of borrowings includes £94,526,000 to repay Preference shares and accumulated redemption premium.
The net receipts of the issue have been accounted for as follows:
Net Proceeds Costs
£’000 £’000 £’000
Share capital 2,002 2,002 –
Share premium account 163,321 178,158 (14,837)
Operating costs (4,016) – (4,016)
Deducted from debt principal (2,549) – (2,549)
158,758 180,160 (21,402)
The amount taken to share capital is the nominal value of 200,177,777 shares issued at 1p each.
The amount taken to share premium account is 200,177,777 shares issued at a premium of 89p per share (90p cash received less
1p per share nominal value), less expenses of £14,837,000 relating to the issue and listing of new shares.
£4,016,000 has been taken to the Consolidated Income Statement as operating costs. This is an apportionment of the costs of listing
to the shares in existence before the IPO.
The costs of new debt facilities, £2,549,000, are deducted from loan principal at the onset of the facility and are amortised over the
period of the facility. Amortisation of these costs is included in finance costs.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
78 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 25 Reserves
Retained earnings
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 April (137,605) (159,769)
Retained profit for the year 17,514 14,662
Dividends paid (note 10) (12,225) –
Minority interest (841) (1,226)
Treasury shares purchased (note 24) (1,600) –
Actuarial gain 5,120 12,516
Deferred tax movement on pension liability (3,196) (3,788)
At 31 March (132,833) (137,605)
Other reserves
Share-
Foreign based
exchange incentives
reserve reserve Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2006 1,208 – 1,208
Currency translation differences (99) – (99)
Share-based incentives – 144 144
At 1 April 2007 1,109 144 1,253
Currency translation differences 3,300 – 3,300
Share-based incentives – 703 703
At 31 March 2008 4,409 847 5,256
26 Minority Interests
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 April 2,938 948
Exchange differences 154 (62)
Acquisitions – 1,632
Disposals (45) (70)
Dividends paid (1,348) (736)
Share of profit after tax 841 1,226
At 31 March 2,540 2,938
HRG Annual Report 2008 79 26 Minority Interests continued
Minority interests relate to the following companies, all of which are companies registered in Germany except for Spendvision
Holdings Limited, which is registered in England and Wales:
As at 31 March
2008 2008 2007 2007
Group interest Minority interest Group Interest Minority Interest
%% %%
Reiseburo A.L.R. Atlantik-Luft-Reederei GmbH, Bonn 90% 10% 90% 10%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo GmbH & Co. KG, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd DFB Reiseburo GmbH, Ffm 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo Btlg. GmbH, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
FC Bayern Tours GmbH, Munchen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Bay Sports -Travel GmbH, Leverkusen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Spendvision Holdings Limited 58% 42% 51% 49%
The Group interest in Spendvision Holdings Limited has increased as at 31 March 2008 following a further investment (note 27).
27 Acquisitions
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cash (paid)/received
HRG Belgium NV (1,009) –
Spendvision Holdings Limited (1,344) (1,508)
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) (1,920) (2,093)
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o – (1,115)
Ian Flint Associates – (152)
Executive Travel Associates (9) (3,758)
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH – (841)
Advance Meeting Partners Corporation – (329)
Robustelli World Travel – 452
Cash and deposits of businesses acquired – 562
(4,282) (8,782)
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Goodwill arising on acquisitions
HRG Belgium NV 1,178 –
Spendvision Holdings Limited 1,299 2,221
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) – 3,407
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o – 858
Ian Flint Associates – 152
Executive Travel Associates 9 3,595
Euro Lloyd MAN Reiseburo GmbH – 771
2,486 11,004
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of HRG Belgium NV is provisional subject to adjustments which may be made within 12 months of
the acquisition date.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
80 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 27 Acquisitions continued
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being
separately identified and recognised.
HRG Belgium NV
On 1 October 2007 the Group acquired a 100% interest in the business of Weinberg Travel BVBA, the Group’s existing partner in
Belgium. This business was acquired by HRG Belgium NV, a Group company. Consideration was £829,000 in cash settled on
acquisition and a reduction of £50,000 relating to a working capital adjustment on completion in December 2007. From the date of
acquisition to 31 March 2008 the company contributed £1,143,000 to revenue and reported a profit before interest of £40,000. It is
not practicable to disclose the revenue or profit of the acquired business for the twelve months ended 31 March 2008 because the
assets acquired did not form the entire business for which financial statements were available.
Book Fair value Fair value
value adjustments provisional
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intellectual property and software 9 – 9
Other assets and liabilities (178) – (178)
Net liabilities acquired (169) – (169)
Goodwill 1,178
1,009
Consideration 779
Transaction costs 230
1,009
Spendvision Holdings Limited
On 13 March 2008 the Group acquired an additional 7% in Spendvision Holdings Limited for £1,344,000, bringing its total holding
to date to 58%.
Significant adjustment to amounts reported in prior years
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic)
In the twelve months to 31 March 2008, an adjustment was made in Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) to increase the net assets
by £265,000. Deferred consideration on the purchase of Hogg Robinson s.r.o was paid in the year ended 31 March 2008 and was
£871,000 higher than originally anticipated. Goodwill arising on the acquisition has been increased by £606,000 to reflect these
adjustments. The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2007 has been restated to reflect these adjustments.
Spendvision Holdings Limited
In the year ended 31 March 2008, an adjustment was made in Spendvision to decrease the net assets by £191,000. Goodwill arising
on acquisition has been increased by £191,000. The Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 March 2007 has been restated to reflect
these adjustments.
28 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
In 1994 Compagnie Dens Ocean NV (CDO), an indirectly owned subsidiary, received a claim from the Belgian Customs authorities
resulting in a liquidator being appointed in 1995. Civil litigation is in process with criminal proceedings being considered pending the
final outcome of the civil action. The liquidator is defending the civil action vigorously and has received strong legal advice on the
strength of CDO’s case. The Directors continue to believe, on the basis of such advice, that any future impact on the net assets of the
Group would not exceed the existing provision.
HRG Annual Report 2008 81 29 Operating leases
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments:
Due within one year 14,775 12,694
From second to fifth year inclusive 34,430 28,439
After five years 16,723 13,777
Total commitment 65,928 54,910
Operating lease commitments represent principally arrangements for the occupation of office properties. Property leases are
arranged taking into account local market conditions to secure the use of offices with economical rentals. At 31 March 2008 on
average property leases had 4.6 years to run (2007: 4.6 years).
30 Related parties
Remuneration of key management personnel
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Short term employee benefits 2,799 2,918
Post-employment benefits 187 177
Termination benefits 395 244
Share-based incentives 548 97
3,929 3,436
The key management personnel of the Group are the Directors of Hogg Robinson Group plc and members of the Executive
Management Team.
Interests of Directors in the Company’s shares are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
Receivable from joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 142 113
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 754 482
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co 20 8
916 603
Associates
WELT Reiseburo GmbH 1 3
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
82 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 30 Related parties continued
Payable to joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited – 15
Associates
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH 246 273
Liga Travel GmbH 179 256
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH 40 211
465 740
Business Travel International BV
The Group has a 50% interest (2007: 50%) in shares of Business Travel International BV (BTI BV) a travel service and management
organisation. The Group is currently the managing partner of BTI BV and makes charges for staff, premises and management
expertise. Following the launch of the HRG brand the activities of BTI BV are diminishing.
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Charge to BTI BV for staff, premises and management expertise 134 642
China and Hong Kong
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Recharged by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited – 5
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 6 16
Recharged to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 2 1
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 714 487
Management services provided in Germany
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Associates 12 3
Joint ventures 16 90
Transactions with Permira Advisors LLP
In the year ended 31 March 2007 a fee of £960,000 was paid to Permira Advisors LLP in respect of services provided for the IPO.
Prior to the IPO Permira held a 58% interest in issued ordinary shares and 64% interest in Preference shares of the Company.
HRG Annual Report 2008 83 31 Cash generated from operations
Years ended 31 March
2007
2008 restated
£’000 £’000
Profit before tax from continuing operations 25,227 12,879
Profit/(loss) before tax from discontinued operations – 4,870
25,227 17,749
Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (note 11 and 12) 9,763 9,078
Net increase in provisions 2,972 1,328
Share of results of associates and joint ventures (138) (404)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (note 8) – (4,870)
Net finance costs (note 6) 10,905 22,905
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (note 7) 827 2,929
Exceptional pension credit – defined benefit schemes (note 5) (1,526) –
Pension past service credits – defined benefit schemes (note 5) – (6,298)
Pension past service credits – defined contribution schemes (note 5) – 300
IPO costs charged in operating results (note 4) – 4,016
Other timing differences 599 255
48,629 46,988
Cash expenditure charged to provisions (note 21) (2,755) (3,417)
Change in trade and other receivables (6,009) 5,154
Change in trade and other payables 6,707 (4,334)
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit (note 23) (6,508) (6,539)
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions 40,064 37,852
Cash generated from operations before special pension contributions for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been restated to reflect
reclassification of foreign exchange movements and the cash effect of currency swaps between cash flows from operating activities,
cash flows from financing activities and the reconciliation between opening and closing cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts
to more fairly reflect cash flows from operating activities.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
84 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 32 Share-based incentives
The Group operates equity-settled share-based incentive schemes as follows:
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP scheme is applicable to certain senior executives including Executive Directors. Shares are awarded which vest for no
consideration after a three year period subject to performance conditions. Each award has two discrete elements with performance
conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR) and on earnings per share (EPS) respectively.
The extent to which the TSR portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance over a three year period
relative to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support Service Index. Full vesting will take place for a top 20%
ranking, 25% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median.
The extent to which the EPS portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the EPS of the Company increasing over a three year period.
Full vesting will take place if the increase in EPS is at least 15% greater than the increase in RPI over the same period, 25% vesting if
the increase over RPI is 5% greater and no award if EPS falls below this 5% increase over RPI.
If performance conditions are met then options will be exercised up to six months after the vesting date. Participants who leave as a
result of a qualifying reason (generally, retirement or involuntary redundancy) will receive a pro-rata entitlement. The awards for other
participants who leave prior to vesting will lapse.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The CSOP scheme is applicable to certain senior executives including Executive Directors. Share options are awarded which vest after
a three year period subject to performance conditions. The exercise price of the options is the market price of shares immediately
prior to the award. Each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR) and
on earnings per share (EPS) respectively. The performance conditions and arrangements for leavers are the same as for the PSP
scheme. Options can be exercised for a period of up to ten years after the date of the grant.
Sharesave schemes
Sharesave schemes have been established in most countries in which the Group has operations and are applicable to all employees.
Options are issued linked to savings contracts of up to £250 per month (or equivalent amounts overseas) for periods of three or five
years (two years in the USA) with a six month exercise period. Options are issued at a discount of up to 20% of the market price
immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply.
The Group’s charge for equity-settled share-based incentives for the year of £703,000 (2007: £144,000) has been included in operating
expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
HRG Annual Report 2008 85 32 Share-based incentives continued
The following table illustrates the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year:
PSP CSOP Sharesave
number of number number 
shares WAEP of options WAEP of options
Outstanding as at 1 April 2006 –––––
Granted during the year 1,731,215 96p 3,809,357 82p 4,879,250
Exercised –––––
Forfeited –––––
Outstanding as at 31 March 2007 1,731,215 96p 3,809,357 82p 4,879,250
Granted during the year 1,970,875 66p 4,072,507 – –
Exercised –––––
Forfeited – 87p (47,950) 82p (877,279)
Outstanding as at 31 March 2008 3,702,090 80p 7,833,914 82p 4,001,971
Exercisable at 31 March 2007 –––––
Exercisable at 31 March 2008 –––––
Granted subject to TSR conditions 705,378 1,513,103 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 1,025,837 2,296,254 –
Granted without performance conditions – – 4,879,250
At 31 March 2007 1,731,215 3,809,357 4,879,250
Granted subject to TSR conditions 1,482,595 3,123,445 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 2,083,902 4,710,469 –
Granted without performance conditions 135,593 – 4,001,971
At 31 March 2008 3,702,090 7,833,914 4,001,971
The range of exercise prices of outstanding share options was nil to 96 pence with a weighted average contractual life of 6.91 years.
The fair value of options granted in the year is estimated as at the date of grant using the following valuation models:
Valuation model
Grants subject to TSR conditions Monte Carlo
Grants subject to EPS conditions and Sharesave schemes Black-Scholes
Key assumptions used in valuing share options were:
Weighted average share price at grant date (pence) 86
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 24
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 63
Expected life (years) 2.25 – 6.5
Vesting period (years) 2 – 5
Expected and historic volatility (%) 20 – 24
Risk free rate of return (%) 4.47 – 5.44
Expected dividend yield (%) 5
Expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes for a comparator group of similar
companies. This reflects the assumption that historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the outcome.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
86 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 33 Holding company and principal trading subsidiaries
Hogg Robinson Group plc is a limited company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England & Wales.
It is a holding company for the Group. Its registered office is:
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
United Kingdom
Registered Number: 3946303
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of business services in one core activity: Business Travel.
The following were the principal subsidiaries of the Group as at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007, (except HRG Belgium NV which
was incorporated on 27 July 2007). The companies were wholly owned except where indicated below.
Name Country of incorporation Class of shares
Holding companies
HRG Debtco Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Business services providers
Hogg Robinson (Travel) Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Services AB Sweden Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Holdings AS Norway Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic OY Finland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson France SA France Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Italia SpA Italy Ordinary
ZAO BTI Russia Russia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Canada Inc Canada Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary
Spendvision Pty Ltd (58% held) Australia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Switzerland Limited Switzerland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Germany GmbH & Co KG Germany Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Hungary Limited Hungary Ordinary
Hogg Robinson USA LLC USA Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o Poland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson s.r.o Czech Republic Ordinary
HRG Belgium NV Belgium Ordinary
HRG Annual Report 2008 87 34 Post balance sheet events
On 25 February 2008 an award was made in respect of certain aspects of an arbitration which had been initiated by the Group
against Kuoni Reisen Holding AG, the former owners of companies acquired by the Group, for breaches of the relevant sale and
purchase agreement. As a result of that award and actions resulting from that award, a final settlement was reached with Kuoni
Reisen Holding AG as to the precise amount of damages and the net credit for these amounts is included in the results for the year
ended 31 March 2008 as exceptional items (note 4).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
88 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HRG Annual Report 2007 89
The facts and figures... We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of
Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These
Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared under
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2008.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Parent Company
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Parent
Company Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit,
or if information specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent
Company Financial Statements. The other information comprises
only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Chairman’s Statement,
the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial Review and the
Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent
Company Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made
by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
31 March 2008;
– the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
3 June 2008
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Parent Company
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
90 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... As at 31 March
2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary companies 4 132,141 132,141
132,141 132,141
Current assets
Amounts due from Group undertakings:
– due after more than one year 5 156,402 170,612
– due within one year 6 13,861 281
Other debtors 8 105
Cash – 3
170,271 171,001
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 – (171)
Net current assets 170,271 170,830
Total assets less current liabilities 302,412 302,971
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Amounts due to subsidiary companies (1,305) (2,600)
(1,305) (2,600)
Net assets 301,107 300,371
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 8 3,068 3,056
Share premium 9 171,942 171,289
Other reserves 9 847 144
Retained earnings 9 125,250 125,882
Equity shareholders’ funds 10 301,107 300,371
The Parent Company Financial Statements on pages 91 to 96 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2008 and were
signed on its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director 
Registered number in England & Wales: 3946303
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 91 Basis of accounting
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985, and conform with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards (UK GAAP). The Directors
consider that the accounting policies set out below are suitable,
have been consistently applied and are supported by reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates.
Changes in accounting policies
The Company has adopted FRS 29, Financial Instruments:
Disclosures in these Parent Company Financial Statements.
The adoption of these standards represents changes in
accounting policies. There is no impact on current or prior
year figures on the adoption of FRS 29.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
on an accruals basis.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s Shareholders is
recognised as a liability in the Parent Company Financial
Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved
by the Company’s Shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less
any provision for impairment in value.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as
current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right
to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after
the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs are recognised as an
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting
all of its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Taxation and deferred taxation
Any charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the
period and takes into account deferred taxation. Full provision is
made where required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation for deferred
taxation on all timing differences, which have arisen but have not
reversed at the balance sheet date.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Share-based incentives
The Company operates several equity-settled share-based
incentive schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards is
calculated at grant date and is recognised as an expense over
the vesting period. For awards with vesting conditions based on
market conditions (particularly, those based on total shareholder
return compared with external benchmarks), the likelihood of
vesting is assessed at the date of grant and is not subsequently
amended in arriving at the expense for each year in the vesting
period. All other awards are re-assessed at each balance sheet
date, with the expense charged to the Profit and Loss Account
including the impact of changes of previous estimates of the
likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the year gives rise to
a corresponding credit to equity.
Management judgement
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies,
management has made a number of judgements, none of which
are considered to have a significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the Parent Company Financial Statements.
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1, the Company’s
Cash Flow Statement has not been separately presented in these
Parent Company Financial Statements. The Company is also
exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party
transactions with entities that are part of Hogg Robinson Group
plc or investees of Hogg Robinson Group plc. The Directors of
Hogg Robinson Group plc had no material transactions with the
Company during the year.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
92 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
1 Accounting policies
2 Cash flow statement and related party disclosures 3 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the
year. Hogg Robinson Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2008 of £11,593,000 (2007: profit of £161,803,000).
Audit fees for the Company are borne by a subsidiary of this Company, Hogg Robinson Limited.
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Services provided to comply with legislation
Charged to operating costs – 2,575
Charged to equity – 4,339
– 6,914
Other services provided by PwC to comply with legislation include services in respect of the IPO at a cost of £nil (2007: £6,629,000),
half year review fees of £nil (2007: £272,000) and other fees of £nil (2007: £14,000).
4 Investments
Subsidiary
Companies
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008 132,141
The Directors consider that the fair value of investments is not less than their carrying value.
The market capitalisation of the Group is given in the Group financial records. A list of subsidiaries is provided in note 33 to the
Group Consolidated Financial Statements on page 87.
5 Amounts due from Group undertakings: due after more than one year
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 154,337 170,148
Amount due from other Group undertakings 2,065 464
156,402 170,612
The intercompany receivable with HRG Debtco Limited arose as a result of refinancing during the year ended 31 March 2007 ahead
of the IPO.
Amounts due from subsidiary companies after more than one year are unsecured and interest is charged. There is no fixed date of
repayment.
HRG Annual Report 2008 93 6 Amounts due from Group undertakings: due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 12,866 –
Amount due from other Group undertakings 995 281
13,861 281
Amounts due from group undertakings within one year are unsecured and interest free.
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Other payables – 171
– 171
8 Share capital and reserves
Share capital authorised
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
number number
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
513,808,171 513,808,171
Share capital issued, called up and fully paid
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each at 1 April 3,056 3,056
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 12 –
3,068 3,056
Share warrants
Entitlement
Book to Ordinary
value shares
£’000 number
At 1 April 2006 5,290 404,105
Issue of additional warrants 88 1,804
Exercise of warrants (5,378) (405,909)
At 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008 – –
Warrants were in issue at 1 April 2006 which allowed holders to subscribe for 405,909 ‘B’ Ordinary shares at 1 pence each at par when
a subscription event took place, which occurred in October 2006.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED
94 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures... 9 Reserves
Share-
Share Profit based
premium and loss incentives
account reserve reserve Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2006 3,604 (35,921) – (32,317)
Profit for the year – 161,803 – 161,803
Rights issue of Ordinary shares (1,014) – – (1,014)
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares:
– Warrant holders 5,378 – – 5,378
– IPO 163,163 – – 163,163
– Non-Executive Directors 158 – – 158
Share-based incentives – – 144 144
At 1 April 2007 171,289 125,882 144 297,315
Profit for the year – 11,593 – 11,593
Dividends paid (note 11) – (12,225) – (12,225)
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares:
– IPO 40–– 40
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of dividend 613 – – 613
Share-based incentives – – 703 703
At 31 March 2008 171,942 125,250 847 298,039
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares on IPO are net of £14,837,000 share issue expenses in the year ended 31 March 2007.
As at 31 March 2008 the Company has £20,112,000 of distributable reserves (2007: £16,254,000).
10 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Profit for the year 11,593 161,803
Redemption of share capital – (37)
Issue of share capital – 3,056
Rights issue of Ordinary shares – (1,014)
Issue of additional warrants – 88
Exercise of share warrants – (5,378)
Dividends paid (12,225) –
Premium on issue of Ordinary shares (note 9) 40 168,699
Interim scrip dividend 625 –
Share-based incentives 703 144
Net increase/(decrease) to shareholders’ funds 736 327,361
Shareholders’ funds/(deficit) at 1 April 300,371 (26,990)
Shareholders’ funds at 31 March 301,107 300,371
HRG Annual Report 2008 95 96 HRG Annual Report 2008
The facts and figures...
11 Dividends per share
The dividends paid to the Company's Shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2008 were:
Years ended 31 March
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2007 – 2.8p per share 8,558 –
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2008 – 1.2p per share 3,667 –
Total dividends (note 9) 12,225 –
Scrip dividends to the value of £625,000 in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead of
a cash payment.
A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 of 2.8p per Ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of £8,591,326,
is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2008. These Parent Company Financial Statements do not reflect this
dividend payable.
12 Employees
The Company has no employees.
Disclosure of the Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 36 of the Annual Report.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008 – CONTINUED Contents
1 Highlights of 2008
2 Hogg Robinson Group
Company overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
11 Financial Review
15 Hogg Robinson Group...
delivering value
22 Directors and Executive 
Management Team
24 Company Information
25 Directors’ Report
29 Corporate Governance
32 Remuneration Report
37 Consolidated Financial Statements
38 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
39 Independent Auditors’ Report
40 Consolidated Income Statement
41 Consolidated Balance Sheet
42 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
43 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
89 Parent Company Financial Statements
90 Independent Auditors’ Report
91 Company Balance Sheet
92 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
97 Shareholder Information
OUR BUSINESS
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG) is the international
corporate travel services company providing a range 
of services which add demonstrable value to our 
clients’ corporate travel and related expenditure.
Totally committed to a value offering, our 
extensive and comprehensive portfolio includes: 
Corporate Travel Management, Consulting, 
Events & Meetings Management, Sports and
Spendvision/Expense Management. 
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO
Timetable
The major timetable dates are as follows:
Ex-dividend date for 2007/08 final dividend 2 July 2008
Record date for 2007/08 final dividend 4 July 2008
2008 Annual General Meeting 21 July 2008
Latest date for scrip elections 22 July 2008
Payment of 2007/08 final dividend 1 August 2008
Half yearly report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2008 November 2008
Payment date for the 2008/09 interim dividend December 2008
Preliminary announcement of 2008/09 results June 2009
2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements posted to shareholders June 2009
2009 Annual General Meeting July 2009
Payment date for 2008/09 final dividend August 2009
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6ZL
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0870 600 3970
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0870 600 3950
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Interim Reports and other information
about the Company are available on this site.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
HRG Annual Report 2008 97 HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk.  
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
