 HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PL C
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
Making a difference.
People. Technology. Breadth of service.
CONTENTS
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
Hogg Robinson Group
Our business
1 Making a difference
3 Talented people make the difference
5 Innovation through technology
7 Breadth of service
8 Market trends
12 Highlights of 2009
13 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Review
– Our business
– Our market
– Our strategy
– Our performance
– Spendvision
– Technology
– Awards
18 Q&A with the Chief Executive
20 Financial Review
24 Board of Directors and
Executive Management Team
26 Company Information
27 Directors’ Report
32 Corporate Governance
35 Remuneration Report
42 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
43 Independent Auditors’ Report
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Consolidated Balance Sheet
46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense
48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
85 Parent Company Financial Statements
86 Independent Auditors’ Report
87 Parent Company Balance Sheet
88 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
92 Shareholder Information HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PL C
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
Making a difference.
People. Technology. Breadth of service.
CONTENTS
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
Hogg Robinson Group
Our business
1 Making a difference
3 Talented people make the difference
5 Innovation through technology
7 Breadth of service
8 Market trends
12 Highlights of 2009
13 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Review
– Our business
– Our market
– Our strategy
– Our performance
– Spendvision
– Technology
– Awards
18 Q&A with the Chief Executive
20 Financial Review
24 Board of Directors and
Executive Management Team
26 Company Information
27 Directors’ Report
32 Corporate Governance
35 Remuneration Report
42 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
43 Independent Auditors’ Report
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Consolidated Balance Sheet
46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense
48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
85 Parent Company Financial Statements
86 Independent Auditors’ Report
87 Parent Company Balance Sheet
88 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
92 Shareholder Information Designed and produced byfourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG) OUR BUSINESS
HRG owned Entities
Members of the HRG worldwide network
International corporate travel services
At the core of HRG’s offering is ‘Corporate Travel Management’ through which
the Company is able to provide clients with a comprehensive range of products
and services tailored to their specific requirements.
HRG offers practical advice and innovative solutions whether the prerequisite
is for personal service, online booking tools, consulting, events and meetings
management, cost savings, data management and analytics or traveller tracking
– a must in today’s security conscious environment. Furthermore HRG can
provide a totally outsourced travel management function.
The advantage
Clients have always been and will remain the main focus at HRG. They are at the
heart of everything we do and, through our people and our technology, we strive
to deliver beyond expectation.
Corporate travel can be complex but, by working closely with our clients to
understand their own business objectives, HRG will offer the most appropriate
solution.
In short, HRG is about‘choice’; it aims to deliver exactly what the client needs,
whether that is strategy, policy or tactics.
Key growth drivers
We aim not just to maintain but to improve our high client retention rate and
to secure additional new business. Organic growth has been consistent, thanks
to ongoing new business wins and contractual retentions and extensions, as
well as the provision of new products and services to existing clients.
HRG’s success in exceeding service expectations as well as delivering new
operating platforms and total cost savings, leads the way to expand coverage
of many of our client contracts; and a good example of this is the success of
our major UK government contracts which have already enabled us to secure
additional public service clients.
Our acquisition strategy is driven by both client and market requirements.
The underlying premise is that HRG will acquire businesses in markets where
ownership will heighten our ability to provide local service excellence to
both national and multinational client organisations.
Spendvision/Expense management
Spendvision, in which HRG has a majority ownership, is one of the world’s leading
expense management automation companies. It provides sophisticated, multi-
language and multi-currency online expense management and data consolidation.
An increasing area of importance in today’s cost conscious business environment,
the Spendvision offering helps clients to manage employee controlled
expenditure whether using credit cards, personal cash claims, purchasing cards
or other mediums such as mobile phones and fuel cards.
The Company
Hogg Robinson Group plc (HRG) is an award-winning international corporate
travel services company. Founded in 1845 by a wine merchant and an insurance
broker, the Company has always been involved in business-to-business activities
and has evolved so that its business is now concentrated on providing valued
services to, predominantly, multinational and large national corporations.
HRG’s focus on ‘managed clients’ is underpinned by over 60 years of business
travel experience and expertise delivered through its dedicated staff, its cutting
edge technology, its innovative and flexible approach and its broad range of
services. Combined, this unique offering provides clients with real value through
operational excellence and savings on their overall spend on corporate travel.
Size and scope
HRG has owned or controlled operations in 25 key driver/growth markets in
North America, Europe and Asia Pacific which are supported by a strong network
of contracted partners.
The global network extends to nearly 120 countries with a substantial presence
on all continents.
International corporate
travel services
The advantage Key growth drivers Spendvision/Expense management
The Company Size and scope Designed and produced byfourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG) OUR BUSINESS
HRG owned Entities
Members of the HRG worldwide network
International corporate travel services
At the core of HRG’s offering is ‘Corporate Travel Management’ through which
the Company is able to provide clients with a comprehensive range of products
and services tailored to their specific requirements.
HRG offers practical advice and innovative solutions whether the prerequisite
is for personal service, online booking tools, consulting, events and meetings
management, cost savings, data management and analytics or traveller tracking
– a must in today’s security conscious environment. Furthermore HRG can
provide a totally outsourced travel management function.
The advantage
Clients have always been and will remain the main focus at HRG. They are at the
heart of everything we do and, through our people and our technology, we strive
to deliver beyond expectation.
Corporate travel can be complex but, by working closely with our clients to
understand their own business objectives, HRG will offer the most appropriate
solution.
In short, HRG is about‘choice’; it aims to deliver exactly what the client needs,
whether that is strategy, policy or tactics.
Key growth drivers
We aim not just to maintain but to improve our high client retention rate and
to secure additional new business. Organic growth has been consistent, thanks
to ongoing new business wins and contractual retentions and extensions, as
well as the provision of new products and services to existing clients.
HRG’s success in exceeding service expectations as well as delivering new
operating platforms and total cost savings, leads the way to expand coverage
of many of our client contracts; and a good example of this is the success of
our major UK government contracts which have already enabled us to secure
additional public service clients.
Our acquisition strategy is driven by both client and market requirements.
The underlying premise is that HRG will acquire businesses in markets where
ownership will heighten our ability to provide local service excellence to
both national and multinational client organisations.
Spendvision/Expense management
Spendvision, in which HRG has a majority ownership, is one of the world’s leading
expense management automation companies. It provides sophisticated, multi-
language and multi-currency online expense management and data consolidation.
An increasing area of importance in today’s cost conscious business environment,
the Spendvision offering helps clients to manage employee controlled
expenditure whether using credit cards, personal cash claims, purchasing cards
or other mediums such as mobile phones and fuel cards.
The Company
Hogg Robinson Group plc (HRG) is an award-winning international corporate
travel services company. Founded in 1845 by a wine merchant and an insurance
broker, the Company has always been involved in business-to-business activities
and has evolved so that its business is now concentrated on providing valued
services to, predominantly, multinational and large national corporations.
HRG’s focus on ‘managed clients’ is underpinned by over 60 years of business
travel experience and expertise delivered through its dedicated staff, its cutting
edge technology, its innovative and flexible approach and its broad range of
services. Combined, this unique offering provides clients with real value through
operational excellence and savings on their overall spend on corporate travel.
Size and scope
HRG has owned or controlled operations in 25 key driver/growth markets in
North America, Europe and Asia Pacific which are supported by a strong network
of contracted partners.
The global network extends to nearly 120 countries with a substantial presence
on all continents.
International corporate
travel services
The advantage Key growth drivers Spendvision/Expense management
The Company Size and scope HRG Annual Report 2009 1
MAKING A DIFFERENCE
HRG’s philosophy is to focus on three differentiators –
its people, its technology and its breadth of service.
It is these three areas that combine to deliver service
excellence, cost savings, efficiency and innovation to
clients around the globe. The Company has experienced
management and skilled operators together with a
strong reputation for technology which it develops and
owns in-house. In addition, HRG is the only major travel
management company to offer a real breadth of service.
HRG’s client base spans a broad range of industry
sectors including Automotive, Banking and Finance,
Manufacturing, Media and Entertainment, Oil and Gas,
Pharmaceutical, Telecommunications; these companies
operate from a host of international locations, many with
operations themselves crossing international borders.
HRG is also proud to service a number of public
sector clients.
We use our resources to remove the impact of complexity
and ongoing change associated with corporate travel,
allowing clients to focus on its role in achieving their own
corporate objectives. The following pages describe in
more detail the capabilities that enable HRG to provide
outstanding value to the diverse range of organisations
we serve, with their hugely varying requirements.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures International Corporate Travel Services
2 HRG Annual Report 2009
Knowledge and expertise are the cornerstones of
everything we do. HRG enjoys extensive long-service
from its people which we believe is born of their
commitment to the Company’s success and to
delivering service excellence to our clients.
Passionate HRG Annual Report 2009 3
Most companies recognise that people are their greatest asset and at HRG
we know that our talented people really do make a difference. Led by
an experienced Management Team, employees have the knowledge,
experience and skill sets which create a power that, we believe, sets our
business aside from the rest of the market.
The Management Team is committed to communicating with colleagues around
the world. Although there is a comprehensive programme in place for electronic,
print and personal exchange of information, the Company is continually striving
to improve all channels to ensure that all colleagues are kept apprised of
company developments and the open and honest culture of HRG.
We aim to employ the best workforce by training and, where appropriate,
reskilling valued members of staff. There is often opportunity for employees to
grow and fulfil career ambitions via HRG’s dedication to training and continuous
professional development. As a result HRG enjoys extensive long-service from its
people which we believe is born of their commitment to the Company’s success
and to delivering service excellence to our clients.
Staff loyalty and dedication are recognised and rewarded by an innovative
programme of dedicated activities which include staff hospitality, international
cultural exchange visits and awards – both locally and globally.
One of our proudest internal achievements is the support of ActionAid – our
designated global charity. In FY09, £93,000 was raised worldwide which brought
much needed aid for the street children in the City of God (Rio de Janeiro), ‘Aids’
victims in Malawi, and abused women and children in Cambodia. Our support
for ActionAid will continue in the coming year with fundraising directed to the
provision of quality education for children in one of the deprived areas of
Lascahobas in Haiti, a safe haven for the street children in Andhra Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh, India, and to provide a community centre in the rural community
of Ngqushwa, South Africa.
Corporate Social Responsibility is an area that is exercised by and on behalf of
our employees and several schemes are in place to help the environment by
adopting the Reduce, Recycle, Reuse mantra.
Company of Choice
Committed: We are totally committed to delivering the best of ourselves for our
company, our clients, our colleagues, our partners and our investors. We take pride
in being dependable, reliable and responsible.
Honest: We operate in an open and honest environment building strong
relationships based on trust, confidence and respect.
Outstanding: We are passionate about what we do and are driven to deliver
products and services that are recognised as outstanding. We don’t just meet
expectations; we exceed them.
Innovative: We constantly evolve with the changing nature of our business and
that of our clients, exploring innovative opportunities to achieve our mutual goals.
Client-focussed: We adopt a client-focussed approach where our people and
processes are designed to satisfy our clients and exceed their expectations.
Expertise: Our proven international expertise is built on industry experience,
skilled employees, specialist capabilities and leading edge solutions.
TALENTED PEOPLE MAKE
THE DIFFERENCE
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures International Corporate Travel Services
4 HRG Annual Report 2009
HRG’s technology strategy includes the extensive
integration of content giving access to more products
and services to serve clients…delivering a full service
offering that will change the way travel management
companies look and feel.
Full service offering HRG Annual Report 2009 5
Technology is a critical success factor in the Business. The Business
Technology team at HRG continues to invent, build and deliver products
and services which better serve the client. The technology is not only
commercially viable, but is often endorsed by some of the biggest names
in IT such as, for example, Microsoft.
Recently created, launched and developed HRG branded products include
Online, i-Suite, Reporting, Point of Sale, and Travel Watch. The continued
development and deployment of our own technology, together with our
relationships with key technology partners, clearly demonstrate our position
as leaders in the field.
The future for HRG in terms of technology is both revolutionary and exciting.
The continued development of the Universal Super Platform (USP), HRG’s
Business Enterprise System, will allow HRG to define the business as it needs
and wants it to be by ensuring that it has control of its business processes.
HRG’s technology strategy includes the extensive integration of content giving
access to more services and products to serve clients. A virtual service centre
approach, using various modes of communication, will be possible; technology
will enable a very real breadth of products, services, experience and talents from
a team of people not necessarily based in a single, shared real space. This will
give clients an even greater offering with substantial additional benefits.
The technology evolution that awaits HRG will give the sales team a better way
of servicing their clients; for the operational teams, it will provide benefits and
savings as virtual space and unified communications become a reality.
Through its cutting edge technology, we believe that HRG is the only
international corporate travel services company which can affect the future
shape of the industry: we continue to lead an industry wide lobby for the
adoption of consistent application integration standards to achieve an
international standardisation of processes and sharing of best practice,
resulting in many client benefits.
HRG can and will work differently with its technology delivering a full service
offering that will change the way travel management companies look and feel.
INNOVATION THROUGH
TECHNOLOGY
The Business Travel Show Innovation Awards recognise
business travel suppliers who create highly innovative
products, services and processes for buyers, travellers and
suppliers. HRG won two categories in 2009, including the
Technology award with the HRG Universal Super Platform ™ .
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
Innovation Awards International Corporate Travel Services
6 HRG Annual Report 2009
Key managed clients will continue to look to HRG to
recommend cost saving opportunities and deliver service
excellence, but they will become more reliant and
expectant of HRG’s ability to coordinate the integration
of the elements clients already have in place.
Market development HRG Annual Report 2009 7
HRG’s mission is to deliver value to clients from their total travel spend
whether that is via a choice of service, the latest technological solution
or working with the client on a consultative basis to deliver cost savings.
Generally, HRG is recognised as the only major corporate travel services company
to offer a very real breadth and depth of services to its clients: from basic
transactions, such as reservations and bookings for air, hotel, rail and car rental,
through to data provision, warehousing and analytics, benchmarking and
programme management.
With multi-country options, and consolidated service centres being just two
of the high level trends established by HRG on behalf of their clients over the
last twelve months, HRG has responded to the growing requirements for more
transparency. As a result, clients have greater flexibility in supplier management
and quickly and efficiently benefit from process changes.
The Consulting service provides clients with additional opportunities including
travel policy analysis and the management of the entire supplier contract
tendering process. Through its Events & Meetings Management service, HRG’s
dedicated international team of experts has the knowledge and expertise that
not only save clients time and money but which also create a lasting impression
of an occasion that was memorable and successful. The Sports related services
take care of every aspect of the travel, logistics and accommodation
requirements of high profile sporting clubs, associations and federations.
Expenditure is and will continue to be important to our clients and their focus
will remain on the total cost of business travel which will include fees, expenses
and overall time spent. Key managed clients will continue to look to HRG to
recommend cost saving opportunities and deliver service excellence, but they
will become more reliant and expectant of HRG’s ability to coordinate the
integration of the elements clients already have in place.
HRG has enormous talent to integrate processes and aggregate data, which
leads to the production of meaningful reporting accompanied by insightful
analysis. With proven international expertise, HRG has the skill and capacity to
understand our clients’ corporate travel priorities to ensure we deliver against
measurable results.
HRG services nearly 300 clients on a multinational basis.
These services range from basic transactions, such
as reservations and bookings for air, hotel, rail and car
rental, through to data provision, warehousing and
analytics, benchmarking and programme management.
Multinationalclients
BREADTH OF SERVICE
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 8 HRG Annual Report 2009
MARKET TRENDS
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1988
1990
1992
1994
1996
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Real Travel & Tourism activity (World)
Business travel and tourism
Source: WTTC (Expressed in billions at constant 2000 US$ rates without taking into account inﬂation and currency ﬂuctuations)
Growth in business travel
Although business travel, along with
almost all other indicators of economic
growth, has suffered in the current global
downturn, the long-term trend is
inexorably upwards.
In the short-term, however, the trajectory
is downwards. Flight bookings and hotel
reservations started to fall in Q1 2008 in
the USA, with most of the rest of the world
declining from Q4. According to the World
Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), global
business travel activity will fall from a record
high of $564 billion in 2008 to $524 billion
in real terms in 2009 and lower again to
$502 billion in 2010.
Looked at over a longer period, the story is
much more positive, in spite of intermittent
downturns such as at present and during
the years 2001-2003. Business travel activity
stood at $313 billion in 1989 and $473
billion in 1999, rising to an estimated $524
billion in 2009. The WTTC predicts it will
reach $749 billion by 2019.
International scheduled passenger
numbers have also risen dramatically, from
1.29 billion in 1998 to 1.63 billion in 2007
(the last full year for which figures are
available), according to the International
Air Transport Association (IATA). What is
more, IATA does not include no frills
carriers, which grew even more dramatically
during that period. The airline schedule
publisher OAG forecasts that deliveries of
aircraft to scheduled airlines will grow at a
rate of 3.3% CAGR to 2018, when there will
be 27,000 aircraft in service.
Long-term growth in
international trade
The main reason international business
travel has grown so fast – and will continue
to grow – is the continuing globalisation of
commerce. According to the World Trade
Organization, global exports have risen
from $2,869 billion in 1988 to $5,501 billion
in 1998 and $16,127 billion in 2008.
Businesses are increasingly likely to sell to
and buy from a widening range of markets
around the world. HRG Annual Report 2009 9
The changing role of corporate
travel management
Travel management companies grew from
originally being business travel agents,
whose primary task was to book flights,
hotel rooms and other such services on
behalf of corporate customers. Originally,
the agents earned their income from
supplier commission, part of which they
would rebate to larger clients.
This situation changed once airlines
reduced and eventually eliminated
commission from 1995 onwards. Business
travel agencies consequently evolved
into as Travel Management Companies
(TMCs). They still make bookings, although
transaction costs for simpler journeys have
been reduced significantly through
automation. Instead, TMCs such as HRG
have shifted their emphasis to being
corporate travel services companies
serving corporate clients in two main ways:
•
Helping corporate clients control their
travel expenditure, typically their
second-largest controllable operating
expense after salaries. This is achieved
through techniques such as policy
management, supplier data analysis
and negotiation, and use of technology
to locate the best prices on the market.
•
Duty of care for travellers, including
providing 24-hour assistance and
tracking them in emergencies.
A change in income source
As a result, TMCs now earn most of their
revenue from charging fees to their
corporate clients. Smaller clients usually
pay a fee for each individual transaction.
Larger clients pay a more inclusive
management type of fee. This arrangement
can include a gain share element in which
verified savings are shared between TMC
and client.
A successful transformation
In spite of competition from airline and
consumer travel websites, the
transformation from business travel agency
to TMC has been remarkably successful.
Proof of this fact is simple: although clients
now have to pay a fee for services that
were once ostensibly free, the number of
major corporations which have stopped
using a TMC is almost nil.
The main reason is that companies
recognise the importance of managing
travel through a single, expert intermediary,
instead of letting employees make their
own arrangements. This is because TMCs
have superior knowledge and technology. It
allows them consistently to find lower prices
than independent travellers, especially by
managing and tracking negotiated
corporate agreements and monitoring
traveller compliance with policy.
Another reason is the increasing
assumption of responsibility for travel
within organisations by procurement
departments. Often, travel is one category
among several that they purchase. As a
result, many purchasers opt to outsource
management responsibilities previously
handled in-house, ranging from policy
control to supplier negotiation.
Multinational TMCs
Four major players
HRG has only has three large multinational
competitors, none of which states its
earnings in a comparable manner. The
three are:
American Express (AmEx) is primarily a
credit card company which gained Federal
Reserve approval in November 2008 to
become a commercial bank, and applied
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program
(TARP) funding in December 2008. It does
not break out figures for its American
Express Business Travel division.
Carlson Wagonlit Travel (CWT): 55% of
its shares are held by Carlson, a private
company with interests in hotels,
restaurants, business and leisure travel,
and marketing services. The remaining 45%
are held by One Equity Partners, a private
equity affiliate of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
BCD Travel (BCD) is owned by the private
Dutch company BCD Holdings, which has
various interests in business and leisure
travel. According to the Mintel Business
Travel UK Report of August 2008, BCD
Travel accounts for 80% of its turnover.
The TMC market is consolidating among
HRG, Amex and CWT (generally considered
to be the players with the longest
experience in international travel
management) and BCD – but the potential
for this quartet to win more of the market is
vast. In 2007, Business Travel News reported
CWT as stating that the big four have a
combined market share of only 25%.
Multinational consolidation
Multinational corporations are increasingly
consolidating to use the same TMC in
multiple national markets. In some cases,
they are consolidating region by region;
in others, they are appointing one
TMC globally.
According to an article in January 2009
in Procurement.travel, there are several
reasons for multinational consolidation.
‘A consolidated program can help provide
a better handle on total spending, a
unified traveler database, effective traveler
tracking, consistent service delivery
and elimination of redundant supplier
contracts, ’ it said. ‘It also can generate
savings averaging 20%, according to a
2007 CWT Travel Management Institute
client survey. ’
HRG services nearly 300 clients on a
multinational basis.
A recession-proof business?
TMCs have not been immune to the
recession, but those TMCs which rely
more heavily on old-fashioned transaction
processing have been hit far harder.
HRG believes that income from business
management and consultancy type of
work may account for a higher proportion
of its revenues than most of its competitors.
This side of the TMC business is far more
recession-proof and is arguably almost
counter-cyclical, because corporations are
more willing to apply rigorous travel
management techniques when times are
tough. According to a global survey of
buyer members of the Association of
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 10 HRG Annual Report 2009
MARKET TRENDS
CONTINUED
25,000,000
20,000,000
15,000,000
10,000,000
5,000,000
0
Trend in the number of seats 2001 – 2009
© OAG Worldwide Ltd – 2009 All Rights Reserved China (Domestic excluding Hong Kong and Macau)
March
2001
7,856,478
March
2002
8,944,651
March
2003
10,087,360
March
2004
11,063,655
March
2005
12,345,853
March
2006
14,080,408
March
2007
17,515,345
March
2008
18,985,925
March
2009
21,408,280
COUNTRY CASE-STUDY:
China
As the figures below from OAG show, China has seen explosive growth in scheduled airline
seat numbers since 2001.
As a result, China is now the third-highest spender globally in absolute terms and business travel expenditure
will almost quadruple from $61.8 billion in 2009 to $233.6 billion in 2019. Compare this with the US, where
business travel expenditure is expected to rise by a much more modest 68% over the same period to
$283.1 billion.
In spite of this growth, strategic management of company travel programmes in China remains in its infancy.
However, a report on the Chinese market published in January 2009 by research company PhoCusWright, on
behalf of Amadeus IT Group, concluded that ‘TMCs that successfully establish themselves in the corporate
marketplace now will be best positioned to tap into significant, additional business opportunities in the future. ’
HRG was one of the first foreign-owned TMCs to invest in China by launching a joint-venture with Jin Jiang
International in 2003.
Corporate Travel Executives published
in April 2009, 62% believe the economic
downturn has made senior management
more receptive to their ideas for managing
the company travel programme.
Further evidence is provided by a survey of
544 corporate travel managers published
by the corporate payment services provider
AirPlus International in February 2009.
It found that the top three actions travel
managers are carrying out in the
recession are:
Enforcing stricter mandates 76%
Adjusting travel policy 71%
Re-negotiating contracts 65%
All three of these actions are usually
carried out by travel managers in close
co-operation with their appointed TMCs.
Long-term optimism
Continuing internationalisation
So long as businesses continue to globalise,
there is every reason to believe business
travel will resume its growth once GDP
recovers from the current economic
downturn. Indeed, with the emergence
of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China)
economies to rival the USA and EU,
international travel is likely to become
stronger than ever. In BRIC and other
emerging countries, extensive face-to-face
contact between business partners
remains extremely important culturally,
necessitating constant travel. HRG Annual Report 2009 11
CLIENT CASE-STUDY:
Public Sector Savings
This public sector client awarded their travel contract to HRG in December 2007. At the same
time they began rolling out a custom-developed self-booking tool, with the fulfilment services
supporting it managed by HRG.
Previously there had been no centrally controlled or managed travel programme or travel service
across their multiple UK and overseas sites. Deals with major carriers were historical, with the
same deals rolling over each year. Each client site sourced booking services locally. There was
virtually no agency data. There were wide variations in service scope and quality.
As part of a budget initiative, a central travel procurement team was formalised and the contract
put out to tender. Alongside the new contract, the procurement team introduced a travel policy
mandate, enforcing all travel bookings to be made through HRG or the online booking tool.
Communications, change management and supplier management activities handled by core
team of three dedicated HRG personnel.
Key Results
•
Long-held historical processes and habits replaced with more efficient methods and new
technologies
•
95% capture of all travel expenditure now booked through HRG
•
Replaced the historical rail travel process with a method that better controlled and managed
the client’s significant UK rail expenditure – generated savings of 25%
•
Negotiated new air deals and savings are measured against the deal fares – HRG ability to
spot-buy better fares than the deal, provide fare audits for complex itineraries and e-ticket
reclaim management saved 20% of air turnover expenditure
•
Calculated the average room rate in the previous 6 months for each major location and
established that as the benchmark cap rate for each city – negotiated with hotels to provide
rates at cap or less, or risk being dropped from use through non-compliant rates – this
negotiation plus impact of taking out inflationary costs is anticipated to save 16% in
2008/09 programme year.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
The requirement for travel management
is also likely to accelerate, with a particular
need for consolidated multinational
management as corporations’ travel
expenditure diversifies across more markets.
A survey of 1,130 chief financial officers by
IBM in 2008 found that more than 60%
were implementing globally oriented
strategies, including ‘global optimisation of
back-office functions, like finance and HR. ’
Travel management is a natural fit with
these functions.
Risk management
Risk management is an increasingly
important board-level consideration for
corporations. Its growing application to
corporate travel is creating additional
opportunities for TMCs.
Security – The Institute of Travel
Management (ITM) reports that traveller
tracking has increased with 76% of
companies saying they can trace a traveller
in an hour compared with 50% in 2006.
These systems interrogate bookings made
through the appointed TMC to list almost
instantaneously which employees are
staying in any given location or are on
board a particular flight. However, unless
travellers book through their company’s
appointed TMC, they cannot be tracked, so
this is increasingly being made mandatory.
Financial/reputational – recent
controversy about travel and meetings
choices by TARP recipients in the US is
putting pressure on companies to track
and analyse their expenditure more
diligently. To a large extent, many
corporations are already obtaining good
data for transient travel, but they have
been less interested in tracking meetings
expenditure, even though companies
such as HRG offer the service. This may
now change. HIGHLIGHTS OF 2009
12 HRG Annual Report 2009
Financial highlights
•
Revenue increased by 5.7% to £351m
– on a constant currency basis, revenues contracted by 3.7%
•
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
of £24.7m (FY08: £27.1m)
•
Effective cash management delivers £25.1m reduction
in net debt
– year-end net debt to EBITDA
(2)
of 2.0x (FY08: 2.5x)
– interest cover of 5.0x (FY08: 4.5x)
•
Full-year dividend of 1.2p per share (FY08: 4.0p)
Business highlights
•
Client retention rate remains above 90%
•
Continued success with net new business wins ahead
of the prior year and a healthy pipeline
•
Strong control of cost base across all regions in H2 to
realign to lower volumes
•
Continuing growth for Spendvision, with revenues up
61% and operating profit up £1.9m
(1) Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items
(2) Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) is before exceptional items,
including HRG’s share of results of associates and joint ventures
0
10
20
30
40
50
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
£m
07 08 09
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
REVENUE
£m
07 08 09 I indicated in last year’s statement that the
business of managed travel for corporate
clients has been, historically, more resilient
than many other travel related businesses
in times of economic uncertainty. This
year’s results support that view.
The global economic crisis that was already
in evidence in the financial sector this time
last year has worsened and spread.
However, the Company has performed in
line with consensus earnings estimates and
has produced an underlying pre-tax profit
at only 9% below last year. Further, with
effective cash management, we have
reduced the year-end net debt by £25m
to £85m. Under the circumstances this is
a very satisfactory achievement.
HRG’s resilience stems from its substantial
fee-based revenue and its ability to adjust
its cost base as circumstances change
without sacrificing the delivery of first class
service to its clients. Given the significant
changes that occurred in the second half
of the year, this active cost management
has helped these results to a small extent
and will contribute significantly more to
the new financial year. This will help offset
the impact of the challenging market on
our future revenues and fee-earning ability.
Further, when combined with our strong
client retention and continuing success in
winning competitive tenders for new
clients, we are confident that we have the
right business model and believe we are
well positioned to benefit from the
economic upturn when it comes.
Cash generation and debt levels are key
areas of focus for us, particularly in the
present climate. After careful consideration,
the Board announced in February 2009
that the Company’s future would be best
protected by re-basing the dividend and
retaining the cash so released. As such, the
interim dividend of 1.2p per share that was
paid in January 2009 will be the only
dividend this year. We remain committed
to a progressive dividend policy and
expect to increase dividends from the re-
based level of 1.2p as soon as it is prudent
to do so. It is likely that one third of future
dividends will be paid as an interim and
two thirds as a final payment. Based on the
31 March 2009 year end share price of
15.5p, our re-based dividend of 1.2p per
share represents a yield of 7.7%.
Pension funding is another important issue
for us. We have recently agreed with the
trustees of our principal scheme in the UK
that, as part of their latest actuarial review
and in spite of the increase in liabilities,
cash contributions would remain at
essentially the same level as agreed at
the time of the IPO in 2006.
Shareholders should be aware that our
investor base has changed significantly
during the course of the last year. Two
industry participants, one a long-term
business partner (Dnata) and the other
(Beverweerd Investments BV) connected
to a prior partner with whom we still have
some surviving joint interests, hold 23%
and 21% of the share capital respectively.
The top ten shareholders hold around 80%
of the total capital of the Company and the
current register includes few of those who
invested at the time of the IPO.
I will leave the detailed discussion of
business performance to the Chief
Executive in his statement, in conjunction
with the Directors’ Report and financial
statements. I hope you agree that, in a
difficult global economy, this has been a
good year for the Company.
Looking forward, we do not expect much
change to the current market conditions
during 2009 and have adjusted our cost
base to reflect that expectation. Our
strategy is unchanged and we remain in
good shape to take advantage of the
economic recovery when it takes place.
In closing, let me on behalf of the Board
thank the executives and staff of every
level who continue to rise to the challenge
of delivering the best client service and
through that, the best possible Company
performance. They hold the future of
the Company in their hands and I know
they will strive tirelessly to build value for
clients, for their fellow employees and
for shareholders.
John Coombe
Chairman
28 May 2009
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
HRG Annual Report 2009 13
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures Our business
HRG is an international corporate travel
services company operating in nearly 120
countries across the world. We are the
UK’s leading provider and one of only
three globally-experienced travel
management companies. The Group
owns or controls operations in 25 markets
throughout Europe, North America and
Asia Pacific and, coupled with a network
of contracted partners, is able to offer a
truly global service.
Our diversified client portfolio ensures that
the Group is not overly exposed to any
individual client or sector. Our top ten
clients account for 22% of total client
revenue, with no single client accounting
for more than 5%. Employee travel for our
largest sector, Banking & Finance, accounts
for less than 20% of client revenue.
The bulk of our revenue comes from
clients who typically sign 3-5 year contracts
with us. Indeed, we have worked with
several clients for more than 15 years.
For the most part, we receive fees from
clients for the work that we do rather than
being dependent on commissions from
suppliers. This work covers a range of
services, from simple bookings to data
analysis and supplier negotiation. We are
not generally exposed to changes in the
class of travel, for example from a switch
from business to economy class. Our fee
arrangements are structured to meet the
needs of each client and include fixed
management fees, variable transaction
fees and cost-plus arrangements.
We also work closely with travel suppliers
such as airlines, rail operators, hotels and
car hire companies where we are able to
improve the efficiency of their distribution
systems. Supplier revenue is generally
covered by service level agreements that
include, in addition to some volume
dependency, promotional support, the
provision of information and support in
establishing more efficient distribution
methods with new technological solutions.
Our market
As the global economic climate
deteriorated through the course of our
financial year, with the recession taking full
effect from around September 2008,
business travel and other indicators of
economic growth began to suffer. Recent
figures released by many of the flag-carrier
airlines and by the International
Association of Travel Agencies have shown
a noticeable move away from premium
cabins. There are similar trends in other
areas of business travel, where clients are
choosing budget hotels and same-day rail
travel to reduce their costs.
However, while the short-term trends are
down, the long-term picture continues to
remain very positive. The latest figures from
the World Travel & Tourism Council show
business travel volume for 2009 at $524
billion and predict growth of around 4%
per annum for the coming decade.
Our strategy
We are building a sustainable business to
deliver value to all stakeholders, including
clients, suppliers, investors and employees,
and our goal is to become the world’s
leading international corporate travel
services company. Our strategy is founded
on the following principles:
• Our core activity is managing travel and
related expenditure for companies who
gain value from such management. They
tend to be either large national or
multinational companies.
• We are client-focussed and see our
clients as partners with mutual interests.
• We are a knowledge-based business and
value people as a major asset.
• We encourage long-term partnerships
with suppliers who recognise our value
to their distribution channels.
• We consistently deliver innovative ideas,
excellent service and value through
motivated and empowered people.
• We use our independent technology to
improve internal efficiency and to
provide our clients with an efficient and
cost effective service.
• We will own or control our operations in
countries where the majority of clients
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
14 HRG Annual Report 2009 initiate and manage their expenditure
consolidation programme; elsewhere we
will form strong partnerships.
• We will seek to manage our business with
low capital intensity and strong cash flow.
Our performance
Overview
HRG delivered a solid performance for the
year under very challenging conditions. On
a reported basis, our revenue rose by 5.7%
to £351m and operating profit was down
by £10.7m to £25.3m. These figures reflect
a net exceptional charge of £5.6m primarily
for restructuring costs partially offset by the
release of accruals relating to acquisitions
made some years ago. Another year of
effective cash management delivered
a significant reduction of £25.1m in our
year-end net debt to £85.3m.
After adjusting for favourable movements
in exchange rates, revenue was down by
3.7%. Underlying operating profit, which is
before amortisation of acquired intangibles
and exceptional items, was down by £3.3m
to £34.6m to produce a margin that was
down from 11.4% to 9.8%.
In many respects, it was a year of two
halves. Our first half performance was
strong and we grew both revenue and
operating profit; the second half was very
different, as the full effect of the recession
took hold and companies everywhere
began to cut back spending. Importantly,
with the majority of our revenue from
client management and advisory fees,
these changes were not as damaging as
many might have thought and our second
half revenue was down by only 8.5% at
constant exchange rates. We reduced our
staffing levels during the latter part of the
year once the pattern of client activity
became clear and, with some further
reductions since year end, our cost base is
now significantly below the March 2008
level and, we believe, appropriate for the
foreseeable future. The cost of these
changes was £6.9m, which has been taken
as an exceptional charge. With these cost
reduction actions now largely complete,
we should be able to maintain profitability
without damaging our ability to react
when market conditions improve.
As a result of these cost reduction actions
we have said goodbye to a number of
colleagues over the last year, many with
long service. I thank them for all they
have given to the Group and wish them
well for the future. It is always difficult to
see colleagues leave and I would like to
thank all of our staff for their hard work
and commitment.
I am pleased to report that we have
maintained our client retention rate above
90% and again won more new business
than we lost. We are being invited to
tender by an increasing number of
prospective new clients and are hopeful
that our past success rate will continue.
All of this has helped keep our business
model robust. Our clear focus on the
individual needs of our clients sets us apart
in the travel management sector and
provides a formula for continuing
profitability and cash flow.
Outlook
We do not expect much change to the
current market conditions during 2009 and
have adjusted our cost base to reflect that
expectation. Trading for April was heavily
influenced by the Easter holidays and
provided no reliable indication of any
change to the short-term outlook. Our
strategy is unchanged and we remain in
good shape to take advantage of the
economic recovery when it takes place.
Client activity
This was another successful year for client
retention and new business.
New clients that we welcomed during
the year included Astellas Pharma, British
Sky Broadcasting, De La Rue, DIRECT TV,
Lenovo, Nationwide Building Society
and Wachovia.
Elsewhere, we have secured new contracts
with substantial new volumes from
existing clients such as BNP Paribas, Kemira,
News Corporation and Smiths Group.
Noteworthy contract renewals included
Axel Springer, Barclays, Condé Nast,
Deutsche Bank, Hennes & Mauritz,
HSBC, Motorola, Prudential,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Royal Bank of
Canada, Sony and Syngenta.
Our drive for more non-cyclical clients
secured a place on the new one-stop
travel management company category
with the UK Government’s Office of
Government Commerce.
Our continued focus on managing the
total cost of trip has resulted in increased
volume of hotel and ground
transportation, including rail, from our
existing clients as they recognise the
value of consolidating all elements of
their travel expenditure with HRG.
Events and meetings management is one
of several services that we provide and we
have now aligned this more closely with
our core managed travel services to existing
clients. This has enabled us to protect
volumes in a competitive market place.
The macroeconomic downturn has created
opportunities for us, as clients become
even more receptive to programme
changes that can reduce their travel costs.
Our expertise in this area helps us to retain
clients and also generate additional fees.
Developments in the marketplace generally,
such as changed supplier inventory
distribution, will provide the opportunity
to lead clients through the complexities of
modern day travel and to provide them
with a wide range of solutions instantly.
Our sales pipeline remains healthy and
we believe that our recent successes, both
in retaining clients and securing new
revenue, will continue into the current
financial year.
Regional review
Europe
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £260.3m £247.8m +5.0%
Operating profit £24.9m £36.2m -£11.3m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£31.9m £34.9m -£3.0m
Underlying
margin
(1)
12.3% 14.1% -1.8%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
HRG Annual Report 2009 15
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 16 HRG Annual Report 2009
The revenue increase of 5.0% includes
an 8.9% benefit from foreign exchange;
underlying operating profit fell by £3.0m
and includes a £1.6m benefit from
foreign exchange.
Our UK business performed relatively well
during the year helped by diligent cost
control and improved productivity from
such things as advanced service
configuration techniques, including
telephony call-flow switching and
increasing ‘virtual’ home working capability.
Over 100 of HRG’s UK-based travel
consultants now work from home and we
expect this number to rapidly grow further.
Our UK Government contract with the
Ministry of Defence and Foreign &
Commonwealth Office was implemented
in full during the year and is now well
established; we are now seeing a significant
increase in hotel volumes in particular as
we expand our work for this client.
Our German business also delivered
a good performance during the year,
helped by contributions from the Euro
2008 Championships in neighbouring
Switzerland and Austria, and the
successful progress of German Bundesliga
teams such as FC Bayern Munich and
Hamburg FC in the UEFA Champions
League and UEFA Cup respectively.
As part of our European restructuring, we
continued to consolidate our branch
network across the region. In the UK we
have focused our operations into core ‘hub’
locations in London, Glasgow and Belfast,
and established ‘specialist’ operating
centres in Manchester (rail), Leicester (hotel
reservations) and Farnborough (24/7
support). In Italy, we consolidated into core
hub locations in Milan, Rome and Matera,
the latter as a low-cost centre in the south
of the country which is partly subsidised
by the Italian Government. In the Nordic
region we will focus on core hub locations
in Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Stockholm,
Malmo and Gothenburg.
North America
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £71.3m £65.3m +9.2%
Operating loss (£0.7m) (£1.3m) +£0.6m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£1.3m £1.6m -£0.3m
Underlying
margin
(1)
1.8% 2.5% -0.7%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
The revenue increase of 9.2% includes a
12.3% benefit from foreign exchange;
underlying operating profit fell by £0.3m,
with little benefit from foreign exchange.
After last year’s investment in infrastructure
and management, it was disappointing to
see volumes fall in the second half of the
year. However, we believe this performance
to be better than the industry overall.
The region tends to favour transaction fees
and, although we acted to reduce our cost
base, the actions proved not to be quick
enough. This has now been rectified and
we expect to see significant benefits from
these cost reduction actions in the
current year.
It was a good year for new business, with
client wins exceeding losses, and this
should help provide a solid foundation for
recovery in the future. There were also
numerous successful client renewals and
contract extensions, including CBC/Radio-
Canada, Deutsche Bank (USA) and Royal
Bank of Canada. Deutsche Bank also added
three consulting projects.
Our chartering business for sports teams
progressed well and now represents
almost two thirds of the National
Basketball Association.
Looking ahead, we anticipate some
positive developments from further
enhancement of our consulting services
and the roll-out of our proprietary
technology products such as HRG
TripPass™, a trip authorisation tool that
manages client pre-trip approvals.
Asia Pacific
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £19.7m £19.1m +3.1%
Operating profit £1.1m £1.1m –
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£1.4m £1.4m –
Underlying
margin
(1)
7.1% 7.3% -0.2%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Following a strong first half, volume
reduced sharply during the second half.
For the full year, the revenue increase of
3.1% includes a 7.3% gain from foreign
exchange. An improved contribution from
Spendvision in this region, together with
cost reduction actions, delivered
underlying operating profit that was
unchanged at £1.4m. Note that operating
profit includes the results from subsidiaries
in Australia and Singapore, but excludes
the results from joint ventures in Hong
Kong and mainland China.
Our largest market in this region, Australia,
suffered most from the lower volumes.
On the positive side, our contract with
the Queensland Government to provide
a fully integrated travel and expense
management system has now been
implemented following an extensive pilot
phase. This system enables the client to
handle the process from travel authorisation
to expense reclaim through a single
application environment. Using our HRG
Universal Super Platform™ (USP) this
modular delivery will give clients the choice
of individual or a full suite of products.
Singapore performed relatively well by
reducing costs as volumes declined. We
have recently implemented a significant
win in this market and this should provide
a good start to the new financial year.
It was a similar story of swift cost reduction
action in Hong Kong and mainland China,
where both joint ventures were able to
react quickly to the second half volume
declines in order to maintain performance. HRG Annual Report 2009 17
Spendvision
HRG’s Spendvision expense management
business provides expense management
solutions via the internet. Its technology
automates the way employees process
their expense claims and gives a company
better control and visibility of its indirect
expenses. Spendvision operates in many
countries; its appeal is broad and many of
its clients are not HRG corporate travel
clients. It remains an exciting long-term
opportunity for the Group.
The Spendvision results are included in the
regional results above. This was another
year of rapid growth, with revenue
increasing by 61% and the addition of
£1.9m to underlying operating profit.
The increase in revenue was driven by
existing and new customers, with growth
from partners using the Spendvision
platform with their own branding and
growth in the Spendvision.com expense
management product.
Technology
Technology remains a critical success
factor in our business, even more so during
tough economic times when our clients
place more demands on us than usual for
finding more innovative ways to reduce
their travel costs. Our decision, made
some years ago, to develop and own our
technology has proved to be the right one
since it gives us the necessary flexibility to
ensure that our focus remains on serving
the individual needs of our clients. It has
also afforded HRG a unique advantage
over peers that are dependent on using
third-party technology solutions.
The development and deployment of our
own technology continued during the
year. Central to our progress in this area is
our technology business platform (USP)
which addresses, among other things,
the problem of increasing fragmentation
of supply and enables HRG to provide a
common base from which to link front-end
booking applications to suppliers and
their services. We are now steadily linking
inventory to end-user clients and HRG
travel consultants via USP through a staged
roll-out of product applications.
More technology products continue to be
linked to the USP . During the year we
deployed our new i-Suite product and HRG
Online, our new online booking tool, with
great success. The HRG Point of Sale
(Agency Desktop) application continues to
evolve with pilots undertaken in the USA
and the UK in two separate suppliers, and
our new reporting suite is currently under
test prior to deployment. We also installed
a full version of the application into one of
our major partners, and have appeared in
several Microsoft promotional activities
including a video on why and how we
implemented our Structured Orientated
Architecture strategy.
During the year, we renegotiated a number
of core IT infrastructure contracts and
undertook process efficiency reviews
across the business. In the latter part of last
year we started the call for technology
integration standards in the industry by
bringing together key suppliers. The
fragmentation of information, and to some
extent inventory content, is creating a
breakdown in what has historically been
a seamless environment. Our suppliers
recognise that we need to work
proactively together to ensure our
mutual clients realise the benefits of
one simple-to-use solution.
Awards
We remain dedicated to our clients and are
proud that our high standards of client
service continue to win recognition in our
industry. In the past year, major industry
awards have included:
• Best Corporate Team 2008/9 (Institute
of Travel Management)
• Accommodation Innovation Award –
UK Hotel Service (Business Travel Show
Innovation Awards 2009)
• Technology Innovation Award –
HRG Universal Super Platform™
(Business Travel Show Innovation
Awards 2009)
• Best THALYS Distributor, 2008 to HRG
Belgium (SNCB Phileas Awards)
• Best Account Management Team to
HRG UK (Jet Airways)
• Best Business Travel Management
Company, Diamond to HRG UK (Buying
Business Travel Diamond Awards)
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
28 May 2009
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures Q&A WITH DAVID RADCLIFFE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
18 HRG Annual Report 2009
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
Q: It’s been a tough year.
How do you feel about
HRG’s results?
A: These are extraordinary times that we are
experiencing. The near collapse of financial
markets around the world has led to a
global recession and this in turn has resulted
in very demanding market conditions in the
travel industry and elsewhere. Historically,
business travel has proved pretty resilient in
times of economic uncertainty. Our results
this year bear testament to this resilience
with underlying revenue down by only 3.7%
and operating profit margin down from
11.4% to 9.8%. Given the challenging
conditions this is a solid and satisfactory
performance.
Q: Which sectors are
performing well for you?
A: We have a very broad and diversified
portfolio of clients and this is one of the
factors that has provided relative
robustness to our revenue. The enormous
changes that we have witnessed in the
Banking and Financial Services sectors
resulted in fewer travel bookings and
changes in travel patterns for many of
our clients in these sectors. However even
within these sectors the trend is not
universal and we have seen increased
traffic on certain routes.
Elsewhere, travel activity in many other
sectors, for example Pharmaceuticals
& Healthcare and Energy has either
continued largely unchanged or even
increased. A key thing to remember is
that in times like these our role is to help
our clients reduce their expenditure.
Q: Many companies are seeking to
cut their overall travel expenditure
by switching staff from first and
business to economy class travel.
Is that damaging your business?
A: Approximately 85% of HRG’s total
revenue comes from what we term
‘managed clients’ , so the majority of our
business is about helping our corporate
clients manage their travel and related
expenditure more efficiently. In the current
macroeconomic climate, the focus for
most of our clients is on reducing their
overall travel spend.
There are a number of ways that we are
able to help our clients cut their travel
costs including providing advice on
changes to their travel policies, helping
them negotiate better deals with suppliers,
switching them to cheaper suppliers, for
example away from full service carriers
to budget airlines, managing video-
conferencing facilities and the introduction
of HRG’s travel-booking technology, for
example our self-booking tools.
An important thing to note is that in
almost all cases clients pay us for the work
that we do for them. We are rarely paid
on commissions for selling tickets – those
days are long past. There is therefore little
effect on HRG from booking a client into
an economy class seat rather than one in
first or business class.
Q: But haven’t some of your
clients simply stopped travelling
in the current crisis?
A: As the global economic downturn
accelerated during the second half of our
financial year, a few of our clients did
impose travel bans in order to cut their
travel costs. However, this proved in almost
all cases to be a temporary measure.
For most of our managed clients, travel is
a necessary element of their ability to
function properly as a business.
For the most part, our managed clients are
still travelling and their increased focus on
reducing travel costs continues to offer us
opportunities to provide them with
innovative solutions to suit their needs.
We are working hard to help our clients
reduce their travel and related expenditure
whilst benefiting from the provision of
additional travel-related activities and
services that contribute to our bottom line.
Q: The global banking industry
is in a state of turmoil and there
has been much publicity around
closures and staff redundancies.
Given the importance of banking
clients to HRG, isn’t this having a
crushing effect on your business?
A: Clearly HRG is not immune to the
effects of closures and staff redundancies
amongst its corporate clients. With fewer
of a client’s staff travelling, the overall travel
management needs are correspondingly
reduced. Put simply, it becomes a smaller
client to HRG. In such cases, we will make
a corresponding reduction in the cost
which is associated with such a client.
In this way, we are able to maintain our
overall profit margin.
It is worth noting that HRG is a global
business. Our client base is very diverse,
which reduces the potential impact on
the Group from weaknesses in any single
client or sector. Our top ten clients
account for only 22% of our total revenue
and, although Banking is our most
important sector, their employee travel
traditionally accounts for less than 20%
of our total revenue. Many of our client
relationships are long-standing and have
multi-year contracts.
Q: What product/service
innovations are you offering
your clients to help them cope
with the prevailing economic
and market conditions?
A: We have seen a new and determined
focus by many of our clients as they
seek to reduce their travel and related
expenditure. Many clients are now far
more receptive to ideas put to them by
HRG than in the past, particularly where
these will result in a reduction in their
travel spend. Clients are also more
receptive in the current climate to HRG’s HRG Annual Report 2009 19
technology solutions in order that they
are able to gain greater booking
efficiencies and faster access to data. Our
decision to own and develop our own
technology solutions has proved to be
the right one as it gives us flexibility to
meet our and our clients’ needs for low
cost, highly efficient access to supplier
inventory, data and information.
In recent months, we unveiled
enhancements in three flagship
technology products: HRG Online™, our
proprietary self service reservation tool that
allows users to make air, hotel, parking and
rail bookings, HRG Reporting™, a global
tool that provides corporate travel buyers
with customised data to ensure that their
travel programme delivers maximum value,
and HRG Travel Watch™, our intelligent
web-enabled reporting tool that enables
clients to locate their travellers anywhere
in the world at anytime and monitor
compliance to corporate policy.
Q: When do you expect
the market to recover?
A: We expect macroeconomic
conditions to remain challenging for the
foreseeable future. Therefore the decline
in premium travel is likely to continue.
Like most people in our industry, we do
not expect to see market conditions
improve during 2009.
Q: Are you comfortable
with the level of debt on your
balance sheet?
A: In an ideal world we would of course
prefer to have a lower level of debt, but
it is a legacy of HRG’s exit from private
ownership, so we are where we are.
Our principal banking facility was
negotiated at attractive rates well before
the current global financial crisis emerged
and is committed until September 2011.
The covenants are set at very conventional
levels and we believe that we have
adequate headroom.
Nevertheless, the Board considers debt
reduction to be a priority in the present
climate.
Q: When do you envisage
being able to resume paying
a dividend?
First, we have not stopped paying
dividends but we have reduced them for
this year. We paid an interim dividend
of 1.2p per share for the year ended
31 March 2009.
We are not paying a final dividend but
remain committed to a progressive
dividend policy and expect to increase
dividends from the re-based level of 1.2p
per share as soon as it is prudent to do so.
Q: Are you happy with your
investment in Spendvision?
Is it working well?
A: Operationally, we are very pleased
with its performance although its
contribution to HRG’s overall result is still
quite small. However, it continues to
grow steadily. We are working hard to
integrate its online expense management
services more effectively with our
managed travel clients.
Q: Is online travel booking
a threat to HRG?
A: At HRG, we treat online booking as
simply another method of distribution;
we incorporate it into the managed travel
service that we provide to our clients. This
means that the client is presented with all
of the appropriate information to enable
travel bookings to be made that meet the
traveller’s specific needs whilst remaining
within their travel policy. We work with a
number of online self-service reservations
systems, including our own, and have a
number of clients who are at over 50%
usage. This, in turn, helps us to save further
costs for the client and utilise our own staff
more efficiently.
Q: What is your long-term
outlook for HRG?
A: HRG has changed dramatically in recent
years in terms of the extent and quality of
our service offering, and the scale and
reach of our business. At the same time,
the size of the global corporate travel
market has expanded enormously in line
with general outsourcing trends.
Our primary focus is on delivering
exemplary service to our clients. HRG is the
only independent pure-play international
travel management company and one of
only three experienced global ones. Over
200 of our clients use us for their travel in
more than one country, and this figure is
growing. I am encouraged by the trend to
consolidate travel and related expenditure.
HRG has a unique set of self-developed
technology tools that are changing the
face of corporate travel management,
enabling real-time connectivity between
the client, suppliers and global
distribution systems.
So, all things considered, I believe HRG
is very well placed for the medium and
long term.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 20 HRG Annual Report 2009
Revenue
The revenue increase of 5.7% represents a
3.7% decline at constant exchange rates
offset by a 9.4% increase from favourable
currency translation. At constant exchange
rates, revenue increased by 1.8% in the first
half and decreased by 8.5% in the
second half.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses, excluding exceptional
items, increased by 7.7% (£23.0m) to
£320.4m. Personnel costs, which represent
approximately two thirds of the total, were
up by 7.4% (£14.4m) and other expenses
were up by 8.3% (£8.6m). Other expenses
include an increase of £1.0m for
depreciation and amortisation as a result
of continuing investment in technology
and an increase of £0.6m for amortisation
of acquired intangibles from changes in
exchange rates.
At constant exchange rates, operating
expenses, excluding exceptional items,
decreased by 2.5% compared to a
decrease of 1.8% in the average number
of employees. At the year end, there
were 10% fewer employees than the
prior year end.
Underlying operating profit
The decrease of £3.3m includes a benefit of
£1.6m from favourable currency translation.
The underlying operating profit margin,
which is not affected by currency
movements, declined from 11.4% to 9.8%.
Exceptional items
The net cost of exceptional items was
£5.6m for the year, compared to a net
benefit of £1.2m in the prior year.
The current year includes restructuring
costs of £6.9m, a benefit of £1.6m from
unutilised accruals related to acquisitions
in prior years and a cost of £0.3m in respect
of an adjustment to goodwill in Germany
associated with recognition of additional
deferred tax assets on acquisitions in earlier
years. This latter item is offset by a deferred
tax credit and therefore has no impact on
net earnings for the year.
The prior-year net benefit was due to a
favourable £4.4m arbitration settlement,
partially offset by a £2.4m charge for costs
associated with a long-standing contract
and £0.8m in respect of an adjustment to
goodwill in Germany associated with
recognition of additional deferred tax assets.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs reduced by £0.9m to
£10.0m, with lower net external interest of
£1.6m primarily offset by higher IAS 19,
Employee Benefits, costs of £0.8m. These
figures include an additional cost of £0.3m
due to changes in exchange rates.
As a result of reducing interest rates,
external interest costs decreased by £1.6m
to £8.4m and were covered 5.0 times by
EBITDA before exceptional items (FY08:
4.5x). The average net debt during the
year was very similar to the prior year.
Typical working capital requirements
are much higher than the levels reported
in March.
The net finance costs relating to pension
accounting under IAS 19 were increased
by £0.8m to £1.2m for the year. The charge
for the year to 31 March 2010 will increase
by a further £1.8m to £3.0m.
Overview
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £351.3m £332.2m +5.7%
Underlying earnings
(1)
– Operating profit £34.6m £37.9m -£3.3m
– Profit before tax £24.7m £27.1m -£2.4m
– Earnings per share (p) 4.7p 5.4p -13.0%
Reported earnings
– Profit before tax £15.4m £25.2m -£9.8m
– Earnings per share (p) 2.4p 5.5p -56.4%
Free cash flow
(2)
£40.1m £11.6m +£28.5m
Net debt £85.3m £110.4m -£25.1m
(1) Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items
(2) Free cash flow is the change in net debt before acquisitions and disposals, dividends and the impact of
foreign exchange movements
FINANCIAL REVIEW Taxation
The tax charge for the year represents an
overall tax rate of 41% of the reported
profit before tax, compared to an overall
rate of 31% in the prior year. These
composite rates include non-recurring tax
items together with the tax on exceptional
items. Excluding these non-recurring and
exceptional items, the tax rate for the
current year was 37% compared to 33%
in the prior year.
Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is calculated
on the profit attributable to equity
shareholders before amortisation of
acquired intangibles and exceptional items
after charging taxation associated with
those profits of £14.2m (FY08: £16.6m).
2009 2008
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Profit before tax 15.4 25.2
Add/(deduct):
– Amortisation of
acquired intangibles 3.7 3.1
– Exceptional items 5.6 (1.2)
Underlying profit before tax 24.7 27.1
Underlying tax charge (8.8) (9.7)
Underlying profit after tax 15.9 17.4
Less:
– Amounts attributable
to minority interests (1.7) (0.8)
14.2 16.6
number number
mm
Average number of
Ordinary shares issued 304.2 304.9
pence pence
Underlying earnings
per share 4.7 5.4
Dividends
An interim dividend of 1.2p per share was
paid in January 2009 and, as announced in
February 2009, there will be no final
dividend. This leaves the annual dividend
at 1.2p and is covered 3.9 times by
underlying earnings per share.
Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated
by dividing underlying operating profit
plus net share of the result of associates
and joint ventures by average net assets.
Average net assets are based on the
12 month ends for the financial year and
exclude net debt, pension deficits and tax
provisions. Average net assets amounted
to £211.3m (FY08: £195.3m) compared
with £173.8m at the year end (FY08:
£188.0m). The return for the year was
16.4% (FY08: 19.4%).
Cash flow
Free cash flow – which includes all cash
flow except acquisitions and disposals,
dividends and the impact of foreign
exchange movements – increased by
£29.0m to £44.0m, primarily due to
improved working capital. The Group
was able to reduce its working capital
significantly at the year end and expects to
repeat this activity at future half-year and
full-year reporting dates to help remove
uncertainty about compliance with
banking covenants. Capital expenditure
increased by £1.6m to £9.4m due
primarily to continuing investment in
North America and the impact of
changes in exchange rates.
In addition to free cash flow, the other
major cash flow items are related to
acquisitions and dividends. The £3.6m of
net acquisition and disposal spending in
the prior year related to the increased
ownership of Spendvision Holdings
Limited and acquisitions in Belgium and
the Czech Republic. Dividends paid in cash
to shareholders during the year were
£12.0m compared to £11.6m in the prior
year. Looking forward, a dividend of 1.2p
per share paid in cash to all shareholders
on the register at the year end would
cost £3.7m.
Pension obligations
The Group’s pension deficits under IAS 19
have increased by £17.2m to £65.3m
before tax.
The UK scheme deficit increased by
£12.7m to £51.3m. The scheme assets
decreased by £25.1m, primarily as a result
of investment performance. The scheme
liabilities decreased by £12.4m, with
a higher discount rate saving £21.1m,
a lower inflation rate saving £10.3m and
increased life expectancy adding £9.4m.
The effect of a recent agreement with
the trustees is that, as part of the latest
actuarial review, cash contributions would
remain at essentially the same level as
agreed at the time of the IPO in 2006.
Annual cash contributions amount to
15.2% of pensionable salaries plus a deficit
reduction payment of £6.6m per annum.
The total charge against profits increased
by £0.1m to £3.0m.
The overseas schemes are primarily in
Germany and Switzerland, where the
year-end deficit increased by £4.5m to
£14.0m, primarily due to changes in
exchange rates.
At the year end, there was a deferred tax
asset of £14.4m (FY08: £10.8m) related to
the UK deficit and £1.2m (FY08: £0.5m)
related to the overseas schemes.
Funding and net debt
The Group’s principal borrowing is from a
£220m multi-currency revolving credit
facility (RCF) that is committed until
September 2011. The RCF is used for loans,
letters of credit and guarantees with interest
based on LIBOR/EURIBOR plus a margin and
mandatory costs incurred by the lenders. In
addition, there are uncommitted facilities,
amounting to around £26m at year end,
which are used for local flexibility.
The principal banking covenants for the
RCF are measured twice each year, at the
end of March and the end of September,
against EBITDA before exceptional items.
The definition of EBITDA for covenant
purposes is not materially different to the
definition used in these financial
statements. The covenants require that
net debt is less than 3.0 times EBITDA
and external interest is greater than
4.0 times EBITDA.
Net debt at year end reduced by £25.1m to
£85.3m, which was equivalent to 2.0 times
EBITDA before exceptional items (FY08: 2.5
times). Gearing was 47% (FY08: 56%), or
64% (FY08: 69%) including the pension
deficits and related deferred tax assets.
Based on our current forecasts, the Board
believes that these facilities provide
sufficient headroom.
Financial risk management
Financial risks are managed centrally by
the Group treasury department with
policies that are approved by the Board
and which do not allow transactions of
a speculative nature.
HRG Annual Report 2009 21
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
22 HRG Annual Report 2009
The following principal exchange rates have been used in the financial statements:
Income Statement Balance Sheet
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change
Euro 1.20 1.42 +18% 1.08 1.25 +16%
Swiss Franc 1.87 2.32 +24% 1.63 1.97 +21%
US Dollar 1.70 2.01 +18% 1.43 1.99 +39%
Canadian Dollar 1.91 2.07 +8% 1.80 2.04 +13%
Foreign currency risk
The translation of non-Sterling earnings,
assets and liabilities is affected by changes
in exchange rates.
Year-end net debt included £19.1m of
non-Sterling debt (FY08: £54.2m), with
changes in exchange rates, including the
effect of currency swaps, increasing the
reported balance by £6.9m.
The Group’s transaction exposure is limited,
with the majority of its transactions
denominated in the currency of the
country of operation. In the few instances
where there is exposure, short-term
hedges are taken once the exposure can
be accurately identified.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk
on any borrowing at floating interest rates.
The interest rate on the RCF is not currently
fixed, although the Group keeps this
situation under review.
Credit risk
The risk associated with deposits in
commercial banks is managed by
diversifying with a number of well known
financial institutions. The risk associated
with clients and suppliers is deemed low
due to the absence of client concentration
and the large number of countries where
the Group trades.
Liquidity risk
The RCF is committed until September
2011 and used for loans, letters of credit
and guarantees. In addition, the Group
has uncommitted facilities that are used
for local flexibility. The nature and scope
of the Group’s operations mean that
working capital requirements fluctuate
significantly during the year, with
March and September typically being
the lowest levels.
Going concern
The Board believe that the Group has
adequate resources to continue to operate
for the foreseeable future and have
continued to prepare the Consolidated
Financial Statements on a going
concern basis.
Share price
The closing mid-market price at the year
end was 15.5p (FY08: 40p). During the
year, the price ranged from 3.5p to 53.0p
per share.
Julian Steadman
Group Finance Director
28 May 2009 HRG Annual Report 2009 23
Summary income statement
2009 2008
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 351.3 332.2
EBITDA
(1)
before exceptional items 42.3 44.6
Depreciation and amortisation
(2)
(7.7) (6.7)
Underlying operating profit 34.6 37.9
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (3.7) (3.1)
Exceptional items (5.6) 1.2
Share of associates and joint ventures 0.1 0.1
Net finance costs (10.0) (10.9)
Profit before tax 15.4 25.2
Taxation (6.3) (7.7)
Profit for the year 9.1 17.5
Summary balance sheet
2009 2008
As at 31 March £m £m
Goodwill and other intangible assets 258.0 231.4
Property, plant, equipment and investments 17.9 15.4
Working capital (93.7) (55.3)
Current tax liabilities (net) (7.8) (8.2)
Deferred tax assets (net) 32.2 28.8
Net debt (85.3) (110.4)
Pension liabilities (pre-tax) (65.3) (48.1)
Provisions and other items (8.3) (3.6)
Net assets 47.7 50.0
Summary cash flow statement
2009 2008
Years ended 31 March £m £m
EBITDA
(1)
before exceptional items 42.3 44.6
Working capital movements 30.5 0.7
Interest paid (6.9) (9.8)
Tax paid (3.8) (6.0)
Capital expenditure (9.4) (7.8)
Pension funding in excess of EBITDA charge (7.2) (6.5)
Other movements (1.5) (0.2)
Free cash flow 44.0 15.0
Acquisitions and disposals 0.1 (3.6)
Dividends paid to external shareholders (12.0) (11.6)
Other movements (0.1) (1.7)
Net cash flow 32.0 (1.9)
Foreign exchange (6.9) (4.1)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt 25.1 (6.0)
(1) Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
(2) Excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles
The comparatives in the summary cash flow statement have been restated to include dividends paid to minority interests in
‘Other movements’ within free cash flow.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures One team, working together
24 HRG Annual Report 2009
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
JOHN COOMBE DAVID RADCLIFFE JULIAN STEADMAN
GEORGE BATTERSBY TONY ISAAC
BILL BRINDLE CHRIS FRY JACQUI HIGGS
KEITH BURGESS TOM GLEASON KEVIN RUFFLES
STEWART HARVEY JOHN COOMBE
CHAIRMAN, AGE 64
John Coombe is the former Chief Financial
Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc. He is currently a
Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc
and of Home Retail Group plc. He is also a
Trustee of The Royal Academy of Arts Trust.
He is Chairman of the Nominations
Committee of HRG and also a member of
the Remuneration Committee.
GEORGE BATTERSBY
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 62
George Battersby is a main Board Director of
Cable and Wireless plc responsible for Human
Resources. In addition, he is the Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee of HRG and
is a member of both the Audit and
Nominations Committees.
DAVID RADCLIFFE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, AGE 56
David Radcliffe joined the Group in 1978, was
appointed to the Board in 1989 and became
Chief Executive in 1997. Since that time he
has re-positioned the Group as a rounded
corporate services organisation. David is a
Fellow of the Institute of Sales and Marketing
Management and a Companion of the
Institute of Management.
TONY ISAAC
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 67
Tony Isaac was Chief Executive Officer of BOC
Group PLC until 2006 and was a Non-Executive
Director of Hogg Robinson plc until May 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of International
Power plc, where he acts as Senior Independent
Director and is a member of its Audit,
Remuneration and Appointments Committees.
He is also a director of Schlumberger Limited
where he chairs its Nominating and Governance
Committee, its Audit Committee, and is a
member of its Finance Committee. He is
Chairman of the Audit Committee of HRG, and
is a member of both the Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. He also acts as the
Senior Independent Director of HRG.
JULIAN STEADMAN
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR, AGE 55
Julian Steadman joined the Group in
December 2007. Julian’s early career was with
Procter & Gamble in the UK and Belgium and
The Clorox Company in the USA, ultimately
holding the position of Finance Director for its
Food Service Products Division. Since returning
to the UK in 1994, he has held the role of
Group Finance Director with Eyecare Products
plc, Biocompatibles International plc and
Christian Salvesen plc.
HRG Annual Report 2009 25
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BILL BRINDLE
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND
DISTRIBUTION DIRECTOR, AGE 47
Bill Brindle joined HRG in 1998 and has
responsibility for HRG's information technology,
distribution and product development needs.
Since joining HRG, Bill has been instrumental in
driving change systems within the business
focusing on the design, development, delivery
and support of innovative business systems
and architecture.
KEITH BURGESS
GENERAL COUNSEL AND CENTRAL
SERVICES DIRECTOR, AGE 54
Keith Burgess is a Barrister and a fellow of
the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
In addition to the Group’s legal function,
Keith is closely involved in HRG's international
expansion, acquisition and divestment
programme. He also has responsibility for a
number of central service functions including
Insurance, Human Resources and the team
which manages the relationships with HRG’s
worldwide partner network.
CHRIS FRY
COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR, AGE 63
Chris Fry joined Hogg Robinson Group in
1975. He was appointed to the Board of
Hogg Robinson plc in February 1994 and took
up his current position in 2006 and has
responsibility for strategic sales and global bid
support. He is particularly skilled at working
with large national and international clients,
especially when undertaking strategic travel
management reviews.
TOM GLEASON
REGIONAL PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA, AGE 59
Tom Gleason has more than 35 years' corporate
travel experience, gained mainly in senior
positions within American Airlines. He joined
Hogg Robinson Group in 2005 and was
appointed Regional President in 2006. Tom has
a degree in Education and is a Board Member
of British American Business Inc.
STEWART HARVEY
CLIENT MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR, AGE 49
Since joining the Group in 1990, Stewart
Harvey has held a number of increasingly
senior roles through which he has gained
extensive experience of the Group’s client-
facing functions. He was appointed to his
present role as a member of the Executive
Management Team in 2008 and has
responsibility for the Group’s strategic
relationships with its key managed clients.
JACQUI HIGGS
GROUP MARKETING DIRECTOR, AGE 61
During her career with the Group, Jacqui Higgs
has held a number of increasingly senior
positions. She was appointed to her current role
in 2006 and has responsibility for HRG's strategic
marketing, group communications and public
relations including market analysis. Jacqui led
the international team responsible for the
development and global implementation of
the HRG brand.
KEVIN RUFFLES
REGIONAL PRESIDENT EUROPE AND
ASIA PACIFIC, AGE 56
Since joining the Group in 1972, Kevin Ruffles
has held a number of operational roles,
culminating in his appointment to the Board of
Hogg Robinson plc in 1997. He was appointed
Regional President for Asia Pacific in 2006 and
additionally assumed responsibility for Europe
in 2007. His leadership roles have included: UK
e-ticket launch with British Airways; ISO quality
accreditation and implementation throughout
the UK; and the integration of the business
travel interests of Kuoni Holdings.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 26 HRG Annual Report 2009
Directors
J D Coombe
Chairman
(also, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and
member of the Remuneration Committee)
D J C Radcliffe
Chief Executive
J A Steadman
Group Finance Director
A E Isaac
Non-Executive Director
(also, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the
Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and
Remuneration Committees)
G W Battersby
Non-Executive Director
(also, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees)
Company Secretary
K J Burgess
Registered office
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire RG21 3BT
Registered number: 3946303
Telephone: 01256 312 600
Fax: 01256 346 999
Website: www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Legal advisers
Macfarlanes
20 Cursitor Street,
London EC4A 1LT
Financial advisers
Lazard & Co., Limited
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Company brokers
Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Singer Capital Markets Ltd
One Hanover Street
London W1S 1AX
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Hay’s Galleria
1 Hay’s Lane
London SE1 2RD
Registrars
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
COMPANY INFORMATION Our responsibilities...
DIREC TORS’ REPOR T
HRG Annual Report 2008 27 DIREC TORS’ REPOR T
28 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together
with the audited financial statements for the year ended
31 March 2009.
Principal activities
In the year under review, the principal activities of the Group, of
which the Company is the holding company, have been that of
a corporate travel services company providing value-added
services in the global corporate travel market. Within this market
HRG targets the international and national managed sector,
where clients require a range of globally-integrated and tailored
travel and expense management services. Its growth strategy
focuses on achieving increased customer penetration, entry into
new markets, increasing its range of services and developing
new higher margin services for large clients which are attracted
to HRG’s offering of managed corporate travel programmes.
Business Review
In addition to information contained in this report, a review of
the development and performance of the business of the Group
during the year, the position as at 31 March 2009, and expected
future developments are also commented upon in the following
sections of this Annual Report:
Chairman’s Statement page 13
Chief Executive’s Review pages 14 to 17
Financial Review pages 20 to 23
Corporate Governance pages 32 to 34
Remuneration Report pages 35 to 40
Key Performance Measures
The Board believes that the ultimate performance measures
should be financial and have chosen operating profit margin,
free cash flow and earnings per share.
The scale of our business depends on how much our clients
choose to travel. Client contracts generally require that we are
able to provide the required level of service within a specified
range of activity and our challenge is to provide that service at
an acceptable margin.
We monitor the retention rate for existing clients together with
the annualised value of new clients compared against any losses.
With a wide variety of clients and a business model that adapts
to their individual needs, the cost of service varies significantly.
With staff costs representing around two thirds of total operating
expenses across the Group, we monitor revenue per employee
as a measure of staff efficiency.
Risk
Forward-looking information
Discussions regarding financial information contained in the 2009
Annual Report and Financial Statements may contain forward-
looking statements with respect to certain of the plans, current
goals and expectations relating to the future financial condition,
business performance and results of HRG. By their nature, all
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because
they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond
the control of HRG, some of which are set out below. Readers are
cautioned that, as a result, HRG’s actual future financial condition,
business performance and results may differ materially from the
plans, goals and expectations expressed or implied in such
forward-looking statements.
Business risks
HRG operates in a highly competitive market and HRG may not
react adequately to changes in the corporate travel market;
general economic downturns such as the current macro-
economic crisis, terrorism, the fear of terrorism, travel industry
strikes, fuel price escalation, national disasters, health pandemics
or similar events could reduce revenues.
Revenues may also be affected materially if HRG is unable to
secure new or renew existing contracts. Client contracts are
generally non-exclusive and generate fees on a per-transaction
and/or fixed fee basis. HRG is substantially dependent on global
distribution systems (GDS) and other suppliers for certain
inventory and revenue; HRG’s success depends on the efficiency
of its systems, third party systems and the ability to integrate its
systems with clients, suppliers and third parties.
HRG’s long-term strategy includes undertaking acquisitions and this
involves integration risks. HRG is also reliant on its key executives.
Risks relating to HRG’s markets
In most markets, HRG requires licences to operate its businesses
which could be lost; regulatory and legal changes may also
impose burdens on HRG which have not yet been foreseen. The
loss of a partner from HRG’s global network could also lead to
lack of market coverage.
Risks relating to HRG’s defined benefit pension schemes
HRG operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, the
largest of which is a closed scheme relating to UK employees.
Although the deficit in the UK defined benefit scheme was
substantially reduced as a result of the IPO in 2006, in common
with many companies which operate such schemes, HRG’s
defined benefit schemes remain in deficit. Further details relating
to HRG’s pension obligations are set out in note 21 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. HRG Annual Report 2009 29
Risks relating to the Ordinary shares of HRG
Exchange rate fluctuations may affect an investor whose
principal currency is not Pounds Sterling; certain non-UK
shareholders may also not be able to exercise pre-emption
rights in all circumstances.
Results and dividends
Notwithstanding the unprecedented crisis in financial markets, the
Group recorded a profit before tax for the year of £15.4m (2008:
£25.2m) on increased revenues of £351.3m (2008: £332.2m).
Full details of the financial performance of the Group during the
year are contained in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.2p per Ordinary
Share for the year ended 31 March 2009 (2008: 1.2p) which was
paid on 6 January 2009. In its Interim Management Statement on
12 February 2009 the Company announced that, in the prevailing
economic climate, the Board presently places high value on the
security of funding and debt reduction and that it was not going
to recommend a final dividend for the year. Accordingly the
dividend for the full year will be 1.2p per share, all of which was
paid in January 2009. At last year’s final dividend level, this will
save the Company approximately £8.6m in cash and will
strengthen the balance sheet.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy
and expects to increase dividends from the re-based level of 1.2p
as soon as it is prudent to do so.
The Company’s practice has been to pay approximately one-third
of its anticipated dividend for the full year by way of an interim
dividend following its half-yearly results with the balance of the full
year dividend being proposed when announcing its results for the
year. The Directors expect to continue that practice in future years.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company all of whom held office
throughout the year, were as follows:
J D Coombe* Chairman
D J C Radcliffe Chief Executive
J A Steadman Group Finance Director
G W Battersby*
A E Isaac*#
* Non-Executive Directors
# Senior Independent Director
George Battersby and Tony Isaac will retire at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the
Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to
40. Other than contracts for service there were no significant
contracts between the Directors and any member company of
the Group during or at the end of the year.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company currently has no controlling shareholder.
As at 27 May 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of the Annual Report, the Company had been
notified of the following interests by shareholders who held
more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shares %
Dnata 71,261,277 23.15
Beverweerd Investments BV 64,826,602 21.06
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 26,255,356 8.59
Artemis Investment Management 25,363,037 8.24
Permira 22,114,644 7.19
Legal & General 10,860,800 3.27
Share capital
A total of 929,819 fully paid Ordinary Shares were issued during
the year in satisfaction of those Shareholders who had elected to
accept a scrip dividend alternative in respect of the cash dividends
due and payable during the year ended 31 March 2009. No other
shares have been issued during the year. The Company’s
authorised, issued and fully paid share capital as at 31 March
2009 is as set out in the table below. There are no treasury shares
to which voting rights are attached.
Authorised
Number Amount Nominal value
513,808,171 £5,138,081.71 £0.01 each
Issued and fully paid
Number Amount
307,762,884 £3,077,628.84
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 21 July
2008, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the
market, up to 30,683,306 Ordinary Shares of 1p each. The Company
did not use this authority to make any purchases of its own shares
during the period. At the Annual General Meeting to be held on
29 July 2009, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority,
details of which are contained in the accompanying circular to
shareholders. Details of the Company’s interests in its own shares
are set out in note 22 to the financial statements on page 77.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures DIREC TORS’ REPOR T
CONTINUED
30 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
Share based incentive schemes
Details of the share-based incentive schemes operated by the
Group are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to
40 and in note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no post balance sheet events.
Pensions
The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
On this basis, the deficit in the Group’s pensions schemes at
31 March 2009 was £65.3m (2008: £48.1m). As with most pension
schemes, assets are invested for the long term to meet long term
liabilities but the deficit referred to above reflected market
conditions as at 31 March 2009. Further details of pension matters
are set out in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employees
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and of
any factors affecting their employment. Annual Reports are
made available to all staff and there is a comprehensive internal
communications programme through which management
communicate with employees, and employees are encouraged
to assist in the Group’s development.
Fair and full consideration is given to applications for employment
from disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes
and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the employment of
those who become disabled. Training, career development and
promotion opportunities are, as far as practicable, identical for all
employees. The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and
employ suitably qualified, capable and experienced people in an
environment of equal opportunity.
The Group aims to maintain a high standard of safe and healthy
working conditions comparable with the best practices in the
particular industry in which it operates.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises its responsibility to conduct business in a
manner which engages positively so as to ensure that it reflects
the social standards of all HRG’s stakeholders.
The following is a summary of HRG’s approach to each of the
areas on which it has adopted detailed policies reflecting its
corporate social responsibility:
How we do business
We recognise that our shareholders have invested in our
business and the success of our business will directly influence
the value of their investment. We work cooperatively with our
suppliers and business partners, choosing those who share our
values and strive for mutual trust and benefit. We recognise the
importance of managing environmental, social and governance
risks through our business practices and work hard to maintain
our reputation for honesty, integrity and respect for people.
How we treat our employees
We respect our employees’ individuality and diversity, require
them to live up to our values and provide the encouragement
and opportunity to develop their careers. We recruit and
promote on suitability and merit and recognise the vital role
our people play in providing excellent client service. We are
committed to attracting, motivating and retaining the best
talent, and will maintain our reputation as a company of choice.
How we treat our clients
We constantly look to offer our clients superior products and
services that provide good value. We aim to give them the
highest quality service and strive to offer them the best
economic and environmental choices.
How we behave in our communities
We strive to behave as responsible corporate citizens globally
and good, supportive neighbours in our local communities.
How we deal with the environment
The Group’s trading activities have only a marginal direct impact
on the environment and contribute minimally to pollution. The
Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner that
shows responsibility towards the environment and in ensuring
high standards of health and safety for its employees. The Group
complies with statutory and mandatory requirements and where
practicable aims to exceed regulations applicable to its areas of
business. Working practices are routinely monitored as improved
techniques and technologies become available.
HRG strives to constantly develop its approach to corporate
social responsibility. Detailed copies of HRG’s current policies
on each of these areas and the way in which it seeks to
implement them are available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com). HRG Annual Report 2009 31
Donations
The Group has made charitable donations during the year
totalling £0.1m (2008: £0.1m). Of the total charitable donations
made in the year £0.01m (2008: £0.04m) was made by the
Group and the remainder was paid on behalf of employees.
No political donations were made during the year (2008: £nil).
Financial instruments
A statement of the Group’s policies in relation to financial instruments
is set out in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Policy for paying suppliers
The Group’s current policy concerning the payment of its trade
creditors and other suppliers is to:
(a) settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when
agreeing the terms of each transaction;
(b) ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
(c) pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal
obligations.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy. Overseas
subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies by applying
local best practice. The figure for trade creditors for the Group at
the end of the financial year represents 10 days purchases (2008:
9 days). The Company has no trade creditors (2008: nil).
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director of the Company confirms that; (a) so far as he is
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and (b) that he has taken all the
steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors
to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 July 2009. The
resolutions to be proposed at the AGM together with explanatory
notes are contained within the Notice of Meeting which has been
despatched to shareholders with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
28 May 2009
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
32 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
Statement of compliance
The Board has at all times been guided by the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’) in seeking to achieve the
highest standards of business integrity, ethics, and
professionalism across all of the Company’s activities. This report
sets out the manner in which the main and supporting
principles of Section 1 of the Code have been applied. HRG has
complied with the Code throughout the year and is committed
to maintaining that compliance.
Board of Directors
The Board has five members: the Chairman, two further Non-
Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The
effectiveness of the Board is underpinned by a balance between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Board believes
that this brings together the appropriate skills and experience
necessary to provide effective leadership and control of the
Company. The biographies of the Directors appear on page 25.
Board responsibilities, balance and effectiveness
Collectively, the Board is responsible to Shareholders for setting
the direction of the business and monitoring the Group’s
performance. It is also responsible for ensuring that an effective
internal control environment exists, and that the risks associated
with the business are appropriately managed. It defines and sets
the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring that sufficient
financial and human resources are in place to meet those
objectives. The Board meets its commitment to the strategic
direction and control of the Group by meeting regularly
throughout the year. In addition to a schedule of regular meetings
the Board also meets on an unscheduled basis as the need arises.
The executive element of the Board is balanced by independent
Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual or group of
individuals can dominate the Board’s decision making. The
Group’s Non-Executive Directors are regarded as independent
and free from any business or other relationship that could
materially interfere with their judgement. The provisions of the
Companies Act 2006 relating to Directors’ conflicts were
incorporated into the Company’s Articles of Association which
were adopted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company
held on 21 July 2008. The Board intends to follow emerging best
practice in line with the GC100’s guidance paper on directors’
conflicts of interest and also to report annually as part of the
Corporate Governance Report. No conflicts of interest have been
noted or authorised by the Board during the year.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is maintained.
The conduct of business
The Company has established business values and standards for
the Group, which provide a framework for the corporate social
responsibility which the Board expects the Company to observe
in balancing the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct
of business. These values and standards are commented on in
more detail in the Directors’ Report (commencing at page 27)
and are also available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved to it for decision including the Group’s business
strategy, annual budget, annual and interim financial results,
dividends, and major corporate activities, such as the making of
investments, acquisitions and disposals. It also considers regular
reports from the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and
operating reports from individual divisions or functions.
Complete, timely and relevant information is provided to the
Board to ensure that informed judgements are made in pursuit
of the Group’s objectives.
The Board also reviews the performance of management in
meeting business objectives, plans the succession of key
executives, and determines appropriate remuneration levels
through the Remuneration Committee. The operational
management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive
who manages this through an Executive Management Team
which meets according to a regular schedule and also on an ad
hoc basis as the need arises. The composition of the Executive
Management Team is set out on page 25.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
The Non-Executive Directors provide an independent and
constructive challenge to the business development plans that
are proposed by executive management. Through their
membership of the Board committees they also have
responsibility for:
– overseeing that the systems of internal control and risk
management are appropriate and effective;
– managing the relationship with the external auditors;
– evaluating the performance of the management teams in
meeting targets and objectives;
– setting the remuneration of Executive Directors and approving
the Chief Executive’s recommendations as to the remuneration
of the Executive Management Team; and
– planning senior management succession.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Tony Isaac.
In this capacity, he is an additional contact point for Shareholders
should they feel that their concerns are not being addressed
through normal channels.
Board development and training
Newly appointed Directors receive a comprehensive induction
programme, and training is provided for Directors on their roles
and legal obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant
with their responsibilities as Directors.
Directors are also kept informed of changes to relevant
regulatory regimes, and new institutional investor guidelines.
All of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and also to external independent advice
should they so wish. HRG Annual Report 2009 33
Performance of the Board
The Board conducted a review of its efficiency at the end of the
prior year following which some minor adjustments to the
procedures of the Board and its Committees were implemented.
Overall, the Board remains satisfied that the current Board systems
and structures are appropriate to the needs of the business and will
conduct a further review of its efficiency during the coming year.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director, met without the Chairman
present to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman,
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors. The
Chairman also met the other Non-Executive Directors during the
year, without the Executive Directors being present, in order to
review the operation of the Board. In addition, the Chairman had
a meeting with each Non-Executive Director to review their
contribution to the Board.
During the year, the Board met on seven occasions; all Directors
attended each of these meetings.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s
Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-
election on a rotational basis every three years and newly
appointed Directors are subject to election by the Shareholders
at the first AGM after their appointment.
Board Committees
The Company has established an Audit Committee, a
Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee. No
person other than a committee member is entitled to attend the
meetings of these Committees, except at the invitation of the
Committee. The terms of reference of the Committees are
available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two Independent Non-
Executive Directors (other than the Chairman), chaired by Tony
Isaac, who has significant and recent relevant financial
experience. In addition to the members of the Committee,
regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings at the
invitation of the Committee have included the Chairman, the
CEO, the Group Finance Director, representatives of the external
auditors, the head of internal audit, the head of financial
reporting and the Company Secretary. The Committee met on
three occasions during the year to 31 March 2009 and all
members attended all of the meetings.
The Audit Committee meets not less than three times a year and
at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee requires.
At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of
financial reporting and related matters including the half-year
results prior to their submission to the Board. The Committee
focused in particular on critical accounting policies and practices
adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement
that may materially impact reported results. It also monitored the
internal controls that are operated by management to ensure
the integrity of information reported to Shareholders. The
Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s
external auditors. It has advised the Board on the appointment,
independence, and objectivity of the external auditors and on
their remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory
audit with the external auditors. The Audit Committee carries out
an independent assessment of the suitability and performance
of the external auditors in making its recommendation to the
Board for their reappointment.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual
internal audit plan for the Group, to ensure that the internal audit
function is adequately sponsored and resourced. Its terms of
reference also provide for it to review the whistle-blowing
arrangements for staff.
At the meeting to review the 2009 Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the Committee considered the level of non-audit
services being provided by the Group’s external auditors in order
to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence of the
external auditors is safeguarded. The lead audit partner is rotated
every five years.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman, John
Coombe, and the two Non-Executive Directors, Tony Isaac and
George Battersby, who acts as the Committee’s Chairman. The
Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring the
performance of the Executive Directors of the Company and
other senior executives of the Group against targets and for
making recommendations to the Board on remuneration.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has taken advice
on remuneration from Kepler Associates (in relation to overall
remuneration strategy, and also in relation to the design and
structure of share-based incentive schemes). Kepler Associates is
independent from the Company. The Committee met on two
occasions during the year to 31 March 2009 and all members
were in attendance. Details of the activities of the Remuneration
Committee are given in the Remuneration report on page 35.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for matters of Board
structure, management succession and the identification and
appointment of Directors. The Committee comprises the
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The
Chairman of the Committee is John Coombe. The Committee
meets when appropriate.
Communication with Shareholders
The Board attaches importance to the effectiveness of its
communications with Shareholders. The Board has initiated
dialogue with institutional Shareholders and the financial
community. This has included presentations of the preliminary
and half-year results, and also includes regular meetings with
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
34 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
major Shareholders and industry analysts. All Shareholders and
potential Shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report and
other significant information about HRG on the Company’s
website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM
which is to be held on 29 July 2009, where they will have the
opportunity to receive comprehensive information on the
Group’s business activities and to question senior management
about business issues and prospects. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration, and Nominations Committees will be available to
answer any questions on the work of the Committees. All
Shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to
the AGM. All proxy votes will be counted and the level of proxy
votes lodged for each resolution will be reported at the AGM
and on the Company’s website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in
safeguarding Shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. Such
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. Within the Group, managers are
responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant
risks applicable to their areas of business together with the
design and operation of appropriate internal controls to ensure
effective mitigation. These risks, identified in the context of
business objectives, are assessed on a continual basis and may
be associated with a variety of internal and external events,
including control breakdowns, competition, disruption,
regulatory requirements and natural and other shocks.
Risk management software is used at all major sites, and for key
central functions, which provides management with access to all
identified risks at a business, corporate and Group level, together
with details of how the risks are being dealt with. From this, the
Executive Management Team reviews on a regular basis the risk
management and control process and considers:
– the authority, resources, and coordination of those involved in
the identification, assessment and management of significant
risks faced by the Group;
– the response to the significant risks which have been
identified by management and others; and
– the maintenance of a control environment directed towards
the proper management of risk.
A process of self-certification has also been established within
the Group which provides a documented and auditable trail of
accountability for the operation of the system of internal control.
This is complemented by the activities of the internal audit
function which also provides a degree of assurance as to the
operation and validity of the system of internal control. Planned
corrective actions are independently monitored for their timely
completion.
The internal audit function works to a programme which is
structured to address the risks identified by the Group and is
integrated across all business and functional dimensions in order
to reduce overlap or gaps in coverage.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal control that has been in operation during the year
ended 31 March 2009. In particular, the Executive Management
Team has reviewed and updated the identification and
evaluation of significant risks affecting the business and the
manner in which they are managed. The results of this exercise
have been reviewed and endorsed by the Audit Committee
and the Board. REMUNERATION REPOR T
HRG Annual Report 2009 35
Membership and terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-
Executive Directors, George Battersby and Tony Isaac, together with
the Chairman of the Company, John Coombe. The Committee is
chaired by George Battersby and is responsible for monitoring the
performance of the Executive Directors and the Executive
Management Team of the Company against targets, and for making
recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy generally.
During the year, the Committee was advised by Kepler
Associates on remuneration strategy, incentive design and
market data. Kepler Associates were appointed by the
Committee in 2006 and provide no other services to the Group.
Additional assistance was received from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy
When deciding appropriate levels of salary and other forms of
remuneration, the Committee takes into account:
– the annual and continuing performance of each Director
within his sphere of operation;
– the requirement to ensure that executive remuneration is
aligned with the interest of shareholders;
– the Company’s need to provide sufficiently attractive
remuneration packages for the recruitment and retention of
Executives able to provide direction and motivation; and
– appropriate market rates. In judging appropriate market
salaries, the Committee considers external benchmarking
research undertaken for them by Kepler Associates.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy
on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual Directors. The Committee’s objective is to
ensure that at least 40% of each Executive Director’s potential
remuneration is variable and linked to performance. Fixed pay
includes salary and contributions towards pension arrangements;
the variable element of pay comprises annual bonus and long term
incentives. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Elements of remuneration
Basic salaries
Individual basic salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee
taking into account market rates, personal performance and
any changes in responsibility. There is to be no annual salary
increase for Key Management (i.e. Executive Directors and
members of the Executive Management team) in respect of the
year commencing 1 April 2009 following a nil increase in 2008.
Non-cash benefits (other than pensions)
The Company provides a package of employment benefits for
Executive Directors. Principal elements include a fully expensed
company car, life insurance, private health insurance, personal
accident insurance and permanent disability insurance, none of
which are pensionable.
Annual Bonus Plan
In addition to salary, all Executive Directors are eligible for an
annual performance-related bonus, which is non-pensionable.
The Committee believes it is important that the Executive
Directors have a substantial part of their annual remuneration
based on performance. For the year ending 31 March 2010, the
Committee has determined that a bonus of 40% of base salary
will be payable to Key Management for on-target achievement
against financial targets (principally profitability), and would
reach a maximum of 80% of base salary for out-performance
of such targets by levels which the Committee regards as
appropriately stretching. In determining whether bonuses are
payable for the year ending 31 March 2010, the Committee will
also have regard to the quality of earnings.
The total remuneration received or receivable by the Directors
holding office during the year ended 31 March 2009 is set out in
Table 1 at the end of this report. No bonus was payable to any
Executive Director in respect of the year ending 31 March 2009
following a nil bonus in 2008.
Pensions
With effect from 8 April 2008, the Company consented to David
Radcliffe’s withdrawal from the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension
Scheme (“the Scheme”), reflecting the fact that he has exceeded
the maximum capped entitlement under pensions legislation.
Thereafter, David Radcliffe’s pension entitlement has been
replaced with a direct contribution arrangement under which a
non-pensionable payment is made equal to 22% of his base salary.
Julian Steadman also has a direct contribution arrangement
under which he receives a non-pensionable payment of 30% of
his base salary.
Details of Directors’ pension benefits are set out in Tables 1 and 2
at the end of this report.
Directors Service Agreements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have continuing service contracts with the
Company which are subject to termination by the Company giving
not less than 12 months’ written notice or by the Executive Director
giving not less than 12 months’ written notice (in the case of Mr
Radcliffe) or 6 months’ written notice (in the case of Mr Steadman).
Details of the salary and benefits paid to the Executive Directors
are set out in Tables 1-3 at the end of this report.
Some of the service contracts for Key Management (other than
the Executive Directors) had included termination periods in
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures REMUNERATION REPOR T
CONTINUED
36 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
excess of 12 months which were historical commitments prior to
the Company becoming listed on the London stock market. At
the time of the IPO, the Committee stated its intention to work
towards notice periods for Key Management being no longer
than 12 months. The Committee has now agreed the principle of
revised service contracts with Key Management which will result
in no member of Key Management having a notice period which
is longer than 12 months. As part of that revision, the Committee
has agreed to include a liquidated damages clause in service
contracts for Key Management which will be applicable in the
event of the Company terminating the role or employment of a
member of Key Management following a takeover of the
Company, but for a maximum period of 12 months only
following such event.
Non-Executive Directors
a) John Coombe has entered into a letter of appointment with
the Company dated 7 June 2006, under which he receives
an annual fee of £125,000 and the reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses. Mr Coombe’s appointment was for an
initial term expiring at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual
General Meeting. On 27 May 2009, the Company entered
into an agreement with Mr Coombe, under which his
appointment was extended for a further period of three
years expiring at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General
Meeting, but on terms which are otherwise unchanged from
his existing appointment. If the Company elects to terminate
Mr Coombe’s appointment before the expiry of the initial
term, he will be entitled to one month’s notice and fees
during that period.
b) Tony Isaac has entered into a letter of appointment with the
Company dated 7 September 2006 under which he was
appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from
11 September 2006 for an initial term of three years. He is
entitled to an annual fee of £30,000, a fee of £5,000 for his
role as Chairman of the Company’s Audit Committee, a fee of
£5,000 for his role as Senior Independent Director and the
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. Mr Isaac’s
appointment has been extended by a letter agreement
dated 27 May 2009 for a further period of three years on
terms which are otherwise unchanged from his existing
appointment. Mr Isaac’s appointment is subject to earlier
termination by either party.
c) George Battersby has entered into a letter of appointment
with the Company dated 7 September 2006 under which he
was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from
11 September 2006 for an initial term of three years. He is
entitled to an annual fee of £30,000, a fee of £5,000 for his role
as Chairman of the Company’s Remuneration Committee and
the reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. Mr Battersby’s
appointment has been extended by a letter agreement
dated 27 May 2009 for a further period of three years on
terms which are otherwise unchanged from his existing
appointment. Mr Battersby’s appointment is subject to earlier
termination by either party.
Share Incentive Schemes
The Company has three share based incentive schemes, namely a
Performance Share Plan (the PSP), a Company Share Option Plan
(the CSOP) and a Sharesave Scheme (the Sharesave Scheme).
The following grants were made under these Schemes during
the year (the 2008 awards).
The PSP
On 4 June and 1 August 2008, options were granted to
employees eligible under the PSP to subscribe for 4,420,767
ordinary shares in the Company of 1p each (Ordinary Shares) of
which 4,245,767 vest on 4 June 2011 and the remaining 175,000
vest on 1 August 2011 (the 2008 PSP awards). The options are
exercisable without payment of an exercise price but, in respect
of 1,965,767 of these awards, being those made to members of
Key Management, (i.e. Executive Directors and members of the
Executive Management team) at the date of grant they are
subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria which
the Remuneration Committee regards as appropriate and
stretching. Details of these performance targets are set out
below together with details of options which have lapsed or
become exercisable during the year.
The CSOP
On 4 June 2008, options were granted to employees eligible
under the CSOP to subscribe for 6,658,752 ordinary shares
vesting on 4 June 2011. The options are exercisable at an
exercise price of 44p, but are also subject to the achievement of
certain performance criteria which the Remuneration Committee
regards as appropriate and stretching. Details of the performance
targets are set out below together with details of options which
have lapsed or become exercisable during the year.
Performance Criteria in respect of the PSP and the CSOP
In respect of both the PSP and CSOP , a proportion of each
award made to Key Management and certain other senior
executives, is based on the satisfaction of performance
conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR), with the
balance being subject to a performance condition based on
real growth in earnings per share (EPS). The percentage split
between TSR awards and EPS awards is dependent on the
seniority of a participant. In the case of all awards made to Key
Management under either the PSP or CSOP , the performance
criteria are split equally between the TSR and the EPS conditions.
In the case of any other senior executives, the performance
criteria are split as to 75% in respect of the EPS condition and
25% in respect of the TSR condition. HRG Annual Report 2009 37
Chart 1: Total shareholder return on £100 invested
in HRG shares at flotation
Note to Chart 1:
TSR is calculated in pounds Sterling, based on spot share prices and includes
dividends reinvested on their ex-dividend date. HRG opening share price on
12 October 2006 was 97.5p. The closing share price on 31 March 2009 was 15.5p.
Awards subject to TSR targets will vest in full in the event the TSR
of the Company over the performance period exceeds the
performance of 80% of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support
Services Index. In the event of the Company’s TSR performance
equalling the median performing company of the index, 25% of
the TSR based award will vest, with vesting calculated on a
straight line basis between these two points.
Awards subject to EPS targets will vest in full in the event the
Company’s EPS increases by 15% per annum above the
percentage change in the RPI over the performance period.
In the event the Company’s EPS increases by 5% per annum
above the percentage change in the RPI, 25% of the EPS based
award will vest, with vesting calculated on a straight line basis
between these two points.
Having received advice from Kepler Associates, the Committee
considers it appropriate to measure EPS on a cumulative basis in
order to reduce the sensitivity to single-year performance in the
current economic environment. Accordingly, for awards made in
2009, EPS performance will be measured on a cumulative rather
than point-to-point basis.
In establishing the Company’s Share Incentive Schemes, the
Company received advice from Kepler Associates as to the
appropriate structure of the schemes and the size of grants to be
made to participants. The Company’s initial policy as to the
granting of awards under the PSP Scheme and the CSOP Scheme
was set out in the prospectus at the time of the IPO and this policy
remains unchanged. Prior to making any award under either the
PSP or the CSOP , the Remuneration Committee seeks advice from
Kepler Associates to confirm that its’ policy remains appropriate to
the Company’s circumstances and the remuneration objectives as
determined by the Remuneration Committee. The Committee
intends to make further awards during the coming year, all of
which will be within the Company’s previously stated policy of
the size of annual awards.
The Sharesave Scheme
Options were granted to employees who had applied to
subscribe for a total of 3,693,657 shares under the Sharesave
Scheme at an option price of 42p (“the 2008 Sharesave awards”).
As indicated in last years report, no discount was offered in
respect of the 2008 Sharesave awards. The associated savings
contracts commenced on 11 August 2008.
Policy on satisfying awards under the PSP and CSOP
A revised policy was set out in last year’s report in respect of
satisfying the December 2006 and August 2007 awards made
under the CSOP such that it is intended that those awards be
satisfied by market purchases of shares to the extent that they
vest in due course. As also stated in last year’s report, it is
intended that all future awards under the CSOP were to be
structured as equity-settled share appreciation rights to
optimise the use of the Company’s dilution headroom and the
2008 CSOP awards were accordingly made on that basis.
The Company has made no further change to this policy nor has
any change been made to its policy for satisfying awards made
under the PSP which is that such awards will be satisfied by
market purchase shares to the extent that such awards vest in
due course.
The Directors’ interests in the PSP , the CSOP and the Sharesave
Scheme are set out in Table 3.
Value pence
HRG FTSE 350 Support Services Source: Datastream
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
IPO 31 March
2007
31 March
2008
31 March
2009
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures REMUNERATION REPOR T
CONTINUED
38 HRG Annual Report 2009
Our responsibilities...
AUDITED PART
Companies Act disclosure requirements
The disclosure required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 is contained within the following tables:
Table 1: Directors’ Emoluments
Year to Year to
Pension Value of 31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Salaries/fees supplement benefits Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
J D Coombe (Chairman) 125 –– 125 125
D J C Radcliffe 397 86 34 517 430
J F W Kennerley (resigned 21 December 2007) ––– – 629
J A Steadman (appointed 21 December 2007) 282 81 1 364 101
G W Battersby 35 –– 35 35
A E Isaac 40 –– 40 40
879 167 35 1,081 1,360
Notes to Table 1:
(i) David Radcliffe has a direct contribution arrangement. For details refer to the notes to Table 2.
(ii) Julian Steadman has a direct contribution arrangement under which he receives a non-pensionable payment of 30% of his base salary. This payment is reflected
in the amounts stated in Table 1.
(iii) The amounts of remuneration above refer to the periods of time during which the Directors held office.
Table 2: Directors’ pensions
The following Director received entitlement to defined benefit pension benefits from the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme
during the year:
Transfer value
Transfer Accrued Accrued Increase in of increase in
value at benefits entitlement Transfer value transfer value Accrued accrued benefits
start of earned in at the end at the end less Directors’ benefits net of less Directors’
period the period of the period of the period contributions inflation contributions
Age £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
D J C Radcliffe
(i)
56 3,654 – 246 3,744 90 ––
3,654 – 246 3,744 90 ––
Notes to Table 2:
(i) On 8 April 2008 David Radcliffe withdrew from the UK scheme taking a pension of £103,612p.a. and a cash lump sum of £883,509, reflecting the fact that he has
exceeded the maximum capped entitlement under recent pension legislation. Thereafter, David Radcliffe’s pension entitlement has been replaced with a direct
contribution arrangement under which a non-pensionable payment is made equal to 22% of his base salary. HRG Annual Report 2009 39
Table 3: The interests of Directors and Key Management in share-based incentive schemes
The interests of the Directors and Key Management in the PSP , CSOP and the Sharesave Scheme are set out in the following table:
Earliest Number at Number at
Date of exercise Expiry Exercise Granted 31 March 1 April 2008
(v)
grant date date price in year Lapsed 2009 restated
D J C Radcliffe
FY07 PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 –– – 206,434 206,434
FY07 CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96p –– 424,696 424,696
FY07 Sharesave 5 Year 16.02.07 01.04.12 30.09.12 82p – 19,969 – 19,969
FY08 PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 –– – 212,733 212,733
FY08 CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66p –– 425,465 425,465
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 – 430,841 – 430,841 –
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p 1,437,494 – 1,437,494 –
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p 22,380 – 22,380 –
1,890,715 19,969 3,160,043 1,289,297
J A Steadman
FY08 PSP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.06.11 –– – 420,993 420,993
FY08 CSOP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.12.17 59p –– 440,443 440,443
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 – 313,579 – 313,579 –
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p 1,046,250 – 1,046,250 –
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p 22,380 – 22,380 –
1,382,209 – 2,243,645 861,436
Key Management
FY07 PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.06.10 –– – 590,746 590,746
FY07 CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 13.12.16 96p –– 1,179,483 1,179,483
FY07 Sharesave 3 Year 16.02.07 01.04.10 30.09.10 82p – 19,969 – 19,969
FY07 Sharesave 5 Year 16.02.07 01.04.12 30.09.12 82p – 51,462 – 51,462
FY08 PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 –– – 608,734 608,734
FY08 CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66p –– 1,211,761 1,211,761
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 – 1,471,347 – 1,471,347 –
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p 4,075,008 – 4,075,008 –
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p 44,760 – 44,760 –
5,591,115 71,431 9,181,839 3,662,155
Notes to Table 3:
(i) No other Directors have been granted share options in the shares of the Group. None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year.
All options were granted in respect of qualifying services.
(ii) The options were granted at nil cost to the Directors and were in respect of past performance.
(iii) No options were exercised during the year.
(iv) The market price of the Group’s shares at the end of the financial year was 15.5p and the range of the market prices during the year following the date of grant was
between 53.0p and 3.5p.
(v) The interests of Key Management have been restated in respect of the previous year to reflect the current composition of the Executive Management Team as stated on page 25.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures REMUNERATION REPOR T
CONTINUED
40 HRG Annual Report 2009
Table 4: Directors’ and Key Management’s interests in shares
Ordinary Ordinary
shares shares
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Number Number
Current Directors
J D Coombe 719,583 318,269
D J C Radcliffe 2,270,529 1,705,500
J Steadman (appointed 21 December 2007) 828,051 150,000
G W Battersby 353,333 103,333
A E Isaac 33,333 33,333
4,204,829 2,310,435
Previous Directors
J F W Kennerley (resigned 21 December 2007) n/a 683,298
Key Management 1,829,318 1,498,499
6,034,147 4,492,232
Notes to Table 4:
(i) The Directors’ interests as at 27 May 2009 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report and a date no more than one month prior to the date of
the notice convening the AGM), were the same as at 31 March 2009.
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
28 May 2009
Our responsibilities... HRG Annual Report 2009 41
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The facts and figures... The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Consolidated and
the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
have prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration
Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). The Consolidated and Parent Company
Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Directors are required to:
(a) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
(b) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
(c) state that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with
regard to the Parent Company Financial Statements that
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the Consolidated or Parent Company Financial
Statements; and
(d) prepare the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial
Statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in
business, in which case there should be supporting
assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the Consolidated and Parent
Company Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable
them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation and the Parent Company Financial Statements and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
28 May 2009
STATEMENT OF DIREC TORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
42 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense and the related notes. These Consolidated
Financial Statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2009 and on the information in the Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Consolidated Financial Statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the
Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the
Remuneration Report that is cross referred from the Business
Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the Combined Code (2006) specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial
Review, the Directors’ Report, the Corporate Governance
Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors
in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2009
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
– the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
28 May 2009
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Consolidated
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPOR T
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
HRG Annual Report 2009 43
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures Years ended 31 March
2008
2009 restated
Notes £m £m
Revenue 3 351.3 332.2
Operating expenses 4 (326.0) (296.2)
Operating profit 25.3 36.0
Analysed as:
Underlying operating profit 34.6 37.9
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 10 (3.7) (3.1)
Exceptional items 4 (5.6) 1.2
Operating profit 25.3 36.0
Net share of profit of associates and joint ventures 12 0.1 0.1
Earnings before interest and taxation 25.4 36.1
Finance income 6 1.3 1.5
Finance costs 6 (11.3) (12.4)
Profit before tax 15.4 25.2
Income tax expense 7 (6.3) (7.7)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9.1 17.5
Attributable to:
Equity Shareholders of the Company 7.4 16.7
Minority interests 24 1.7 0.8
9.1 17.5
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Notes pence pence
Earnings per share 8
Basic 2.4 5.5
Diluted 2.4 5.4
The year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to highlight the effect of amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The notes on pages 48 to 84 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
44 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... As at 31 March
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Non current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 10 258.0 231.4
Property, plant and equipment 11 15.1 12.6
Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 2.8 2.8
Trade and other receivables 14 0.2 0.4
Deferred tax assets 20 33.8 31.6
309.9 278.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 102.6 123.8
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 15 – 0.3
Current tax assets 1.5 0.4
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 68.5 49.6
172.6 174.1
Total assets 3 482.5 452.9
Non current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (144.4) (155.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (1.6) (2.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (65.3) (48.1)
Provisions 19 (3.4) (3.3)
(214.7) (209.2)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (8.0) (3.1)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 15 (0.6) (1.3)
Current tax liabilities (9.3) (8.6)
Trade and other payables 18 (196.5) (179.5)
Provisions 19 (5.7) (1.2)
(220.1) (193.7)
Total liabilities (434.8) (402.9)
Net assets 47.7 50.0
Capital and reserves attributable to equity Shareholders
Share capital 22 3.1 3.1
Share premium 22 172.2 171.9
Other reserves 23 24.1 5.3
Retained earnings 23 (155.2) (132.8)
44.2 47.5
Minority interests 24 3.5 2.5
Total equity 47.7 50.0
The notes on pages 48 to 84 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 44 to 84 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2009 and were
signed on its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEE T
AS AT 31 MARCH 2009
HRG Annual Report 2009 45
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 29 65.2 40.1
Interest paid (8.6) (11.5)
Tax paid (3.8) (6.0)
Cash flows from operating activities – net 52.8 22.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 25 (0.3) (4.3)
Disposals of associates, joint ventures and other investments 12 0.4 0.7
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5.4) (4.9)
Purchase of intangible assets (4.1) (2.9)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 –
Interest received 1.4 1.5
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 0.3 0.2
Cash flows from investing activities – net (7.6) (9.7)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (34.0) (41.6)
New borrowings 15.0 29.0
Issue costs of new borrowings – (0.1)
Cash effect of currency swaps (3.9) (3.4)
Issue costs of shares – (0.1)
Employee Benefits Trust 22,23 – (1.6)
Dividends paid to external shareholders (12.0) (11.6)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.8) (1.3)
Cash flows from financing activities – net (35.7) (30.7)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9.5 (17.8)
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9.5 (17.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 48.5 60.1
Exchange rate effects 5.3 6.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 63.3 48.5
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 68.5 49.6
Overdrafts 17 (5.2) (1.1)
63.3 48.5
The notes on pages 48 to 84 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
46 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Profit for the year 9.1 17.5
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Currency translation differences 17.6 3.3
Actuarial (loss) / gain 21 (23.4) 5.1
Deferred tax movement on pension liability 5.9 (1.6)
Reduction in deferred tax asset recognised on the pension liability attributable to tax rate changes – (1.6)
0.1 5.2
Total recognised income and expense 9.2 22.7
Attributable to:
Equity Shareholders of the Company 7.5 21.9
Minority interests 24 1.7 0.8
9.2 22.7
The notes on pages 48 to 84 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
HRG Annual Report 2009 47
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures Basis of preparation: International Financial Reporting Standards
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union,
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
(IFRIC) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the IFRS financial statements requires the use
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the year. Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions,
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates, as
noted in the Key Management judgements policy on page 53.
Basis of accounting
The Directors consider that, taking into account the assets and
revenue of the Group, the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason the Directors adopt the going concern basis for the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Report.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on
the historical cost basis, as modified by the use of valuations for
certain financial instruments, share-based payment incentives
and retirement benefits.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years
presented. No changes have been made to the accounting
policies by comparison with those applied in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009
The following interpretation to an existing standard is effective but
not mandatory for the first time for the year ended 31 March 2009:
– IFRIC 14, IAS 19 addresses the limit on a defined benefit asset,
minimum funding requirements and their interaction
(effective from 1 January 2008 but EU endorsed for use from
1 January 2009) and provides guidance on assessing the limit
in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised
as an asset. It also explains how the pension asset or liability
may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum
funding requirement. This interpretation does not currently
have any impact on results of the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009
but not relevant
The following standards, amendments to standards and
interpretations to existing standards are mandatory for the first
time for the year ended 31 March 2009 but are not relevant to
the Group’s operations:
– IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements.
– IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty programmes.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective
and which have not been early adopted by the Group
The following standards, amendments and interpretations
have been published but are not effective for the year ended
31 March 2009 and have not been early adopted:
– IAS 23 (Amendment), Borrowing costs (effective from
1 January 2009). The Group will apply IAS 23 (Amended) from
1 April 2009 but it is currently not applicable to the Group.
– IAS 27 (Revised), Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements (effective from 1 July 2009), subject to
endorsement by the EU. The impact of adopting IAS 27
(Revised) in future periods is under assessment.
– IFRS 3 (Revised), Business Combinations (effective from 1 July
2009), subject to endorsement by the EU. The impact of
adopting IFRS 3 (Revised) in future periods will be considered
in the event of a future business combination.
– IFRS 8, Operating segments (effective from 1 January 2009).
The Group expects to apply IFRS 8 from 1 April 2009.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following
amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods,
which were also in issue but either not effective or not relevant at
the date of approval of these Financial Statements, will have no
material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IAS 1 (Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements,
effective from 1 January 2009.
– IAS 32 (Amendment), Financial Instruments: Presentation and
IAS 1 (Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements,
effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement.
– IFRS 1 (Amendment), First time ad adoption of IFRS and IAS 27,
Consolidated and separate financial statements, effective from
1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
– IFRS 2 (Amendment), Share Based Payment – Vesting
Conditions and Cancellations, effective from 1 January 2009.
– IFRIC 15, Amendments to the Construction of Real Estate,
effective from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
– IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation,
effective from 1 October 2008, subject to endorsement by the EU.
– IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners, effective
from 1 July 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
48 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
1 General information and accounting policies HRG Annual Report 2009 49
– IFRIC 18, Transfer of Assets from Customers, effective from
1 July 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) published a
project of annual improvements to IFRS in May 2008 proposing
amendments to a number of standards, subject to endorsement
by the EU. The Directors anticipate that adoption of amendments
contained in this project in future periods, which are not effective
at the date of approval of these Financial Statements, will have no
material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results and
net assets of Hogg Robinson Group plc, (the Company), and its
subsidiaries. Together these form the Group.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities in which the Company has the power to
control and govern the financial and operating activities,
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of
the voting rights. Subsidiary companies have been consolidated
from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
The cost of acquisition of subsidiaries is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over fair
value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Accounting
policies of acquired subsidiaries are changed where necessary to
ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Transactions with minority interests
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority
interests as transactions with third parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the
Group that are recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Increases in stake acquired from minority interests result in
changes to goodwill, where there is a difference between
consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the
carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are entities that are not subsidiaries, in which the
Group shares control as a party to a contract. Associates are entities,
other than subsidiaries or joint ventures, in which the Group has
the power to participate in the financial and policy decisions.
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures is
included in the Consolidated Income Statement. Investments in
associates and joint ventures are included in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at cost adjusted by subsequent share of profits or
losses, dividends received and any impairment. When the
Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or
exceeds its interest in it, the Group does not recognise further
losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on
behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged
in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of other business segments. The Group
reports its results on the basis of one business segment, which is
business services in the corporate travel market, ‘Business Travel’ .
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services
within a particular economic environment that are subject to
risks and returns which are different from those of segments
operating in other economic environments. The Group presents
its results on the basis of three geographic segments, Europe,
North America and Asia Pacific. Central revenue from global
marketing agreements and distribution and system usage
agreements with suppliers and expenses, assets and capital
expenditure associated with Group functions are allocated to
the geographical segments to which they relate.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received
or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course
of business, net of discounts and rebates, value added tax and
other sales related taxes. Revenue does not include transactions
entered into by Group clients for which the Group acts as agent.
Revenue represents service fees earned from clients,
management fees and revenue and commissions from suppliers.
Client service fees are earned by charging a transaction or
management fee for airline or other transactions, based on
contractual agreements with travel clients. Transaction revenue
is recognised at the time of ticketing of the travel arrangement
with the exception of hotel related income, which is recognised
at the time of booking. Management fees are recognised over
the period of time that the service is provided to the client.
Supplier revenues are earned under sales and marketing
agreements, incentive arrangements and distribution and system
usage agreements. In such cases, revenue is measured at each
balance sheet date as total anticipated income multiplied by the
percentage stage of completion of the contract.
In certain circumstances, suppliers pay commission on airline
tickets issued. This revenue is recognised at the time a ticket is
purchased.
1 General information and accounting policies continued
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
50 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes
or amounts paid directly to the personal pension plans of
employees are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are measured
at their fair value at the balance sheet date and compared to the
liabilities of those schemes at the same date, measured on an
actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method. The
discount rate used is the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
Costs of defined benefit pension schemes arising from employee
service in the current period are charged to operating expenses.
The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities
relating to employee service in prior periods but arising in the
current period as a result of benefit improvements is charged to
operating expenses over the period during which such
improvements vest. The expected return on the schemes’ assets
and the increase during the period in the present value of the
schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in
other finance income. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in
the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits may be payable when employment is
terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange
for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when
it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment
of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without
possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a
result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses
based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit and
cash flows attributable to the Company’s shareholders after
certain adjustments.
Share-based incentives
The Group operates several equity-settled share-based incentive
schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards is calculated
at grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting
period. For awards with vesting conditions based on market
conditions (particularly, those based on total shareholder return
compared with external benchmarks), the likelihood of vesting is
assessed at the date of grant and is not subsequently amended
in arriving at the expense for each year in the vesting period.
All other awards are re-assessed at each balance sheet date, with
the expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement,
including the impact of changes of previous estimates of the
likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the year gives rise to
a corresponding credit to equity.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those significant items which due to
their size and nature are separately disclosed to provide a full
understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the surplus of the purchase consideration
over the Group’s share of the fair value of the separable net
assets of the subsidiary or interest in associate or joint venture
acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in
intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in
associates and joint ventures is included in ‘investments
accounted for using the equity method’ and is tested for
impairment as part of the Group’s total goodwill. Separately
recognised goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in operating expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The review of impairment includes examination of anticipated cash
flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill relates. Cash
generating units are determined by geography. Goodwill is written
down to its estimated recoverable amount, being the higher of:
– fair value, the amount obtainable from sale on an arm’s length
basis, less the costs of disposal;
– the value in use, the net present value of future cash flows
expected to be generated from the business.
When a business is disposed of the carrying amount of goodwill
applicable is taken into account in determining the profit or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to
IFRS, 1 April 2003, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment since that date.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without
physical substance. They are stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment. Cost includes third party
purchases, the directly attributable costs of internally generated
assets and the fair value of identifiable intangible assets arising
on acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2003.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of all intangible assets, less
the estimated residual value, using the straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives as follows:
Computer software and intellectual property 3-10 years
Client relationships in acquired businesses 10 years
Amortisation is charged to operating expenses in the
Consolidated Income Statement.
1 General information and accounting policies continued HRG Annual Report 2009 51
Computer software includes the cost of internally generated
software which is capitalised when it is probable that economic
benefits will flow to the Group from the asset being developed,
and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical
feasibility can be demonstrated. Capitalisation ceases when the
asset being developed is ready for use. Research expenditure
incurred is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment. Cost is defined as expenditure
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of all property, plant and
equipment, less the estimated residual value, using the straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Property:
Long-term leaseholds 50 years
Short-term leasehold premiums and
structural leasehold improvements the lease term
Plant and equipment:
IT and office equipment 2-7 years
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following
categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and
receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for which
the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the
classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss –
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are financial
instruments held for trading. A financial instrument is classified in
this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the
short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading
unless they are designated as hedges. Financial instruments in this
category are classified as current assets or liabilities.
Loans and receivables – Loans and receivables are non-
derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments
that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in
current assets, except where expected maturity is greater than
12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as
non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise
trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalent assets
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised
on the trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to
purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised
at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not
carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried
at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair
value and transaction costs are expensed in the Consolidated
Income Statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the
rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired
or have been transferred and the Group has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Loans and
receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are
presented in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period
in which they arise.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the
debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and
default or delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue)
are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the
use of a provision account, and the amount of the loss is
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. When a
trade receivable is not collectible, it is written off against the
provision account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries
of amounts previously written off are credited to the
Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
1 General information and accounting policies continued
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
52 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as
current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to
defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the
balance sheet date. Currency swaps are stated at fair value on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Exchange movements on
foreign currency borrowings are taken to reserves to the extent
that the borrowing is in the functional currency of the obligor
and to the Consolidated Income Statement to the extent it is
not. Changes in the fair value of currency swaps are taken to the
Consolidated Income Statement. Borrowing costs are recognised
as an expense in the year in which they are incurred. Debt issue
costs are amortised proportionally over the anticipated life of the
relevant debt facility.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of
its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Other financial instruments are stated at fair value with differences
on valuation taken to the Consolidated Income Statement or to
reserves if hedge accounting has been established for the
particular instrument. These include interest rate caps and
amounts receivable or payable in foreign currency together with
the forward foreign currency exchange contracts used to fix their
value. Fair values are derived from published financial data.
Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of each
of the Group’s subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and
associates are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (the
functional currency). The Consolidated Financial Statements are
presented in sterling which is the Company’s functional and
presentational currency.
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency of the relevant entity using the exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such
transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income
Statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash
flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures
and associates in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
results of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation at closing rates
of net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates,
together with those on foreign currency loans which finance
them, are taken to reserves and reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected
to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of
transition to IFRS (1 April 2003) as a sterling denominated asset.
Leasing
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Other leases are
classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements
are included in property, plant and equipment and are
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful
economic life. Lease obligations are stated net of finance charges
attributable to future periods. Finance costs are allocated over
the period of the lease to give a constant rate of change.
Operating lease rentals, net of any incentives received from the
lessor, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over
the life of the lease.
Taxation
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates the positions taken in tax
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax
regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions
where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid
to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using
tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
1 General information and accounting policies continued HRG Annual Report 2009 53
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividend distributions
Interim dividends are recognised in the Consolidated Financial
Statements in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in
the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements in the period in
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
The nominal value of shares issued under the scheme has been
funded out of the share premium account.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be necessary to settle the
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions
for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a
detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties. Provisions are discounted
where the impact is material.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash
and cash equivalents includes bank balances and deposits with
original maturities of three months or less. It also includes bank
overdrafts which form an integral part of the Group’s cash
management and are likely to fluctuate from overdrawn to
positive balances. Bank overdrafts, where there is no right of set-
off, are shown as borrowings within current liabilities.
Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The premium received on the issue of shares in excess of the
nominal value of shares is credited to the share premium
account and included within Shareholders’ equity.
Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored
Employee Benefits Trust are included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares
in the Company remain deducted from Shareholders’ funds until
they vest unconditionally with employees.
Related party transactions
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under IAS 24,
Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions and
balances between Group entities that have been eliminated on
consolidation.
Critical accounting estimates and Key Management judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.
The principal management judgements made in the preparation
of these accounts are:
– the assessment of the impairment of goodwill at each balance
sheet date (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by each business in the Group;
– the valuation of client relationships for intangible assets at
acquisition (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by existing clients at acquisition;
– the capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets. This
process depends on it being probable that economic benefits
will flow to the Group from the asset being developed, the
cost of the asset being reliably measured and the technical
feasibility being demonstrated; and
– the evaluation of the recoverability of deferred tax assets (see
note 20), which depends on the assessment of the probability
that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits
available in future against which to realise them;
– the evaluation of retirement benefit obligations. This depends
on the actuarial assumptions set out in note 21, including
estimates of future returns on scheme assets;
– within revenue there are key judgements made by management
in terms of revenue recognition. The Group uses a percentage of
completion method to measure supplier revenues earned under
sales and marketing agreements, incentive arrangements, and
distribution and usage agreements.
1 General information and accounting policies continued
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
54 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
2 Financial risk management
Risk management policy
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential
adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department, (Group Treasury), under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.
The Group’s treasury policy and foreign exchange risk management policy does not allow transactions of a speculative nature.
The Group arranges central borrowings facilities and maintains local banking relationships to enable it to meet payment obligations
as they fall due, taking into account information from its cash forecasts and business plans. The amounts of unused borrowing
facilities are set out in note 17.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern while providing
adequate returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital
to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. It may also increase debt provided that the funded venture provides
adequate returns so that the overall capital structure remains supportable.
The Group uses an operational gearing ratio to manage net debt to ensure that covenants within banking arrangements are
complied with.
The operational gearing ratios at 31 March 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Total borrowings (note 17) 153.8 160.0
Less: cash and cash equivalent assets (note 16) (68.5) (49.6)
Net debt
(1)
85.3 110.4
EBITDA
(2)
42.4 44.7
Operational gearing ratio 2.0 2.5
(1) Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet but excluding
unamortised loan issue costs) less cash and cash equivalent assets
(2) Earnings from continuing operations before exceptional items, including the Group’s after tax share of results of associates and joint ventures,
but before net finance costs, income taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement
and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity
instrument are disclosed within General information and accounting policies (see note 1).
The Group considers itself to be exposed to risks on financial instruments, including market risk (including foreign currency risk),
interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s policies and procedures for identifying and mitigating the risks are
documented on pages 21 to 22 of the Financial Review which forms part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Liquidity and interest risk tables
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the
table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying value as the impact of
discounting is not significant: HRG Annual Report 2009 55
2 Financial risk management continued
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
£m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2009
Borrowings (13.0) (4.6) (151.6) –
Derivative financial instruments (0.6) –––
Trade and other payables (196.5) –––
At 31 March 2008
Borrowings (13.1) (8.5) (167.8) –
Derivative financial instruments (1.3) –––
Trade and other payables (179.5) –––
Sensitivity analysis
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
For the year ended 31 March 2009, if the average value of Sterling had been 5% higher or lower relative to other currencies than
actual, the profit before tax of the Group would have been increased or reduced by £0.1m compared to the actual result (2008:
£0.4m). The impact on equity would be a movement of £2.8m (2008: £1.8m) mainly arising on foreign currency exchange gains or
losses on translation of net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
For the year ended 31 March 2009, if interest rates in all currencies in which the Group has borrowings had been higher or lower
by 1%, interest cost would have been increased or reduced by £1.5m (2008: £1.4m).
3 Business and geographical segments
Business segmentation
All revenue, operating profit, assets and liabilities, capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations are
derived from the Group’s primary business segment, Business Travel.
Geographical segmentation
Segment information is provided for geographical regions reflecting the principal economic environments in which the Group operates.
External revenue from clients by origin (where the Group entity is located)
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Europe 260.3 247.8
North America 71.3 65.3
Asia Pacific 19.7 19.1
351.3 332.2
External revenue from clients by geographical area (where the client is located) is not significantly different from external revenue
from clients by origin (where the Group is located) disclosed above.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
56 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
3 Business and geographical segments continued
Operating profit / (loss)
Years ended 31 March
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
Underlying Amortisation 2009 Total Underlying Amortisation 2008 Total
operating of acquired Exceptional operating operating of acquired Exceptional operating
profit intangibles items profit/(loss) profit intangibles items profit/(loss)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Europe 31.9 (2.7) (4.3) 24.9 34.9 (2.3) 3.6 36.2
North America 1.3 (0.7) (1.3) (0.7) 1.6 (0.5) (2.4) (1.3)
Asia Pacific 1.4 (0.3) – 1.1 1.4 (0.3) – 1.1
34.6 (3.7) (5.6) 25.3 37.9 (3.1) 1.2 36.0
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT)
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
2009 Amortisation 2009 2009 2008 Amortisation 2008 2008
Underlying of acquired Exceptional Total Underlying of acquired Exceptional Total
EBIT intangibles items EBIT EBIT intangibles items EBIT
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Europe 32.1 (2.7) (4.3) 25.1 35.1 (2.3) 3.6 36.4
North America 1.3 (0.7) (1.3) (0.7) 1.6 (0.5) (2.4) (1.3)
Asia Pacific 1.3 (0.3) – 1.0 1.3 (0.3) – 1.0
34.7 (3.7) (5.6) 25.4 38.0 (3.1) 1.2 36.1
Total assets by geographical location
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Europe 277.2 275.1
North America 88.0 80.3
Asia Pacific 13.5 15.9
378.7 371.3
Cash and cash equivalent assets 68.5 49.6
Current tax assets 1.5 0.4
Deferred tax assets 33.8 31.6
482.5 452.9
Capital expenditure by geographical location
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Europe 5.6 5.9
North America 2.9 1.6
Asia Pacific 1.3 0.8
9.8 8.3 4 Operating expenses
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Operating expenses before exceptional items:
Staff costs (note 5) 208.6 194.2
Amortisation of client relationships 3.4 2.8
Amortisation of other intangible assets 3.4 2.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4.6 4.4
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1.7 1.5
Operating lease rentals – buildings 14.6 13.1
Operating lease rentals – other assets 1.9 2.6
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Currency translation differences (0.2) 0.1
Other expenses 82.3 76.0
320.4 297.4
Exceptional items:
Restructuring costs:
– Staff costs (note 5) 6.6 –
– Other expenses 0.3 –
Release of unutilised accruals relating to acquisitions in prior years (1.6) –
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets 0.3 0.8
Settlement of arbitration net of costs:
– Staff costs (note 5) – (1.5)
– Other expenses – (2.9)
Irrecoverable costs of a long-standing contract – 2.4
5.6 (1.2)
Total operating expenses 326.0 296.2
Restructuring costs of £6.9m were incurred during the year. These costs relate to planned cost reduction programmes in Europe and
North America. They are in respect of redundancy costs and onerous lease provisions.
As a result of a review by management, certain unutilised accruals relating to acquisitions in prior years have been released.
The settlement of arbitration net of costs in the year ended 31 March 2008 was with regard to a claim against Kuoni Reisen Holding
AG, former owners of companies acquired by the Group, for a breach of the relevant sale and purchase agreement. Tax expense in
respect of this was £nil.
An exceptional accrual of £2.4m in the year ended 31 March 2008 was made to cover estimated irrecoverable amounts under a
long-standing contract in North America.
HRG Annual Report 2009 57
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 4 Operating expenses continued
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Charged to operating expenses:
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and
Consolidated Financial Statements 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.1
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1.7 1.5
Other services provided to comply with legislation 0.2 0.2
Services related to taxation 0.2 0.5
All other services – 0.1
2.1 2.3
Capitalised on acquisition:
Services relating to corporate finance transactions – 0.1
– 0.1
In addition to the above services, the Company’s auditor acted as auditor to the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. The
appointment of auditors to the Group’s pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of that audit are agreed by the trustees of the
scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group. The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditor for audit
services to the pension scheme during the year were £0.02m (2008: £0.02m).
5 Staff costs
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Before 2009 Before 2008
exceptional Exceptional 2009 exceptional Exceptional 2008
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Salaries 175.0 – 175.0 161.8 – 161.8
Social security costs 21.4 – 21.4 20.1 – 20.1
Pension costs 9.9 – 9.9 9.0 (1.5) 7.5
Redundancy and termination costs 1.1 6.6 7.7 2.6 – 2.6
Share-based incentives 1.2 – 1.2 0.7 – 0.7
208.6 6.6 215.2 194.2 (1.5) 192.7
Pension costs comprise:
Defined benefit schemes (note 21) 3.4 – 3.4 3.9 – 3.9
Defined contribution schemes 6.5 – 6.5 5.1 – 5.1
Exceptional pension credit (note 21) ––– – (1.5) (1.5)
9.9 – 9.9 9.0 (1.5) 7.5
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
58 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 5 Staff costs continued
Years ended 31 March
2008
2009 restated
number number
Average monthly number of staff employed by the Group including Key Management:
Business Travel 6,236 6,350
Average monthly number of staff employed by the Group including Key Management has been restated in the year ended
31 March 2008 to reflect full time equivalent staff numbers.
6 Finance income and finance costs
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Finance income – bank interest 1.3 1.5
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (9.6) (11.4)
Amortisation of issue costs on bank loans (0.4) (0.5)
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (1.2) (0.4)
Other finance charges (0.1) (0.1)
Finance costs (11.3) (12.4)
Net finance costs (10.0) (10.9)
7 Income tax expense
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Current tax:
Tax on profits of the year 3.8 4.3
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.9) 0.6
Total current tax 2.9 4.9
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 2.5
Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.4 –
Net impact of rate change on deferred tax balances – 0.9
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (0.2) (0.6)
Total deferred tax (note 20) 3.4 2.8
Taxation charge 6.3 7.7
HRG Annual Report 2009 59
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 7 Income taxes continued
The tax charge is split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
United Kingdom 4.7 5.6
Overseas 1.8 2.7
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (0.2) (0.6)
Taxation charge 6.3 7.7
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
On recurring business 7.7 7.9
Tax rate changes – 0.9
Exceptional items (1.4) (1.1)
Taxation charge 6.3 7.7
The tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (28%) (2008: 30%) as explained below:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit before tax:
Continuing operations 15.4 25.2
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 30%) 4.3 7.6
Effects of:
Overseas and UK rate changes – 0.9
Non-recognition of deferred tax assets – losses 1.4 0.6
Non-deductible goodwill amortisation 0.1 0.2
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.5
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (0.2) (0.6)
Overseas tax rate differential (0.5) (0.8)
Non-taxable income (0.1) (1.0)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.5 0.6
Other 0.3 (0.3)
Taxation charge 6.3 7.7
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets
The Group has acquired businesses in Germany with tax losses and other deferred tax assets. These were recognised in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on acquisition to the extent that they were expected to be realised based on information at the acquisition date.
The Group has subsequently been able to use tax losses and other assets to a greater extent than anticipated on acquisition thereby
reducing the value of goodwill. In order to comply with the requirements of IAS 12, Income Taxes, a charge is reported in operating
expenses (as shown in note 4). The charge to operating expenses was greater than the charge to deferred tax. This is because the charge
to operating expenses must be made at the tax rate prevailing at the time the goodwill was originally recognised (approximately 40%).
However, the deferred tax asset must be recognised at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date (approximately 30%).
The Group makes maximum use of all brought forward losses and other available reliefs in mitigating current tax payable.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
60 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to Shareholders by the weighted average number
of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those purchased by the Company’s Employee Benefits Trust.
For diluted earnings per share , the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all
dilutive potential Ordinary shares.
The following amounts have been used in the calculation of earnings per share:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Earnings for the purposes of earnings per share:
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9.1 17.5
Less: amount attributable to minority interest (1.7) (0.8)
Continuing operations 7.4 16.7
Years ended 31 March
2008
2009 restated
number number
m m
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares
Issued (for basic EPS) 304.2 304.9
Dilutive potential Ordinary shares 4.5 3.8
For diluted EPS 308.7 308.7
The weighted average number of issued Ordinary shares is lower in the year ended 31 March 2009 compared to the year ended
31 March 2008 due to the impact of the shares purchased by the Employee Benefits Trust.
The Directors have reviewed the calculations of the number of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares and have restated the comparatives.
The Employee Benefits Trust waived its rights to dividends.
9 Dividends per share
The dividends to the Company’s shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2009 were:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2008
2.8p per share (31 March 2007 2.8p per share) 8.6 8.5
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2009
1.2p per share (31 March 2008 1.2p per share) 3.7 3.7
Total dividends to the Company’s shareholders (note 23) 12.3 12.2
Scrip dividends to the value of £0.1m in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 and to the value of £0.2m
in respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead of a cash payment.
No final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 is to be proposed at the Annual General meeting on 29 July 2009.
HRG Annual Report 2009 61
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Goodwill 225.6 203.1
Other intangible assets 32.4 28.3
258.0 231.4
Other intangible assets
Computer software
Externally Internally Client
Goodwill acquired generated relationships Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At cost
At 1 April 2007 217.7 13.9 4.6 27.4 263.6
Acquisitions (note 25) 2.5 ––– 2.5
Additions – 1.4 1.5 – 2.9
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (0.8) ––– (0.8)
Exchange differences 10.1 0.9 – 4.0 15.0
At 31 March 2008 229.5 16.2 6.1 31.4 283.2
Additions – 0.8 3.3 – 4.1
Reclassification of assets –– 2.5 – 2.5
Disposals – (1.4) –– (1.4)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (0.3) ––– (0.3)
Adjustments to deferred consideration (0.2) ––– (0.2)
Exchange differences 23.0 1.3 0.2 6.7 31.2
At 31 March 2009 252.0 16.9 12.1 38.1 319.1
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2007 26.4 8.0 2.0 7.5 43.9
Amortisation charge for the year – 1.6 1.0 2.8 5.4
Exchange differences – 0.9 – 1.6 2.5
At 31 March 2008 26.4 10.5 3.0 11.9 51.8
Amortisation charge for the year – 1.9 1.5 3.4 6.8
Disposals – (1.4) –– (1.4)
Exchange differences – 1.0 – 2.9 3.9
At 31 March 2009 26.4 12.0 4.5 18.2 61.1
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2007 191.3 5.9 2.6 19.9 219.7
At 31 March 2008 203.1 5.7 3.1 19.5 231.4
At 31 March 2009 225.6 4.9 7.6 19.9 258.0
The recoverable amount used in the assessment of goodwill for all cash generating units comprises value in use. During the year the
Group reviewed its discount rate and long term growth rates and these have been applied in the assessment. The value in use has
been calculated by discounting at 10% (2008: 7.5%) the anticipated post-tax cash flows. This equates to an estimated pre-tax discount
rate of 10.7%. The forecasts are prepared from management information taking into account historical trading performance and
anticipated changes in future market conditions. The detailed forecasts cover a period of three years from the balance sheet date;
cash flows are projected beyond that period based on anticipated long-term growth of 2% (2008: 2%).
The amortisation charge for the year of £6.8m (2008: £5.4m) is comprised of £3.7m (2008: £3.1m) in respect of intangible assets
acquired via business combinations and £3.1m (2008: £2.3m) which relates to amortisation of software purchased and internally
generated by existing businesses.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
62 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill consists of the following amounts related to cash generating units of the Group in the Business Travel sector:
Years ended 31 March
2008
2009 restated
£m £m
UK 56.9 56.9
Sweden 14.6 14.6
Norway 17.9 17.9
Germany 47.4 41.0
Switzerland 19.6 16.2
North America 48.1 36.5
Other 21.1 20.0
225.6 203.1
Analysis of goodwill by cash generating unit for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to show USA and Canada as a
single cash generating unit under North America. In addition, goodwill relating to the Spendvision acquisition in the year ended
31 March 2008 has been reallocated from UK to Other.
11 Property, plant and equipment
Plant and
Property equipment Total
£m £m £m
At cost
At 1 April 2007 8.8 38.2 47.0
Additions for the year 1.2 4.2 5.4
Disposals for the year (0.9) (8.8) (9.7)
Exchange differences 0.2 5.3 5.5
At 31 March 2008 9.3 38.9 48.2
Additions for the year 0.5 5.2 5.7
Disposals (0.2) (3.1) (3.3)
Exchange differences 1.0 5.4 6.4
At 31 March 2009 10.6 46.4 57.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2007 5.1 31.1 36.2
Depreciation charge for the year 0.9 3.5 4.4
Disposals for the year (0.9) (8.3) (9.2)
Exchange differences 0.1 4.1 4.2
At 31 March 2008 5.2 30.4 35.6
Depreciation charge for the year 0.9 3.7 4.6
Disposals (0.1) (2.8) (2.9)
Exchange differences 0.6 4.0 4.6
At 31 March 2009 6.6 35.3 41.9
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2007 3.7 7.1 10.8
At 31 March 2008 4.1 8.5 12.6
At 31 March 2009 4.0 11.1 15.1
Property is comprised of leasehold properties and leasehold improvements. Plant and equipment is comprised of IT and office equipment.
HRG Annual Report 2009 63
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 11 Property, plant and equipment continued
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Contractual commitments for the acquisition of:
Property, plant and equipment 1.5 –
Intangible assets 0.1 –
Carrying amount of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 0.5 0.4
12 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 2.8 3.3
Disposal proceeds (0.4) (0.7)
Net share of profit for the year after tax and minority interests 0.1 0.1
Dividends (0.3) (0.2)
Exchange differences 0.6 0.3
At end of year 2.8 2.8
Disposal proceeds relate to capital reimbursement from Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co., which is no
longer trading and is expected to be liquidated.
The principal joint ventures and associates are:
Country of
Proportion held
incorporation 2009 2008
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Ltd Hong Kong 51% 51%
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Ltd China 51% 51%
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co. Germany 33% 33%
Business Travel International BV Netherlands 50% 50%
Associates
Liga Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
WELT Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Current assets 5.4 5.4
Non-current assets 1.0 0.7
Current liabilities (4.0) (4.3)
Revenue 2.7 2.1
Loss after tax (0.1) (0.1)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
64 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 12 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued
Aggregate amounts relating to associates:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Total assets 2.3 1.8
Total liabilities (1.6) (1.2)
Revenue 2.1 1.9
Profit after tax 0.2 0.2
13 Financial instruments by category
Assets at fair
Loans and value through
receivables profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2009
Trade receivables 64.9 – 64.9
Due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 – 0.6
Other receivables 14.0 – 14.0
Cash and cash equivalent assets 68.5 – 68.5
148.0 – 148.0
Liabilities Liabilities at fair
measured at value through
amortised cost profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2009
Derivative financial instruments – 0.6 0.6
Borrowings 152.4 – 152.4
Trade payables 122.0 – 122.0
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.6 – 0.6
Other payables 33.2 – 33.2
308.2 0.6 308.8
Loans and Assets at fair
receivables value through Total
restated profit or loss restated
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2008
Derivative financial instruments – 0.3 0.3
Trade receivables 78.3 – 78.3
Due from joint ventures and associates 0.9 – 0.9
Other receivables 21.2 – 21.2
Cash and cash equivalent assets 49.6 – 49.6
150.0 0.3 150.3
Loans and receivables as at 31 March 2008 have been restated to reflect trade receivables after provision for impairment.
HRG Annual Report 2009 65
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 13 Financial instruments by category continued
Liabilities Liabilities at fair
measured at value through
amortised cost profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2008
Derivative financial instruments – 1.3 1.3
Borrowings 158.1 – 158.1
Trade payables 107.5 – 107.5
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.5 – 0.5
Other payables 32.3 – 32.3
298.4 1.3 299.7
At 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 no assets were subject to collateral.
14 Trade and other receivables
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade receivables, gross 67.0 79.3
Less: provision for impairment (2.1) (1.0)
64.9 78.3
Due from joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.9
Other receivables 14.0 21.2
Prepayments and accrued income 23.3 23.8
102.8 124.2
Current: due within one year 102.6 123.8
Non-current: due after more than one year 0.2 0.4
102.8 124.2
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Trade receivables that are less than three months old but past due are generally not considered impaired. As of 31 March 2009, trade
receivables of £5.3m (2008: £8.2m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent customers for whom
there is no recent history of default. The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Up to 3 months 4.2 6.5
Over 3 months 1.1 1.7
5.3 8.2
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
66 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 14 Trade and other receivables continued
As of 31 March 2009, trade receivables of £2.1m (2008: £1.4m) were impaired and provided for. The amount of the provision was
£2.1m as at 31 March 2009 (2008: £1.0m). It was assessed that a portion of the impaired receivables would be recovered. The ageing
of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Up to 3 months – –
Over 3 months 2.1 1.4
2.1 1.4
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Sterling 35.4 37.9
Euro 30.3 35.6
Swiss Franc 5.8 13.1
US Dollar 5.5 6.5
Canadian Dollar 6.7 7.6
Australian Dollar 4.4 6.4
Other currencies 14.7 17.1
102.8 124.2
Movements on the Group provision for impairment or trade receivables are as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 April (1.0) (1.4)
New impairment provisions in the year (1.0) (0.2)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (0.1) –
Unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.3
Exchange and other movements (0.1) 0.3
At 31 March (2.1) (1.0)
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement (note 4). Amounts provided are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other items within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
HRG Annual Report 2009 67
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 15 Financial assets and liabilities – derivative financial instruments
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At fair value
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 0.3
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts (0.6) (1.3)
Forward foreign exchange contracts consist of currency swaps, as described in note 2, together with cover obtained for known major
payments and receipts in foreign currencies. The effect of currency swaps on the exchange profile of borrowings is set out in note 17.
16 Cash and cash equivalent assets
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash balances without restrictions:
Short-term deposits 67.3 48.5
Cash in hand 0.9 0.8
Cash balances with restrictions on use by the Group 0.3 0.3
68.5 49.6
The cash balances with restrictions are held to meet specific liabilities.
Cash comprises balances held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Sterling 17.4 15.5
Euro 22.8 15.3
Swiss Franc 2.7 2.1
Other European currencies 8.7 8.8
Canadian Dollar 11.1 3.6
US Dollar 3.1 3.0
Other currencies 2.7 1.3
68.5 49.6
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
68 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Current (due within one year):
Overdrafts 5.2 1.1
Bank loans 2.6 1.9
Finance leases 0.2 0.1
8.0 3.1
Non-current (due after more than one year):
Bank loans 144.1 154.7
Finance leases 0.3 0.3
144.4 155.0
152.4 158.1
Analysis of borrowings, all of which is unsecured:
Principal 153.8 160.0
Unamortised issue costs (1.4) (1.9)
152.4 158.1
The maturity of debt is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Within one year 8.0 3.1
Between one and two years (0.3) –
Between two and five years 144.7 155.0
Beyond five years – –
152.4 158.1
The fair value of borrowings approximates to book values.
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Borrowings by currency:
Sterling 108.6 94.3
Euro 3.7 2.4
Swiss Franc – –
Other European currencies 7.2 25.1
Canadian Dollar 29.3 22.0
US Dollar – 11.1
Other currencies 3.6 3.2
152.4 158.1
HRG Annual Report 2009 69
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Effect of currency swaps:
Sterling (26.4) (24.5)
Euro 4.0 (5.6)
Swiss Franc 17.6 18.6
Other European currencies 0.3 8.2
Canadian Dollar – –
US Dollar 2.3 1.5
Other currencies 2.2 1.8
– –
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Borrowing by currency after currency swaps:
Sterling 82.2 69.8
Euro 7.7 (3.2)
Swiss Franc 17.6 18.6
Other European currencies 7.5 33.3
Canadian Dollar 29.3 22.0
US Dollar 2.3 12.6
Other currencies 5.8 5.0
152.4 158.1
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Undrawn facilities expiring over one year from the balance sheet date 57.5 40.8
Interest rate exposure
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Floating rate 151.9 157.7
Fixed rate 0.5 0.4
152.4 158.1
Sterling floating rate overdrafts have an interest rate of 1% above the lending bank’s base rate. The majority of bank loans had an
interest rate of 1.00% to 1.15% above LIBOR during the year ended 31 March 2009.
Floating rate debt includes drawdowns for fixed periods of up to three months.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
70 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Finance leases
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 0.3 0.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.3 0.3
0.6 0.5
Less: future finance charges (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of lease obligations 0.5 0.4
Amount due for settlement within twelve months 0.2 0.1
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 0.3 0.3
0.5 0.4
Net debt
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Total financial liabilities – borrowings 152.4 158.1
Add back: Unamortised loan issue costs 1.4 1.9
Cash and cash equivalent assets (68.5) (49.6)
Net debt 85.3 110.4
Analysis by currency after currency swaps
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Sterling 66.2 56.2
Euro (15.1) (18.5)
Swiss Franc 14.9 16.5
Other European currencies (1.2) 24.5
Canadian Dollar 18.2 18.4
US Dollar (0.8) 9.6
Other currencies 3.1 3.7
85.3 110.4
18 Trade and other payables
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables 122.0 107.5
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.6 0.5
Social security and payroll taxes 6.9 5.8
Other payables 33.2 32.3
Accruals and deferred income 33.8 33.4
196.5 179.5
The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
HRG Annual Report 2009 71
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 19 Provisions
Reorganisation Other Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 1.1 2.4 3.5
Additional provisions made in the year 2.6 0.7 3.3
Amounts used during the year (2.7) (0.1) (2.8)
Exchange differences 0.2 0.3 0.5
At 31 March 2008 1.2 3.3 4.5
Additional provisions made in the year 7.1 0.5 7.6
Amounts used during the year (2.9) (0.3) (3.2)
Unused provisions reversed (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Exchange differences 0.4 0.2 0.6
At 31 March 2009 5.7 3.4 9.1
Reorganisation provisions represent redundancy and office closure costs in a number of Group companies and are disclosed as
current liabilities because they are likely to give rise to payment within one year of the balance sheet date.
Other includes provisions for onerous contracts, property dilapidations and litigation, which are likely to give rise to payment after
more than one year of the balance sheet date.
A provision for onerous contracts has been recognised for contracts where the expected benefits derived by the Group are lower
than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
Provision has been made for the present value of property lease commitments in respect of properties surplus to operational
requirements. Allowance has been made for anticipated sublet rental income, and costs to restore premises to their original condition
upon vacating them where such an obligation exists under the lease.
20 Deferred tax
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Deferred tax assets
Temporary differences on pension accounting 15.6 11.3
Accelerated tax depreciation 4.1 3.4
Tax losses 9.4 8.8
Other temporary differences 8.4 10.5
Set-off against liabilities (3.7) (2.4)
33.8 31.6
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation (0.4) (0.4)
Other temporary differences (4.9) (4.8)
Set-off against assets 3.7 2.4
(1.6) (2.8)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
72 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 20 Deferred tax continued
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Net charge to the Consolidated Income Statement
Accelerated tax depreciation (0.8) (0.6)
Tax losses (0.6) (1.0)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax asset (0.2) (0.6)
Other temporary differences 5.0 5.0
3.4 2.8
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the generation of future taxable profits in the
relevant geographical territory:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Tax losses 19.5 15.2
Depreciation in advance of accelerated tax depreciation 0.8 0.5
Temporary difference on pension accounting 1.3 1.9
Other temporary differences 15.7 13.2
37.3 30.8
At 31 March 2009, deferred tax assets include £27.4m (2008: £27.0m) arising in the UK. These assets are recognised on the basis that
there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits available in the future against which to realise them.
Of the total tax losses at 31 March 2009, £1.6m is scheduled to expire by 2019.
No deferred tax is recognised on the undistributed profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as they are reinvested by the
Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Since acquisition, subsidiaries have made profits of
£41.4m (2008: £35.5m) that have not been remitted to the Company.
21 Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit pension arrangements
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension arrangement is the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (the UK Scheme). The UK
Scheme was available to most UK employees until it was closed to new members in March 2003. Its benefits are based on final
pensionable salary. The increase in final pensionable salary since 31 March 2003 is limited to the lower of the increase in the Retail
Prices Index and 5% per annum. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 6 April 2008 by an independent
qualified actuary.
The Group also operates defined benefit schemes in Norway, Switzerland, Germany and Italy.
HRG Annual Report 2009 73
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The following amounts have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Current service charge 3.4 3.9
Exceptional pension credit – (1.5)
Charge to operating profit 3.4 2.4
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 16.1 14.1
Expected return on pension scheme assets (14.9) (13.7)
Charge to finance costs 1.2 0.4
Total charge to Consolidated Income Statement 4.6 2.8
The following amounts have been recognised as movements in equity:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Actual return on scheme assets (31.4) (4.6)
Less: expected return on scheme assets (14.9) (13.7)
(46.3) (18.3)
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 2.5 (2.3)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 21.9 27.2
Exchange rate movement (1.5) (1.5)
Movement in the year (23.4) 5.1
Cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
since the transition date to IFRS, 1 April 2003 (2.0) 21.4
The key assumptions used for the UK Scheme were:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008 2007
Rate of increase in salary 4.00% 4.60% 4.30%
Rate of increase in final pensionable salary 2.70% 3.30% 3.00%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued before 1999 5.00% 5.00% 5.00%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued after 1999 2.70% 3.30% 3.00%
Discount rate 6.70% 6.30% 5.30%
Inflation 2.70% 3.30% 3.00%
Expected rate of return on plan assets:
Equity instruments 7.20% 8.00% 7.00%
Debt instruments 6.70% 5.30% 5.00%
Property 7.20% 8.00% 7.00%
Other assets 5.00% 5.40% 5.81%
The assumptions for the schemes in Norway, Switzerland, Germany and Italy did not produce materially different results from the
assumptions used for the UK Scheme.
The expected rates of return have been set taking into account current market returns for each category of asset at the balance
sheet dates.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
74 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The mortality assumptions for the UK Scheme are based on PMA/FA92 tables with ‘medium cohort’ projections and a 1% underpin in
the rate of future improvements in mortality. Life expectancy at the age of 65 is assumed to be:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Current pensioners
Male 22.6 22.0
Female 25.9 24.9
Future retirements
Male 24.1 22.9
Female 27.5 25.7
The UK liability is based on the assumption that active and deferred members will take 25% of the value of their pension as a lump
sum on retirement.
The provision included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations
Unfunded scheme 8.9 7.5
Wholly or partly funded schemes 254.1 261.9
263.0 269.4
Fair value of scheme assets (197.7) (221.3)
65.3 48.1
The net present value of defined benefit obligations has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 269.4 274.8
Current service cost 3.4 3.9
Interest cost 16.1 14.1
Contributions by plan participants 1.6 1.5
Actuarial gains (24.4) (24.9)
Foreign currency exchange changes 6.8 5.9
Benefits paid (9.9) (5.9)
At end of year 263.0 269.4
The fair value of scheme assets has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of year 221.3 214.9
Expected returns on plan assets 14.9 13.7
Actuarial losses (46.3) (18.3)
Foreign currency exchange changes 5.3 4.4
Contributions by the employer 10.8 11.0
Contributions by plan participants 1.6 1.5
Benefits paid (9.9) (5.9)
At end of year 197.7 221.3
HRG Annual Report 2009 75
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
76 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The assets held in defined benefit schemes were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Equity instruments 110.5 109.2
Debt instruments 62.7 65.0
Property 12.5 16.7
Other assets 12.0 30.4
197.7 221.3
None of the plan assets are represented by financial instruments of the Group. None of the plan assets are occupied or used by the Group.
The schedule of contributions for the UK Scheme has been agreed with the Trustees at 15.2% of pensionable salaries plus £6.6m per
annum with effect from April 2008. This is expected to amount to £8.9m for the year ending 31 March 2010. It was intended that the
schedule of contributions will eliminate the deficit on the UK Scheme over ten years from April 2006.
The obligations and assets are split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligations (223.0) (40.0) (263.0) (235.4) (34.0) (269.4)
Fair value of plan assets 171.7 26.0 197.7 196.8 24.5 221.3
Deficit (51.3) (14.0) (65.3) (38.6) (9.5) (48.1)
Five year experience
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligations (263.0) (269.4) (274.8) (310.2) (309.9)
Fair value of plan assets 197.7 221.3 214.9 185.7 158.8
Deficit (65.3) (48.1) (59.9) (124.5) (151.1)
Experience gains / (losses)
on plan liabilities 2.5 (2.3) (3.6) (1.8) (2.1)
on plan assets (46.3) (18.3) 4.0 22.4 5.0
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit is shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Contributions less service cost (note 29) (7.2) (6.5) 22 Share capital and share premium account
Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
Issued and fully paid
At 1 April 306,833,065 305,634,011
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 929,819 1,199,054
At 31 March 307,762,884 306,833,065
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each at 1 April 3.1 3.1
The HRG Employee Benefits Trust acquired 3,105,661 of the Company’s Ordinary shares though purchases on the London Stock
Exchange on 22 November 2007. The total amount paid to acquire the shares in the year ended 31 March 2008 was £1.6m and
has been deducted from retained earnings within Shareholders’ equity (note 23).
Share premium account
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 April 171.9 171.3
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend 0.3 0.6
172.2 171.9
23 Reserves
Retained earnings
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 April (132.8) (137.6)
Retained profit for the year 9.1 17.5
Dividends paid (note 9) (12.3) (12.2)
Minority interest (1.7) (0.8)
Shares held by Employee Benefits Trust (note 22) – (1.6)
Actuarial (loss) /gain (23.4) 5.1
Deferred tax movement on pension liability 5.9 (3.2)
At 31 March (155.2) (132.8)
HRG Annual Report 2009 77
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 23 Reserves continued
Other reserves
Share-
Foreign based
exchange incentives
reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 1.1 0.2 1.3
Currency translation differences 3.3 – 3.3
Share-based incentives – 0.7 0.7
At 1 April 2008 4.4 0.9 5.3
Currency translation differences 17.6 – 17.6
Share-based incentives – 1.2 1.2
At 31 March 2009 22.0 2.1 24.1
24 Minority interests
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 April 2.5 2.9
Exchange differences 0.1 0.1
Dividends paid (0.8) (1.3)
Share of profit after tax 1.7 0.8
At 31 March 3.5 2.5
Minority interests relate to the following companies, all of which are companies registered in Germany except for Spendvision
Holdings Limited, which is registered in England and Wales:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2009 2008 2008
Group interest Minority interest Group interest Minority interest
%% %%
Reiseburo A.L.R. Atlantik-Luft-Reederei GmbH, Bonn 90% 10% 90% 10%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo GmbH & Co. KG, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd DFB Reiseburo GmbH, Ffm 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo Btlg. GmbH, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
FC Bayern Tours GmbH, Munchen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Bay Sports -Travel GmbH, Leverkusen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Spendvision Holdings Limited 58% 42% 58% 42%
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
78 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 25 Acquisitions
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash paid:
HRG Belgium NV – (1.0)
Spendvision Holdings Limited – (1.4)
Hogg Robinson s.r.o (Czech Republic) – (1.9)
Executive Travel Associates (0.3) –
(0.3) (4.3)
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Goodwill arising on acquisitions:
Executive Travel Associates (0.2) –
HRG Belgium NV – 1.2
Spendvision Holdings Limited – 1.3
(0.2) 2.5
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being
separately identified and recognised.
26 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
In 1994 Compagnie Dens Ocean NV (CDO), an indirectly owned subsidiary, received a claim from the Belgian Customs authorities
resulting in a liquidator being appointed in 1995. Civil litigation is in process with criminal proceedings being considered pending the
final outcome of the civil action. The liquidator is defending the civil action vigorously and has received strong legal advice on the
strength of CDO’s case. The Directors continue to believe, on the basis of such advice, that any future impact on the net assets of the
Group would not exceed the existing provision.
27 Operating leases
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments:
Due within one year 15.9 14.8
From second to fifth year inclusive 37.5 34.4
After five years 15.6 16.7
Total commitment 69.0 65.9
Operating lease commitments mainly represent arrangements for the occupation of office properties. Property leases are arranged
taking into account local market conditions to secure the use of offices with economical rentals. At 31 March 2009, on average,
property leases had 3.7 years to run (2008: 4.6 years).
HRG Annual Report 2009 79
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 28 Related party transactions
Remuneration of Key Management
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Short term employee benefits 2.7 2.8
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2
Termination benefits 0.2 0.4
Share-based incentives 0.7 0.5
3.7 3.9
The Key Management of the Group are the Directors of Hogg Robinson Group plc and members of the Executive Board.
Receivables from joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited – 0.1
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 0.6 0.8
0.6 0.9
Payables to joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 0.1 –
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co 0.1 –
0.2 –
Associates
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH 0.2 0.3
Liga Travel GmbH 0.2 0.2
0.4 0.5
No interest was charged on amounts receivable from or payable to joint ventures and associates.
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Recharges by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 0.1 –
Recharges to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited – 0.7
Sales / provision of services by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.1 –
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
80 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 28 Related party transactions continued
Business Travel International BV
The Group has a 50% interest (2008: 50%) in the shares of Business Travel International BV (BTI BV) a travel service and management
organisation. The Group is currently the managing partner of BTI BV and makes charges for staff, premises and management
expertise. Following the launch of the HRG brand the activities of BTI BV are diminishing.
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Charge to BTI BV for staff, premises and management expertise 0.2 0.1
Receivable from BTI BV 0.2 –
Transactions with Key Management
Key Management occasionally use the services of Group companies for their personal travel needs. These transactions are not
material to either party and hence do not warrant further disclosure in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
29 Cash generated from operations
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 15.4 25.2
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation (note 10 and 11) 11.4 9.8
Net increase in provisions 7.2 3.0
Share of results of associates and joint ventures (0.1) (0.1)
Net finance costs (note 6) 10.0 10.9
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (note 4) 0.3 0.8
Exceptional pension credit – defined benefit schemes (note 5) – (1.5)
Other timing differences 0.9 0.6
45.1 48.7
Cash expenditure charged to provisions (note 19) (3.2) (2.8)
Change in trade and other receivables 27.3 (6.0)
Change in trade and other payables 3.2 6.7
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit (note 21) (7.2) (6.5)
Cash generated from operations 65.2 40.1
30 Share-based incentives
The Group operates equity-settled share-based incentive schemes as follows:
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Shares are awarded which vest for no consideration after a
three year period subject to performance conditions. For Key Management, each award has two discrete elements with performance
conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR) and on basic earnings per share (EPS) respectively.
The extent to which the TSR portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance over a three year period
relative to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support Service Index. Full vesting will take place for a top 20%
ranking, 25% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median.
HRG Annual Report 2009 81
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 30 Share-based incentives continued
The extent to which the basic EPS portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the basic EPS of the Company increasing over a three
year period. Full vesting will take place if the increase in basic EPS is at least 15% greater than the increase in RPI over the same
period, 25% vesting if the increase over RPI is 5% greater and no award if basic EPS falls below this 5% increase over RPI.
If performance conditions are met then shares will be issued up to six months after the vesting date. Participants who leave as a
result of a qualifying reason (generally, retirement or involuntary redundancy) will receive a pro-rata entitlement. The awards for other
participants who leave prior to vesting will lapse.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The CSOP is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Share options are awarded which vest after a three year
period subject to performance conditions. The exercise price of the options is the market price of shares immediately prior to the
award. Each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR) and on earnings
per share (EPS) respectively. The performance conditions and arrangements for leavers are the same as for the PSP scheme. Options
can be exercised for a period of up to ten years after the date of the grant.
Sharesave schemes
Sharesave schemes have been established in most countries in which the Group has operations and are applicable to all employees.
Options are issued linked to savings contracts of up to £250 per month (or equivalent amounts overseas) for periods of three or five
years (two years in the USA) with a six month exercise period. Options are issued at a discount of up to 20% of the market price
immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply.
The Group’s charge for equity-settled share-based incentives for the year of £1.2m (2008: £0.7m) has been included in operating
expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The following table illustrates the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year:
PSP CSOP Sharesave
number of number number
shares WAEP of options WAEP of options
Outstanding as at 1 April 2007 1,731,215 96p 3,809,357 82p 4,879,250
Granted during the year 1,970,875 66p 4,072,507
Forfeited – 87p (47,950) 82p (877,279)
Outstanding as at 31 March 2008 3,702,090 80p 7,833,914 82p 4,001,971
Granted during the year 4,420,767 44p 6,658,752 42p 3,705,875
Forfeited ––– 75p (3,395,196)
Outstanding as at 31 March 2009 8,122,857 64p 14,492,666 53p 4,312,650
Exercisable at 31 March 2008 ––– ––
Exercisable at 31 March 2009 ––– 72p 149,329
Granted subject to TSR conditions 1,482,595 3,123,445 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 2,083,902 4,710,469 –
Granted without performance conditions 135,593 – 4,001,971
At 31 March 2008 3,702,090 7,833,914 4,001,971
Granted subject to TSR conditions 3,079,228 6,427,821 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 4,908,036 8,064,845 –
Granted without performance conditions 135,593 – 4,312,650
At 31 March 2009 8,122,857 14,492,666 4,312,650
The range of exercise prices of outstanding share options was nil to 96 pence with a weighted average contractual life of 5.4 years.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
82 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... 30 Share-based incentives continued
The fair value of options granted in the year is estimated as at the date of grant using the following valuation models:
Valuation model
Grants subject to TSR conditions Monte Carlo
Grants subject to EPS conditions and Sharesave schemes Black-Scholes
Key assumptions used in valuing share options were:
Weighted average share price at grant date (pence) 73
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 15
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 52
Expected life (years) 2.25 – 6.5
Vesting period (years) 2 – 5
Expected and historic volatility (%) 20 – 51
Risk free rate of return (%) 4.47 – 5.44
Expected dividend yield (%) 5 – 10
In the year ended 31 March 2009, volatility was derived directly from the Group’s share price over the period from listing. In previous
years, the expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes for a comparator group of
similar companies.
31 Holding company and principal trading subsidiaries
Hogg Robinson Group plc is a public limited company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England & Wales. It is a
holding company for the Group and its registered office is:
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
United Kingdom
Registered Number: 3946303
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of business services in one core activity: Business Travel.
HRG Annual Report 2009 83
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 31 Holding company and principal trading subsidiaries continued
The following were the principal subsidiaries of the Group as at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 and were wholly owned except
where indicated below.
Name Country of incorporation Class of shares
Intermediate holding companies
HRG Debtco Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson plc England & Wales Ordinary
Business services providers
Executive Travel Associates LLC USA Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Canada Inc Canada Ordinary
Hogg Robinson France SA France Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Germany GmbH & Co KG Germany Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Hungary Limited Hungary Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Italia SpA Italy Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Holdings AS Norway Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic OY Finland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Services AB Sweden Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o Poland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary
Hogg Robinson s.r.o Czech Republic Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Switzerland Limited Switzerland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson (Travel) Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson USA LLC USA Ordinary
HRG Belgium NV Belgium Ordinary
Spendvision Pty Ltd (58% held) Australia Ordinary
ZAO BTI Russia Russia Ordinary
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
84 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HRG Annual Report 2009 85
The facts and figures... We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of
Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2009.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Parent Company
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Parent
Company Financial Statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the
Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the
Remuneration Report that is cross referred from the Business
Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent
Company Financial Statements. The other information comprises
only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the
Financial Review, the Directors’ Report, the Corporate Governance
Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the Parent Company Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
31 March 2009;
– the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
28 May 2009
Notes:
– The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Parent Company
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
– Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPOR T
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
86 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary companies 4 132.1 132.1
132.1 132.1
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiary companies:
– due after more than one year 5 141.0 156.4
– due within one year 6 24.4 13.9
165.4 170.3
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year – –
Net current assets 165.4 170.3
Total assets less current liabilities 297.5 302.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Amounts due to subsidiary companies (0.1) (1.3)
(0.1) (1.3)
Net assets 297.4 301.1
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 7 3.1 3.1
Share premium 8 172.2 171.9
Other reserves 8 2.1 0.9
Retained earnings 8 120.0 125.2
Equity shareholders’ funds 9 297.4 301.1
The financial statements on pages 87 to 91 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director
Registered number: 3946303
PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEE T
AS AT 31 MARCH 2009
HRG Annual Report 2009 87
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
Basis of accounting
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985, and conform with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards. The Directors consider that the
accounting policies set out below are suitable, have been
consistently applied and are supported by reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less any
provision for impairment in value.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as
current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right
to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after
the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs are recognised as an
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting
all of its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Taxation and deferred taxation
Any charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the
period and takes into account deferred taxation. Full provision is
made where required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation for deferred
taxation on all timing differences, which have arisen but have not
reversed at the balance sheet date. Deferred taxation assets and
liabilities are not discounted.
Dividend distributions
Interim dividends are recognised in the Parent Company
Financial Statements in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in
the Parent Company Financial Statements in the period in which
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
The nominal value of shares issued under the scheme has been
funded out of the share premium account.
Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The premium received on the issue of shares in excess of the
nominal value of shares is credited to the share premium
account and included within Shareholders’ equity.
Share-based incentives
The Company operates several equity-settled share-based
incentive schemes for Group employees. The fair value of the
awards is calculated at grant date and is recognised as an
expense over the vesting period. For awards with vesting
conditions based on market conditions (particularly, those based
on total shareholder return compared with external benchmarks),
the likelihood of vesting is assessed at the date of grant and is not
subsequently amended in arriving at the expense for each year in
the vesting period. All other awards are re-assessed at each
balance sheet date, with the expense charged to the Profit and
Loss Account including the impact of changes of previous
estimates of the likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the
year gives rise to a corresponding credit to equity.
Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored
Employee Benefits Trust are included in the Financial Statements.
In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company
remain deducted from Shareholders’ funds until they vest
unconditionally with employees.
Management judgement
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies,
management has made a number of judgements, none of which
are considered to have a significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the Parent Company Financial Statements.
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1, the Company’s
Cash Flow Statement has not been separately presented in these
Parent Company Financial Statements. The Company is also
exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party
transactions with entities that are part of Hogg Robinson Group
plc or investees of Hogg Robinson Group plc. The Directors of
Hogg Robinson Group plc occasionally use the services of Group
companies for their business travel needs. These transactions are
not material to either party and hence do not warrant further
disclosure in these Parent Company Financial Statements.
88 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
1 Accounting policies
2 Cash flow statement and related party disclosures HRG Annual Report 2009 89
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
3 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for
the year. Hogg Robinson Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2009 of £8.7m (2008: profit of £11.5m).
Audit fees and non-audit fess for the Company are borne by a subsidiary of this Company, Hogg Robinson plc (formerly Hogg
Robinson Limited).
4 Investments
Subsidiary
companies
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 132.1
The Directors consider that the fair value of investments is not less than their carrying value.
5 Amounts due from subsidiary companies: due after more than one year
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 140.5 154.3
Amount due from other subsidiary companies 0.5 2.1
141.0 156.4
Amounts due from subsidiary companies after more than one year are unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR +1.5%.
There is no fixed date of repayment.
6 Amounts due from subsidiary companies: due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 22.9 12.9
Amount due from other subsidiary companies 1.5 1.0
24.4 13.9
Amounts due from HRG Debtco within one year are unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR +1.5%.
Amounts due from other subsidiary companies within one year are unsecured and interest free. 7 Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
number number
Issued and fully paid
At 1 April 306,833,065 305,634,011
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 929,819 1,199,054
At 31 March 307,762,884 306,833,065
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each 3.1 3.1
The HRG Employee Benefits Trust acquired 3,105,661 of the Company’s Ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock
Exchange on 22 November 2007. The total amount paid to acquire the shares in the year ended 31 March 2008 was £1.6m and has been
deducted from retained earnings within Shareholders’ equity (note 8). The Employee Benefits Trust has waived its rights to dividends.
8 Reserves
Share- Profit
Share based and loss
premium incentives reserve
account reserve restated Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 as previously reported 171.3 0.2 125.9 297.4
Profit for the financial year –– 11.5 11.5
Dividends paid (note 10) –– (12.2) (12.2)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend 0.6 –– 0.6
Share-based incentives – 0.7 – 0.7
At 1 April 2008 171.9 0.9 125.2 298.0
Profit for the financial year –– 8.7 8.7
Dividends paid (note 10) –– (12.3) (12.3)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend 0.3 –– 0.3
Share-based incentives – 1.2 – 1.2
Employee Benefits Trust (see below) –– (1.6) (1.6)
At 31 March 2009 172.2 2.1 120.0 294.3
The Directors have reviewed the treatment of the Employee Benefits Trust and have shown it as a deduction from equity as required
by UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts. The corresponding entry has been to reduce the amounts due from subsidiary companies
after more than one year by the £1.6m loan that was advanced to the Employee Benefits Trust by the Company.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009 – CONTINUED
90 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures... HRG Annual Report 2009 91
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 8.7 11.5
Dividends paid (12.3) (12.2)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend 0.3 0.7
Share-based incentives 1.2 0.7
Employee Benefits Trust (note 7, 8) (1.6) –
Net (decrease) / increase to Shareholders’ funds (3.7) 0.7
Opening Shareholders’ funds 301.1 300.4
Closing Shareholders’ funds 297.4 301.1
10 Dividends per share
The dividends paid to the Company’s Shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2009 were:
Years ended 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2008 – 2.8p per share 8.6 8.5
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2009 – 1.2p per share 3.7 3.7
Final dividends (note 8) 12.3 12.2
Scrip dividends to the value of £0.1m in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 and to the value of £0.2m
in respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead of a cash payment.
11 Employees
The Company has no employees.
Disclosure of the Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 40 of the Annual Report. SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
92 HRG Annual Report 2009
The facts and figures...
Timetable
The major timetable dates are as follows:
2009 Annual General Meeting 29 July 2009
Half-Year Report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2009 November 2009
Payment date for the 2009/10 interim dividend December 2009
Interim management statement February 2010
Preliminary announcement of 2009/10 results June 2010
2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements posted to shareholders June 2010
2010 Annual General Meeting July 2010
Payment date for 2009/10 final dividend August 2010
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0871 384 2030
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0871 384 2255
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Half-Year Reports and other
information about the Company are available on this site. Designed and produced byfourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG) OUR BUSINESS
HRG owned Entities
Members of the HRG worldwide network
International corporate travel services
At the core of HRG’s offering is ‘Corporate Travel Management’ through which
the Company is able to provide clients with a comprehensive range of products
and services tailored to their specific requirements.
HRG offers practical advice and innovative solutions whether the prerequisite
is for personal service, online booking tools, consulting, events and meetings
management, cost savings, data management and analytics or traveller tracking
– a must in today’s security conscious environment. Furthermore HRG can
provide a totally outsourced travel management function.
The advantage
Clients have always been and will remain the main focus at HRG. They are at the
heart of everything we do and, through our people and our technology, we strive
to deliver beyond expectation.
Corporate travel can be complex but, by working closely with our clients to
understand their own business objectives, HRG will offer the most appropriate
solution.
In short, HRG is about‘choice’; it aims to deliver exactly what the client needs,
whether that is strategy, policy or tactics.
Key growth drivers
We aim not just to maintain but to improve our high client retention rate and
to secure additional new business. Organic growth has been consistent, thanks
to ongoing new business wins and contractual retentions and extensions, as
well as the provision of new products and services to existing clients.
HRG’s success in exceeding service expectations as well as delivering new
operating platforms and total cost savings, leads the way to expand coverage
of many of our client contracts; and a good example of this is the success of
our major UK government contracts which have already enabled us to secure
additional public service clients.
Our acquisition strategy is driven by both client and market requirements.
The underlying premise is that HRG will acquire businesses in markets where
ownership will heighten our ability to provide local service excellence to
both national and multinational client organisations.
Spendvision/Expense management
Spendvision, in which HRG has a majority ownership, is one of the world’s leading
expense management automation companies. It provides sophisticated, multi-
language and multi-currency online expense management and data consolidation.
An increasing area of importance in today’s cost conscious business environment,
the Spendvision offering helps clients to manage employee controlled
expenditure whether using credit cards, personal cash claims, purchasing cards
or other mediums such as mobile phones and fuel cards.
The Company
Hogg Robinson Group plc (HRG) is an award-winning international corporate
travel services company. Founded in 1845 by a wine merchant and an insurance
broker, the Company has always been involved in business-to-business activities
and has evolved so that its business is now concentrated on providing valued
services to, predominantly, multinational and large national corporations.
HRG’s focus on ‘managed clients’ is underpinned by over 60 years of business
travel experience and expertise delivered through its dedicated staff, its cutting
edge technology, its innovative and flexible approach and its broad range of
services. Combined, this unique offering provides clients with real value through
operational excellence and savings on their overall spend on corporate travel.
Size and scope
HRG has owned or controlled operations in 25 key driver/growth markets in
North America, Europe and Asia Pacific which are supported by a strong network
of contracted partners.
The global network extends to nearly 120 countries with a substantial presence
on all continents.
International corporate
travel services
The advantage Key growth drivers Spendvision/Expense management
The Company Size and scope HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PL C
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
Making a difference.
People. Technology. Breadth of service.
CONTENTS
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
Hogg Robinson Group
Our business
1 Making a difference
3 Talented people make the difference
5 Innovation through technology
7 Breadth of service
8 Market trends
12 Highlights of 2009
13 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Review
– Our business
– Our market
– Our strategy
– Our performance
– Spendvision
– Technology
– Awards
18 Q&A with the Chief Executive
20 Financial Review
24 Board of Directors and
Executive Management Team
26 Company Information
27 Directors’ Report
32 Corporate Governance
35 Remuneration Report
42 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
43 Independent Auditors’ Report
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Consolidated Balance Sheet
46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense
48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
85 Parent Company Financial Statements
86 Independent Auditors’ Report
87 Parent Company Balance Sheet
88 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
92 Shareholder Information
