 HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201 0
Delivering value
CONTENTS
Overview Directors’ report
Business review Governance
Financial statements
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG)
What we do
Where we operate
Our clients
Our competitive advantage
Measuring our progress
2 Highlights of the Y ear
3 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Strategy
7 Risk Management
9 Operational Review
Market overview
Client activity
Corporate Travel Management
Spendvision
Technology
Additional financial disclosures
Summary income, balance sheet and cash flow statement
18 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team
19 Corporate Governance
22 Remuneration Report
28 Other Statutory Information
32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
33 Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
77 Parent Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Parent Company Balance Sheet
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
84 Company Information
Shareholder Information HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201 0
Delivering value
CONTENTS
Overview Directors’ report
Business review Governance
Financial statements
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG)
What we do
Where we operate
Our clients
Our competitive advantage
Measuring our progress
2 Highlights of the Y ear
3 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Strategy
7 Risk Management
9 Operational Review
Market overview
Client activity
Corporate Travel Management
Spendvision
Technology
Additional financial disclosures
Summary income, balance sheet and cash flow statement
18 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team
19 Corporate Governance
22 Remuneration Report
28 Other Statutory Information
32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
33 Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
77 Parent Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Parent Company Balance Sheet
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
84 Company Information
Shareholder Information What we do
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG)
Where we operate Our clients
Our competitive advantage
We are an international
corporate travel services
company employing more
than 5,000 people
worldwide. We use our
global reach, local
expertise and business
travel experience to deliver
first-class products and
services to our clients
across the globe.
Headquartered in the UK, HRG serves its
clients through owned or controlled
operations in 25 key markets throughout
Europe, North America and Asia Pacific which
are supported by a strong network of
contracted partners. The HRG global network
extends to nearly 120 countries.
One of our key strengths is the breadth of our
client portfolio. We serve some of the largest
multinational corporations in the world as
well as many smaller national companies.
Our clients represent all major sectors including Banking &
Finance, Retail & Consumer, Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare,
Manufacturing and Consulting. We also have a strong presence
in the public sector.
We also work closely with travel suppliers such as airlines, rail
operators, hotels and car hire companies. For the most part these
relationships are governed by service level agreements that
include data provision, promotional support and distribution
methods. We are also working closely with the Global Distribution
Systems (GDS) providers to introduce common industry standards.
HRG owned entities
Partners
At the core of our offering is ‘Corporate Travel
Management’, through which we provide 
a comprehensive range of products and
services tailored to our clients’ specific needs. 
Whether our clients are focusing on cost savings, personal
service, online booking tools, consulting, data management and
analytics, events and meetings management, traveller tracking
or a totally outsourced travel management function, we offer
practical advice and innovative solutions to meet their
individual requirements. 
Client service is of paramount importance to us. Our goal is to
deliver a world-class service that meets the unique requirements
of each and every one of our clients and which exceeds their
expectations. By providing the very best standards of service
through the delivery of bespoke products and innovative
solutions, we are rewarded with high client loyalty that is the
envy of many of our peers.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Timetable
The Company’s major timetable dates are as follows:
Interim Management Statement July 2010
2010 Annual General Meeting 26 July 2010
Payment date for the FY10 final dividend 2 August 2010
Half-Yearly Report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2010 November 2010
Payment date for the FY11 interim dividend December 2010
Interim Management Statement February 2011
Preliminary announcement of FY11 results May 2011
FY11 Annual Report posted to shareholders June 2011
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0871 384 2030
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0871 384 2255
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and other
information about the Company are available on this site.
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO What we do
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG)
Where we operate Our clients
Our competitive advantage
We are an international
corporate travel services
company employing more
than 5,000 people
worldwide. We use our
global reach, local
expertise and business
travel experience to deliver
first-class products and
services to our clients
across the globe.
Headquartered in the UK, HRG serves its
clients through owned or controlled
operations in 25 key markets throughout
Europe, North America and Asia Pacific which
are supported by a strong network of
contracted partners. The HRG global network
extends to nearly 120 countries.
One of our key strengths is the breadth of our
client portfolio. We serve some of the largest
multinational corporations in the world as
well as many smaller national companies.
Our clients represent all major sectors including Banking &
Finance, Retail & Consumer, Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare,
Manufacturing and Consulting. We also have a strong presence
in the public sector.
We also work closely with travel suppliers such as airlines, rail
operators, hotels and car hire companies. For the most part these
relationships are governed by service level agreements that
include data provision, promotional support and distribution
methods. We are also working closely with the Global Distribution
Systems (GDS) providers to introduce common industry standards.
HRG owned entities
Partners
At the core of our offering is ‘Corporate Travel
Management’, through which we provide 
a comprehensive range of products and
services tailored to our clients’ specific needs. 
Whether our clients are focusing on cost savings, personal
service, online booking tools, consulting, data management and
analytics, events and meetings management, traveller tracking
or a totally outsourced travel management function, we offer
practical advice and innovative solutions to meet their
individual requirements. 
Client service is of paramount importance to us. Our goal is to
deliver a world-class service that meets the unique requirements
of each and every one of our clients and which exceeds their
expectations. By providing the very best standards of service
through the delivery of bespoke products and innovative
solutions, we are rewarded with high client loyalty that is the
envy of many of our peers.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Timetable
The Company’s major timetable dates are as follows:
Interim Management Statement July 2010
2010 Annual General Meeting 26 July 2010
Payment date for the FY10 final dividend 2 August 2010
Half-Yearly Report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2010 November 2010
Payment date for the FY11 interim dividend December 2010
Interim Management Statement February 2011
Preliminary announcement of FY11 results May 2011
FY11 Annual Report posted to shareholders June 2011
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0871 384 2030
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0871 384 2255
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and other
information about the Company are available on this site.
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO HRG Annual Report 2010 1
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Measuring our progress
Eight Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are
used to measure short-term performance
and progress towards our strategic objective
of building a sustainable business which
delivers value to all stakeholders.
Our KPIs are closely aligned to the Group’s strategy, which is
summarised on page 6.
Primary
– Revenue
– Underlying operating profit margin
– Free cash flow
– Underlying earnings per share
Secondary
– Value of client travel spend
– Revenue per employee
– Revenue by region
– Client revenue by industry
Additional measures relating to, for example, client service
and satisfaction are also employed throughout the Group.
Individual client requirements demand that these measures
be implemented at contract level according to the nature
of the operation.
More detail on our KPIs can be found in the Highlights and
Business Review sections of this report.
Our competitive advantage
Size and Scope
– Global network established in 1990
– Owned or controlled entities in most of the key markets in
Europe, North America and Asia Pacific
– Secure and reliable partner network which extends the HRG
network to nearly 120 countries ensuring representation in
Latin America, Africa, Middle East/West Asia
People
– Our employees are our strongest asset and we endeavour to
reflect that in our culture
– We maintain very close relationships with each of our clients.
They appreciate the knowledge and expertise provided by
having a consistent account team
– We have very strong relationships with our suppliers which
have been built over many years
Technology
– Most of our cutting-edge technology has been developed in-
house to enable us to offer the very best solutions designed to
meet the specific needs of clients
– We have the flexibility to work with third-party providers as
appropriate 
– We are keen to support common standards across the industry
and have been one of the drivers behind this initiative
Breadth of service
– We have the flexibility to adapt to client needs whilst also having
the expertise and experience to offer appropriate advice 
– Our revenue, in the main, is derived from client fees (rather
than supplier commissions) as a result of the work we do and
the services we provide 
– Our products and services range from online fulfilment to state-
of-the-art technology solutions, from events and meetings
management to consulting (including benchmarking and
analytics), and from expense management to data warehousing 2 HRG Annual Report 2010
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Summary of results
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009 Change
Revenue (£m) 326.8 351.3 -7.0%
Underlying operating profit
(1)
(£m) 35.2 34.6 +1.7%
Underlying operating profit margin
(1)
(%) 10.8 9.8 +1.0%
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
(£m) 28.4 24.7 +15.0%
Underlying earnings per share
(1)
(p) 6.3 4.7 +34.0%
Reported profit before tax (£m) 21.2 15.4 +37.7%
Reported earnings per share (p) 4.4 2.4 +83.3%
Dividend per share (p) 1.2 1.2 –
Free cash flow (£m) 16.2 44.0 -£27.8m
Net debt (£m) 77.5 85.3 -£7.8m
Financial highlights
– Revenue 7.0% lower at £326.8m
– down 11.6% at constant currency
– Underlying profit before tax up 15.0% (£3.7m) to £28.4m
– underlying operating profit margin up 1.0% to 10.8%
– Underlying EPS up 34.0% reflecting lower effective tax rate
– Net debt down £7.8m to £77.5m
– net debt to underlying EBITDA
(1)
1.7x (FY09: 2.0x); interest cover 13.9x (FY09: 5.0x)
– free cash flow
(2)
of £16.2m (FY09: £44.0m); a return to more normal levels
– Full-year dividend maintained at 1.2p per share; dividend cover of 5.3x (FY09: 3.9x)
Operational highlights
– Client activity levels are recovering
– Client retention rate remains above 90% 
– Net new business wins and strong pipeline will help drive growth
– Cost base aligned to current volumes
– Europe: margin maintained despite lower travel activity; successful completion
of Nordic branch network consolidation
– North America: moves into profit reflecting full impact of cost reduction
programme; margin approaching the Group average
– Sharp rise in adoption of lower-cost technology solutions provides improved
value proposition to clients
Notes:
(1) Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
(2) Free cash flow is the change in net debt before acquisitions and disposals, dividends and the
impact of foreign exchange movements.
Revenue (£m)
Underlying operating profit (£m)
Underlying profit before tax (£m)
Underlying earnings per share (p)
Free cash flow (£m)
Net debt (£m)
2008 332.2
2009 351.3
2010 326.8
2008 37.9
2009 34.6
2010 35.2
2008 27.1
2009 24.7
2010 28.4
2008 5.4
2009 4.7
2010 6.3
2008 15.0
2009 44.0
2010 16.2
2008 110.4
2009 85.3
2010 77.5 HRG Annual Report 2010 3
In extremely challenging
business conditions,
Hogg Robinson Group has
delivered another year of
good performance.
The extraordinary financial crisis of the last
18 months and some tough winter
operating conditions in the Northern
Hemisphere required a demonstration of
the resilience we have assured
shareholders, clients and staff that the
Company is capable of. 
In extremely challenging business
conditions, Hogg Robinson Group has
delivered another year of good
performance. This has been achieved, not
from growing revenues, although we
continue to win new clients, but from
effective management of the cost base.
In practice this has meant taking tough
decisions about the organisational structure
and the number of people who work in it.
I would like to pay tribute to the Executive
team and staff who have made the
sacrifices necessary to preserve profitability
while still delivering the quality of service
to our clients that they expect. 
Results are in line with market
expectations and underlying profit before
tax is well above last year. Taking into
account the exceptional charge
associated with adjusting the business
cost base, earnings are more than
sufficient to support our recommendation
of a final dividend of 0.8p per share.
Together with the interim dividend of
0.4p per share, this maintains the
payment to shareholders at the same
level as last year. We remain committed to
a progressive dividend policy and expect
to increase dividends as soon as it is
prudent to do so. 
Cash generation and debt levels continue
to be a key area of focus for us and whilst,
as a result of management action, period
end net debt is at an acceptable level,
average debt through the year is
somewhat higher. We are looking at ways
to improve this. Meanwhile our existing
bank facilities will continue to provide
adequate funding until they expire in
September 2011. Preparation is already
underway for the renegotiation of these
facilities, which is likely to result in an
increase in the cost of funds. 
Shareholders will be aware that, in
common with most companies, the deficit
on the Group’s defined benefit pension
schemes has risen substantially this year.
It reflects principally the latest investment
values and interest rates at 31 March 2010
together with actuarial assumptions about
longevity and inflation over the life of the
schemes. The deficit is inherently volatile.
No new members have been admitted to
the UK scheme since 2003 and we monitor
the situation carefully having regard to the
interests of the shareholders and members
of the schemes. 
Our Chief Executive, David Radcliffe, will
deal with the detail of the business
performance during the year in his
Statement with further analysis in the
Operational Review and Consolidated
Financial Statements. Suffice it to say,
without the decisive action taken by him
and his colleagues responding to ever
changing markets, this year’s results would
not have been as good as they are. 
For the future you can be assured your
company will continue to respond to
market conditions and will place client
satisfaction at the top of its agenda.
Combined with a keen attention paid to
costs and margins, this should provide
the best possible result for you, the
shareholders and the other stakeholders
in the business, especially our employees.
The economic and business situation has
been improving, albeit at different rates in
different markets and our business clients
are travelling more. This remains a highly
competitive service sector but with our
best-in-class technology and highly
committed staff, Hogg Robinson Group is
in very good shape to take advantage of
improving economic conditions. 
My final words are to thank those who
have left in the past year. Thank you for
your service and best wishes for the future.
To my Board, Executive and other
colleagues, thank you for all your hard
work, dedication often under great
pressure, and commitment to excellence
that typifies this company. 
John Coombe
Chairman
26 May 2010
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Reported earnings per share (p)
Dividend per share (p)
2008 5.5
2009 2.4
2010 4.4
2008 4.0
2009 1.2
2010 1.2
HRG Annual Report 2010 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 4 HRG Annual Report 2010
Our business model has
delivered for us at the
same time as helping
our clients reduce their
travel spend.
Overview
The financial year to 31 March 2010 (FY10)
was as challenging as many of us have
seen. So, it is with great pride that I am
able to report a set of results that show
how well the HRG team has performed.
Our business model has delivered for us
at the same time as helping our clients
reduce their travel spend. Despite a 12%
reduction in client travel spend and a 7%
reduction in our own revenues, we have
managed our cost base to improve
margins and deliver results that were in
line with expectations. As difficult as some
of these changes were, I am convinced
that we now have a fitter company that is
better able to serve its clients and deliver
lasting value to its staff and shareholders.
The first half of our financial year was in
many ways a continuation of what we
experienced during the last six months of
the previous year as our clients wrestled
with the depth of the recession. They were
increasingly willing to change their travel
policies, and often this created further
opportunities for HRG.
In the second half of the year, we saw the
first signs that market conditions could be
easing, as clients in Asia Pacific began to
relax travel policies. Assuming that the
global economy continues to recover, we
expect a gradual return towards pre-
recession levels of travel activity to follow
in Europe and North America.
Two particular trends emerged during the
year. Firstly, we saw a greater adoption of
technology solutions and, in particular,
lower cost, online self-booking tools,
especially in North America. Secondly, even
as clients sought ways to reduce their
overall travel expenditure they continued
to demand solutions that offered good
value. We have continued to focus on
delivering first-class bespoke solutions
which combine products, services and
geographies to achieve greater overall
efficiencies and cost savings.
The question on most people’s minds in
this industry is not whether corporate
travel spending will recover but how
quickly it will do so. By its very nature,
forward visibility of corporate travel
bookings is relatively limited. As a result of
the decisive actions that we have taken
during the past year or so, coupled with
our stable client base and new client
contracts, I am convinced that HRG is
very well positioned to grow. In doing
so, we are determined to deliver value to
our clients and positive returns to our
shareholders.
Financial results
Revenue of £326.8m was down 7.0% as
reported, or down 11.6% at constant
exchange rates. Underlying operating
profit, which is before the amortisation of
acquired intangibles and exceptional
items, was up by 1.7% to £35.2m,
representing a margin improvement of
1.0% to 10.8%. These figures include a
contribution of £1.4m from favourable
movements in exchange rates. Aided by
significantly lower net interest costs,
underlying profit before tax was up by
15.0% to £28.4m. Underlying EPS increased
by 34.0% from 4.7p to 6.3p.
After including the amortisation of
acquired intangibles and exceptional
items, reported operating profit was up by
10.7% to £28.0m; profit before tax was up
by 37.7% to £21.2m; EPS increased by
83.3% from 2.4p to 4.4p.
The year-end net debt reduced by £7.8m
to £77.5m and represented a healthy 1.7x
underlying EBITDA (FY09: 2.0x), with
interest cover of 13.9x (FY09: 5.0x).
Our existing bank facilities are committed
until September 2011. Preparations to
renew these facilities have begun, but
based on current market conditions,
we expect any renewal to be more
expensive than today.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
Value of client travel spend (measured against 2008)
(unaudited)
Revenue (£m)
Revenue per employee (£000)
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
2008 11.4%
2009 9.8%
2010 10.8%
2008 100.0
2009 99.9
2010 87.9
2008 332.2
2009 351.3
2010 326.8
2008 52.3
2009 56.3
2010 61.4 HRG Annual Report 2010 5
The Board is recommending a final
dividend of 0.8p per share to leave the
full-year dividend unchanged at 1.2p per
share. Our dividend is covered 5.3x
(FY09: 3.9x) by underlying EPS. The final
dividend will be paid on 2 August 2010 to
shareholders on the register at the close
of business on 2 July 2010.
Outlook
In the coming months, we anticipate an
increase in travel activity from our existing
client base as businesses generally begin
to benefit from the economic recovery.
This should be supplemented as new
clients come on stream during the course
of the year. Despite the short-term
closures of European airspace due to
volcanic ash, client revenues for April and
May are expected to be similar to 2009.
For the full year, we expect to deliver
further progress.
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
26 May 2010 6 HRG Annual Report 2010
STRATEGY
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
Our goal is to continue to strengthen our position as one of the world’s leading
international corporate travel services companies and to build a sustainable business
which delivers value to all stakeholders – shareholders, clients, suppliers and employees.
The following principles underpin our strategy:
– Our core activity is the management of travel and related expenditure for companies
who gain value from such management. We serve some of the largest multinational
corporations in the world as well as many smaller national companies
– We are client-focussed and see our clients as partners with mutual interests
– We are a knowledge-based business and value people as a major asset
– We encourage long-term partnerships with suppliers who recognise our value to their
distribution channels
– We consistently deliver innovative ideas, excellent service and value through motivated
and empowered people
– We use our independent technology to improve internal efficiency and to provide our
clients with an efficient and cost effective service
– We will own or control our operations in countries where the majority of clients initiate
and manage their expenditure consolidation programmes; elsewhere we will form
strong partnerships
– We will seek to manage our business with low capital intensity and strong cash flow
We employ a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure our progress.
These are described on page 1.
Client revenue by industry 2010 (%)
(unaudited)
Revenue (£m)
0
Europe
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
2008
2009
2010
North America Asia Paciﬁc Spendvision
1. Banking & Finance
2.  Retail & Consumer
3.  Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare
4.  Government
5.  Manufacturing
6.  Consulting
7. Energy (incl Oil & Gas) 
8.  Media & Entertainment
9.  Engineering
10.  Other
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 HRG Annual Report 2010 7
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
RISK MANAGEMENT
Managing risk in our business
Effective risk management is critical to
achieving the Group’s strategic objectives.
HRG has a comprehensive system of
controls in place to manage risks. We
conduct regular reviews of the major risks
which may affect our business and its
financial performance. Risks are identified,
evaluated and mitigated through a
combination of a ‘top-down’ (driven by
the Board) and ‘bottom-up’ (originating
from the operations) approach. Our
Group internal audit function undertakes
regular reviews across the Group’s
operations to assess the controls that are
in place to mitigate these risks.
Assigned responsibility
The HRG Board has responsibility for the
management of all major risks affecting the
Group. Further information concerning
Board responsibilities, balance and
effectiveness are described in the
Governance section on pages 17 to 30.
In each area, the Board is supported by
members of the Executive Management
Team and other managers with key
functional responsibilities.
Performance reporting processes
HRG undertakes a detailed annual
business planning and budgeting process.
This includes annual objectives and
targets for both financial and non-
financial metrics, which are set at a
geographic and business unit level. Actual
performance is reported monthly, with
narrative explaining key variances, and
there are regular re-forecasts which take
account of any emerging risks.
Appropriate policies and procedures
Detailed policies and procedures support
risk management across HRG and the
application and consistency of these
procedures is regularly reviewed by the
Group’s internal audit function. Further
details of this are included in Corporate
Governance on pages 19 to 21.
Risk analysis
HRG’s principal risks can be categorised as
either strategic, financial, operational or
external risks as shown below.
Strategic risks Mitigation
Loss of a
major client
– A diversified client portfolio, both geographically and by industry sector.
– An active bid aversion programme.
– Close relationships with our clients to determine and adapt ourselves to their current needs.
– Dedicated account management team for major clients.
Loss of
a supplier
– A large and diverse network of suppliers.
– Close working relationship with key suppliers in all markets.
Retention of
key staff
– Remuneration policies set with the help of independent advice.
– Formal staff appraisals, including specific development and training needs.
– Experienced Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee membership (further
information can be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages 19 to 21).
Access to
adequate funding
Financial risks Mitigation
– Strong relationships with a number of banks and other finance providers.
– The principal bank facility is committed until September 2011. Maintenance of additional
uncommitted facilities.
– The preparation of regular cash forecasts.
– Strong control by the central treasury team.
Cost and
capital control
– A comprehensive annual budgeting process.
– Major expenditure is approved by the Board.
– Monthly reporting of budget variances.
– Monthly re-forecasting with sensitivity analysis.
Increased
pension funding
– The principal UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new members, with salary caps also in place.
– Professional independent advice is taken.
– Funding for the principal UK scheme is reviewed and agreed every three years.
Further disclosure relating to the management of financial risks is set out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 45 and 46. 8 HRG Annual Report 2010
RISK MANAGEMENT
CONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
Volatility of
client activity
Operational risks Mitigation
– Formal client contracts covering changes in activity levels.
– A business model that allows operating costs to be adjusted quickly.
– Policies and procedures in place for all significant business processes.
Corruption or
reputation risk
– Formal policies for business conduct and contract and procurement procedures.
– Regular communication with clients, suppliers, investors and other stakeholders.
– Procedures at local level enable staff to raise concerns at work.
Failure or loss
of a partner
– Formal service level agreements in place.
– A large and diverse network of partners; regular dialogue with partners.
– Regular global and regional meetings.
Technology or
systems failure
– Diversification through the use of bespoke technology and third party systems.
– Strong central support for technology in the most significant parts of the business.
– Regular review of the performance of suppliers.
– Rigorous user testing of new products.
– Ongoing development of business continuity and disaster recovery plans across the Group.
External risks Mitigation
Significant
economic
or other crisis
– Formal client contracts covering changes in activity levels.
– A diversified client portfolio, both geographically and by industry sector.
– A business model that allows operating costs to be adjusted quickly.
– Diversified supplier relationships.
Competitive
environment
– Ongoing training and development of staff.
– Ongoing investment in technology.
– A focus on high service levels at competitive prices. HRG Annual Report 2010 9
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
As a direct result of our
continuing client focus,
we have enjoyed
another successful year
of client retention and
new business.
Market overview
From a macro-economic perspective, data
from the International Monetary Fund, the
International Air Transport Association
(IATA) and STR Global all suggested that
the recession was easing as 2009 came to
an end. While no one data set correlates
directly with our business, we did see a
similar pattern of recovery and the second
half of our financial year was better than
the first half.
Client activity
The two consistent priorities for our clients
during the year were to reduce overall
travel spend while retaining excellent
service and value for money. Clearly, the
pressure on airline ticket prices and hotel
room rates has delivered major savings,
but there were other opportunities as
clients were increasingly prepared to
change their own behaviour.
Travel spend across our global client base
was down 12% compared to the prior year
(down 17% at constant exchange rates) as
most clients focussed on cost reduction.
Lower volumes translated into a 7%
reduction in our own revenue (down 12%
at constant exchange rates). A number of
specific trends emerged, including:
– Stronger compliance – through travel
authorisation processes, pre-trip
reporting tools and closer direction and
control of hotel bookings comparable
to that for air travel
– Improved data analysis – essential in
the pursuit of savings opportunities
– Stronger control of meetings
management
– More online and self-booking –
particularly for less complex travel
– Increased use of regional service
centres – offering lower cost options
The recent disruptions caused by the ash
emitted by Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano,
which resulted in an unprecedented
shutdown of European airspace, proved
once again the value that our clients place
on HRG, especially in a crisis. We estimate
that about 40,000 clients’ travellers were
originally stranded as a result of the
disruption. We worked tirelessly to provide
our clients with alternative travel itineraries
wherever possible. Clients now better
appreciate the value we give to them and
relationships have been cemented as they
know they can turn to HRG when times
get tough. We have received many
accolades and notes of appreciation from
our clients and have heard many incredible
‘war stories’ from our clients and staff on
‘the front line’. Our warmest thanks and
appreciation go to our staff for the efforts,
often voluntarily, which they undertook.
As a direct result of our continuing client
focus, we have enjoyed another successful
year of client retention and new business.
Our client retention rate remains above
90% and we continued to grow our
client base with net new business wins
over the year.
Amongst many new clients that we
welcomed during the year were Altana,
Bertelsmann, Department for International
Development, Discovery Communications,
Evonik, KKR, Novartis, Scottish Enterprise
Department, Volkswagen, Wells Fargo and
Wincanton. We also secured expanded
contracts with existing clients such as
Abbott Laboratories, BNP Paribas, Diageo,
Ericsson, Ernst & Young, GDF Suez, Hess,
HSBC, P&G, Pfizer, SGS Group and Wyeth.
Noteworthy contract renewals included
Armani, BMW, Bombardier, British Energy,
CMHC, Credit Suisse, Diehl Stiftung,
DuPont, GFK, GTZ, Hess, KPMG, Lloyds
Banking Group, MAN Group, National
Australia Bank, Next, Nordea, Nycomed,
Province of Ontario, Roche, Schlumberger,
Tesco and Vinci.
Our sales pipeline remains strong and
spans a range of industries. One of our key
strengths is the breadth of our client
portfolio, with no single client or client
sector accounting for a significant share
of client revenue. 10 HRG Annual Report 2010
Corporate Travel Management
Europe
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Change
Revenue £229.6m £257.9m -11.0%
Operating profit £21.9m £25.0m -£3.1m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£28.1m £32.0m -£3.9m
Underlying
margin
(1)
12.2% 12.4% -0.2%
(1)
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Value of client travel spend (measured against 2008)
(unaudited)
Revenue (£m)
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
Revenue was down by 14.2% at constant
currency. Underlying operating profit fell
by £3.9m, despite a £0.9m benefit from
currency movements. The overall declines
in revenue and operating profit reflect the
impact of the global recession on our
clients, with travel activity and patterns
impacted by a combination of headcount
reductions and travel embargoes.
Operational restructuring and cost
reduction was a key focus during the
second half of the previous financial year as
corporate travel activity levels declined,
and remained so in the period under
review. We have reduced our operating
costs to match lower client activity whilst
at the same time ensuring service levels
were maintained at high levels and not
adversely impacted. We recognised an
exceptional charge of £3.3m for
restructuring initiatives to reduce costs in
the Nordic region and the UK. Both of
these initiatives are now complete and we
are beginning to see the benefit of these
actions. We continue to evaluate our
network of branch offices throughout
Europe, particularly those serving SME
clients in the Nordic region, as we
increasingly focus on large multinational
managed clients.
Our UK business returned another steady
performance in the face of challenging
conditions despite lower revenue,
particularly amongst its Banking and
Finance clients. We doubled the number of
our UK travel consultants working from
home during the year and this, combined
with increased flexibility of telephone call-
flow switching, helped us to further
develop our ‘virtual’ service network and
reduce our operating costs. Branch network
rationalisation continues with focus on core
‘hub’ and ‘specialist’ locations covering rail,
hotel and 24/7 support.
In our German business we also reduced
costs during the year in line with lower
activity levels. Year-on-year performance
during the first half was made more
challenging given the benefit to prior-year
results of the Euro 2008 football
championships. However, the second half
showed a strong recovery with increasing
evidence of clients starting to return to
pre-recession levels of travel activity.
Excellent progress was made during the
year in re-shaping and re-positioning our
German operations to focus on the large
managed corporate client market. This has
already been rewarded with new client
wins including Volkswagen and Evonik.
North America
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Change
Revenue £69.3m £67.6m +2.5%
Operating
profit/(loss) £6.1m (£1.3m) +£7.4m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£6.8m £0.7m +£6.1m
Underlying
margin
(1)
9.8% 1.0% +8.8%
(1)
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Value of client travel spend (measured against 2008)
(unaudited)
Revenue (£m)
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
Revenue was down 4.9% at constant
currency. Underlying operating profit grew
by £6.1m, including a £0.6m gain from
currency movements, as the benefits of
our cost reduction programme began to
flow through.
The decline in travel revenue on a constant
currency basis reflects the impact of the
global economic downturn on our clients,
particularly during the first half of the
financial year. Online travel bookings made
by clients using HRG’s booking tools rose
from 29% to 41% year-on-year, providing
further evidence of the change of business
mix in this highly competitive market
which tends to favour transaction fees.
A general trend towards online booking
necessitates efficient systems capable of
dealing with high volumes of lower price
transactions. HRG is well positioned to
meet this challenge having invested in this
area a few years ago.
We have restructured our North American
operations through a variety of measures,
including reducing the number of office
locations, introducing more sophisticated
and flexible telephony and transaction
processing systems, and increasing the
number and proportion of travel
consultants working from home. All these
initiatives have contributed to the sharp
rise in underlying operating profit margin.
Our consumer business, which manages
the redemption of credit card loyalty
points for several Canadian banks,
performed well during the year as an
increasing number of cardholders
redeemed their points for travel rewards.
We have also recently launched a new
online redemption product to help drive
growth in this area.
2008 100.0
2009 104.1
2010 87.5
2008 245.6
2009 257.9
2010 229.6
2008 14.2
2009 12.4
2010 12.2
2008 100.0
2009 87.6
2010 82.9
2008 64.3
2009 67.6
2010 69.3
2008
2009
2010 9.8
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
1.0
2.0 HRG Annual Report 2010 11
Asia Pacific
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Change
Revenue £16.7m £16.0m +4.4%
Operating loss (£1.1m) (£1.0m) -£0.1m
Underlying
operating loss
(1)
(£1.1m) (£1.0m) -£0.1m
Underlying
margin
(1)
-6.6% -6.3% -0.3%
(1)
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Value of client travel spend (measured against 2008)
(unaudited)
Revenue (£m)
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
Revenue was down by 8.0% at constant
currency.
In Australia, our largest market in the
region, we completed the changes to our
management team and operational
structure. We strengthened our sales teams
in the key states of New South Wales,
Western Australia, Queensland and Victoria.
Our contract with the Queensland
Government to provide a fully-integrated
travel management system was
implemented successfully with mandated
roll-out to key departments. This is having
a positive impact on this region’s results
as activity levels increase.
We have seen a strong recovery amongst
our Singapore-based clients with activity
levels returning to pre-recession levels.
Clients in the Banking and Finance sectors
have been the first to show volume
recovery. Singapore is fast establishing itself
as a key hub for client travel consolidation
programmes with experienced staff, good
language skills and a pro-business
environment all acting as catalysts.
2008 100.0
2009 100.9
2010 119.0
2008 16.2
2009 16.0
2010 16.7
2008 4.9
-6.3 2009
-6.6 2010 12 HRG Annual Report 2010
We are encouraged to note an increasing
demand amongst our North American
clients for consolidated travel service
offerings across the Asia Pacific region.
We are beginning to implement a multi-
country service consolidation in Singapore
for one of our larger Manufacturing sector
clients, having overcome the inevitable
complexities resulting from multiple
language, cultures and GDS sources.
Our joint ventures in Hong Kong and
mainland China both showed similar signs
of recovery to that seen in Singapore.
As associates, their results are not
included in the table above.
Spendvision
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Change
Revenue £11.2m £9.8m +14.3%
Operating profit £1.1m £2.6m -£1.5m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£1.4m £2.9m -£1.5m
Underlying
margin
(1)
12.5% 29.6% -17.1%
(1)
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Revenue (£m)
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
Revenue was up 5.1% at constant currency.
Underlying operating profit fell by £1.5m
including a £0.2m benefit from currency
movements, following a year of
consolidation during which we increased
investment in resources for product
delivery and customer support.
Spendvision is our proprietary innovator
of transaction management solutions
including end-to-end expense
management. Its online technology
provides semi-automated expense
2008 6.1
2009 9.8
2010 11.2
2008 16.4
2009 29.6
2010 12.5
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW HRG Annual Report 2010 13
claims processing to employees while
offering a company enhanced control and
visibility of its indirect expenses.
The Spendvision business continued to
expand during the year. Spendvision
technology is now operating with clients in
nearly 130 countries and the software
platform is available in 15 languages.
During the year, we opened an office in
Singapore to support growth in Asia Pacific
and established a joint venture in Japan to
drive the Spendvision platform into the
Japanese market. We also introduced
several new technology modules during
the year.
In late September 2009, we announced an
exciting partnership with Visa. Work has
progressed well since then and Visa has
now launched its IntelliLink Spend
Management product, a white-label
version of Spendvision’s platform,
providing a new global information tool
which offers extensive reporting and
expense management capabilities for
organisations of all sizes on a single
scalable platform, integrating with the
entire suite of Visa B2B payment products.
This is being rolled out to all Visa
commercial card issuing banks around the
world and is a ground-breaking
development for Spendvision.
Technology
HRG is developing a number of client-facing
tools, including those which not only allow
clients to book travel quickly but which also
focus on visibility and keeping track of travel
spend. With constant changes by suppliers
to travel content (e.g. real-time updates to
fares and seat availability), coupled with the
need for more efficient and cost effective
processes, technology continues to remain
a critical factor in the travel services market.
With travel budgets tightening during the
recession, companies have switched their
focus from simply ‘making booking easier
and faster’ to ‘value’ and, crucially, how
technology can help them make savings.
Our existing technology and new system
developments allow us to demonstrate the
value proposition to our clients and are key
parts of our offering.
We continued to develop and deploy our
own technology during the year. The focal
point of our efforts in this area is HRG’s
Universal Super Platform (USP) upon which
all our travel booking software sits, enabling
clients and suppliers to fully integrate their
systems seamlessly with HRG’s software. The
initial development phase in relation to USP
is now complete and USP has entered
operational use. Amongst a number of
benefits, USP enables us to connect to
various travel service providers, as well as to
hold and compile various required data sets.
USP thereby enables access to information
and inventory from a number of sources
rather than placing sole reliance on an
industry platform. As suppliers explore new
and different distribution methodologies,
our independent platform is ready to
interface with them.
This year saw the release of two new
versions of HRG Online, our online booking
tool. These were well received by clients
and enhanced our capability of offering an
independent integrated solution to our
clients as required. Our product portal i-
Suite, offering clients a gateway to HRG
applications and third-party products, is
now used by over 200,000 users. In addition,
new releases of HRG Reporting (online tool
providing clients with relevant key data
about their travel programmes) were
launched, and new products HRG Profiler
(allowing the client to install and update
their own travel profiles online), HRG
TripPass™ (automatic online trip authority)
and HRG Control Centre (product
administration hub) were released.
The handling, capture and delivery of data
have been vital to our clients this year in the
drive to control costs. Our new reporting
suite enables our clients to view critical data
online in an intuitive way with both high
level dashboards and more detailed data
views. In addition to these initiatives, our
own agency point-of-sale tool went into full
operational use in one of our main business
travel centres. This roll-out will continue
during the current financial year.
At the end of the year we signed a deal
with a customer to supply a branded
version of our online booking tool together
with access to our other corporate travel
technology which will open new revenue
streams for both parties. This transaction
takes HRG’s technology offering into a new
arena and positions us well as an industry
provider of selected technology products.
HRG’s client-centric strategy means that we
will work with any product that meets our
clients’ needs or has been explicitly
selected by the client. We give our clients
access to the self-booking tool where this is
the most appropriate approach. Where the
travel itinerary is relatively straightforward
clients continue to make bookings directly.
There are examples of clients who already
make 90% of their bookings online. This
allows HRG to deploy resources in other
areas whilst allowing the client to manage
their travel arrangements directly and
receive additional benefits from their
relationship with HRG.
We continue to improve the quality and
reliability of our IT infrastructure. During the
year we signed new contracts for global IP
WAN (voice and data traffic) services and
continue to roll out our strategy of
virtualisation of our service structure.
HRG is focusing on products and solutions
that meet the needs of the corporate
traveller such as mobile services, video
conferencing and diary management.
We are leading the way in technology
amongst the global travel management
companies.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 14 HRG Annual Report 2010
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Additional Financial Disclosure
Revenue
The revenue decrease of 7.0% is comprised
of a decrease of 11.6% at constant
exchange rates offset by a 4.6% increase
from favourable currency translation.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses before exceptional
items decreased by 7.8% (£24.9m) to
£295.5m. Personnel costs, which represent
approximately two thirds of the total, were
down by 7.2% (£15.0m) and other
expenses were down by 8.9% (£9.9m).
At constant exchange rates, operating
expenses before exceptional items
decreased by 12.5%, which compares to a
decrease of 14.7% in the average number
of employees.
Underlying operating profit
Underlying operating profit, which is
before amortisation of acquired intangibles
and exceptional items, increased by 1.7%
(£0.6m) to £35.2m. This includes a benefit
of £1.4m from favourable currency
translation. The underlying operating profit
margin, which is not impacted by currency
changes, increased from 9.8% to 10.8%.
Exceptional items
The cost of exceptional items was £3.3m
for the year, compared to a cost of £5.6m
in the prior year.
The prior year includes restructuring costs
of £6.9m, a benefit of £1.6m from
unutilised accruals related to acquisitions
in prior years and a cost of £0.3m in
respect of an adjustment to goodwill in
Germany associated with recognition of
additional deferred tax assets on
acquisitions in earlier years. This latter item
is offset by a deferred tax credit and
therefore has no impact on net earnings
for the year.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs reduced by £3.0m to
£7.0m, with favourable interest rates
reducing net external interest by £5.2m
partially offset by £2.0m of higher costs
relating to pension accounting under
IAS 19, Employee Benefits. There was an
additional cost of £0.2m due to changes
in exchange rates.
Net external interest costs of £3.2m were
covered 13.9 times by EBITDA (FY09: 5.0x).
The average net debt during the year was
very similar to the prior year, with typical
working capital requirements being
much higher than the levels reported at
the year end.
The IAS 19 pension costs, which increased
to £3.2m for the year, are expected to
increase by a further £0.4m in the year to
31 March 2011.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year represents an
overall effective tax rate of 33% of the
reported profit before tax, compared to an
overall rate of 41% in the prior year. The
effective tax rate for the year on underlying
profit before tax was 30% compared to
36% in the prior year, primarily as a result
of resolving a number of open issues with
tax authorities and the ability to recognise
further deferred tax assets.
Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated
by dividing underlying operating profit
plus net share of the results of associates
and joint ventures by average net assets.
Average net assets are based on the
12 month ends for the financial year and
exclude net debt, pension deficits and tax
provisions. Average net assets amounted
to £209.4m (FY09: £211.3m) compared
with £165.9m at the year end (FY09:
£173.8m). The return for the year was
16.9% (FY09: 16.4%).
Cash flow
Free cash flow, which includes all cash
flow except acquisitions and disposals,
dividends and the impact of foreign
exchange movements, was £16.2m
(FY09: £44.0m), primarily due to a fall in
working capital and lower external interest.
Typical working capital requirements are
much higher than the levels reported
at the year end. Capital expenditure
increased by £1.7m to £11.1m due
primarily to continuing investment in
North America and the impact of
changes in exchange rates.
In addition to free cash flow, the other
major cash flow items are related to
dividends. Dividends paid in cash to
shareholders during the year were £1.2m
compared to £12.0m in the prior year. Last
year, only an interim dividend was paid in
cash. Looking forward, the recommended
final dividend of 0.8p per share will cost
an additional £2.5m in cash.
Pension obligations
The Group’s pension deficits under IAS 19
have increased by £61.1m to £126.4m
before tax.
The UK scheme deficit increased by
£64.6m to £115.9m. The scheme assets
increased by £31.7m, primarily as a result
of investment performance. The scheme
liabilities increased by £96.3m, with a lower
discount rate adding £66.7m and a higher
inflation rate assumption adding £20.8m.
Annual cash contributions amount to
15.2% of pensionable salaries plus a deficit
reduction payment of £6.6m per annum.
The total charge against profits increased
by £1.2m to £4.2m.
The overseas schemes are primarily in
Germany and Switzerland, where the year-
end deficit decreased by £3.5m to £10.5m.
At the year end, there was a deferred tax
asset of £32.4m (FY09: £14.4m) related to
the UK deficit and a further £0.7m (FY09:
£1.2m) related to the overseas schemes.
Funding and net debt
The Group’s principal borrowing is from a
£220m multi-currency revolving credit
facility (RCF) that is committed until
September 2011. The RCF is used for loans,
letters of credit and guarantees with
interest based on LIBOR/EURIBOR plus a
margin and mandatory costs incurred by
the lenders. In addition, there are
uncommitted facilities, amounting to
around £26m at the year end, which are
used for local flexibility.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW HRG Annual Report 2010 15
The principal banking covenants for the
RCF are measured twice each year, at the
end of March and the end of September,
against EBITDA. The covenants require that
net debt is less than 3.0 times EBITDA and
net external interest is covered at least 4.0
times by EBITDA. The definition of EBITDA
for covenant purposes is not materially
different to the definition used in these
financial statements.
Net debt at year end reduced by £7.8m to
£77.5m, which was equivalent to 1.7 times
EBITDA (FY09: 2.0x). Gearing was 45%
(FY09: 47%), or 99% (FY09: 64%) including
the pension deficits and related deferred
tax assets.
Based on our current forecasts, the Board
believes that these facilities provide
sufficient headroom. Preparation is already
underway for a renegotiation of the
Group’s facilities which is likely to result in
an increase in borrowing costs.
Share price
The closing mid-market price at the year
end was 31.5p (FY09: 15.5p). During the
year, the price ranged from 15.75p to
39.75p per share. 16 HRG Annual Report 2010
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Summary income statement £m £m
Revenue 326.8 351.3
EBITDA before exceptional items 44.5 42.3
Depreciation and amortisation
(1)
(9.3) (7.7)
Underlying operating profit 35.2 34.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (3.9) (3.7)
Exceptional items (3.3) (5.6)
Share of associates and joint ventures 0.2 0.1
Net finance costs (7.0) (10.0)
Profit before tax 21.2 15.4
Taxation (6.9) (6.3)
Profit for the year 14.3 9.1
As at 31 March
2010 2009
Summary balance sheet £m £m
Goodwill and other intangible assets 253.5 258.0
Property, plant, equipment and investments 17.5 17.9
Working capital (101.2) (93.7)
Current tax liabilities (net) (8.4) (7.8)
Deferred tax assets (net) 47.2 32.2
Net debt (77.5) (85.3)
Pension liabilities (pre-tax) (126.4) (65.3)
Provisions and other items (4.0) (8.3)
Net assets 0.7 47.7
Years ended 31 March
2009
2010 restated
Summary cash flow statement £m £m
EBITDA before exceptional items 44.5 42.3
Cash flow from exceptional items (7.0) 0.6
Working capital movements 5.7 29.2
Interest paid (2.8) (6.9)
Tax paid (5.1) (3.8)
Capital expenditure (11.1) (9.4)
Pension funding in excess of EBITDA charge (7.6) (7.2)
Other movements (0.4) (0.8)
Free cash inflow 16.2 44.0
Acquisitions and disposals (0.3) 0.1
Dividends paid to external shareholders (1.2) (12.0)
Currency translation (5.8) (6.9)
Other movements (1.1) (0.1)
Decrease in net debt 7.8 25.1
(1) Excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles
The comparatives in the summary cash flow statement have been restated to separately identify cash flow from exceptional items.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW HRG Annual Report 2010 17
Governance... JOHN COOMBE
CHAIRMAN, AGE 65
John Coombe is the former Chief Financial Officer of
GlaxoSmithKline plc. He is currently a Non-Executive Director of
HSBC Holdings plc and of Home Retail Group plc. He is also a
Trustee of The Royal Academy of Arts Trust. He is Chairman of
the Nominations Committee of HRG and also a member of the
Remuneration Committee.
DAVID RADCLIFFE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, AGE 57
David Radcliffe joined the Group in 1978, was appointed to the
Board in 1989 and became Chief Executive in 1997. Since that
time he has re-positioned the Group as a rounded corporate
services organisation. David is a Fellow of the Institute of Sales
and Marketing Management and a Companion of the Institute
of Management.
JULIAN STEADMAN
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR, AGE 56
Julian Steadman joined the Group in December 2007. Julian’s
early career was with Procter & Gamble in the UK and Belgium
and The Clorox Company in the USA, ultimately holding the
position of Finance Director for its Food Service Products
Division. Since returning to the UK in 1994, he has held the role
of Group Finance Director with Eyecare Products plc,
Biocompatibles International plc and Christian Salvesen plc.
TONY ISAAC
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 68
Tony Isaac was Chief Executive Officer of BOC Group PLC until
2006 and was a Non-Executive Director of Hogg Robinson plc
until May 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of International
Power plc, where he acts as Senior Independent Director and is a
member of its Audit, Remuneration and Appointments
Committees. He is also a director of Schlumberger Limited where
he is its Lead Independent Director, chairs its Nominating and
Governance, and Audit Committees, and is a member of its
Compensation Committee. He is Chairman of the Audit
Committee of HRG, and is a member of both the Remuneration
and Nominations Committees. He also acts as the Senior
Independent Director of HRG.
GEORGE BATTERSBY
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AGE 63
George Battersby is an Executive Director of Cable and Wireless
Communications plc and a Non-Executive Director of OFSTED.
He is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of HRG and
is a member of both the Audit and Nominations Committees.
BILL BRINDLE
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND DISTRIBUTION DIRECTOR, AGE 48
Bill Brindle joined HRG in 1998 and has responsibility for HRG's
information technology, distribution and product development
needs. Since joining HRG, Bill has been instrumental in driving
change systems within the business focusing on the design,
development, delivery and support of innovative business
systems and architecture.
KEITH BURGESS
GENERAL COUNSEL AND CENTRAL SERVICES DIRECTOR, AGE 55
Keith Burgess is a barrister and a fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries. In addition to the Group’s legal function,
Keith is closely involved in HRG's international expansion,
acquisition and divestment programme. He also has
responsibility for a number of central service functions including
Insurance, Human Resources and the team which manages the
relationships with HRG’s worldwide partner network.
CHRIS FRY
COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR, AGE 64
Chris Fry joined HRG in 1975. He was appointed to the Board of
Hogg Robinson plc in February 1994 and took up his current
position in 2006 and has responsibility for strategic sales and
global bid support. He is particularly skilled at working with large
national and international clients, especially when undertaking
strategic travel management reviews.
TOM GLEASON
REGIONAL PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA, AGE 60
Tom has more than 35 years' corporate travel experience, gained
mainly in senior positions within American Airlines. He joined
Hogg Robinson Group in 2005 and was appointed Regional
President in 2006. Tom has a degree in Education and is a Board
Member of British American Business Inc.
STEWART HARVEY
CLIENT MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR, AGE 50
Since joining the Group in 1990, Stewart Harvey has held a
number of increasingly senior roles through which he has gained
extensive experience of the Group’s client-facing functions. He
was appointed to his present role as a member of the Executive
Management Team in 2008 and has responsibility for the
Group’s strategic relationships with its key managed clients.
JACQUI HIGGS
GROUP MARKETING DIRECTOR, AGE 62
During her career with the Group, Jacqui Higgs has held a
number of increasingly senior positions. She was appointed to
her current role in 2006 and has responsibility for HRG's strategic
marketing, group communications and public relations including
market analysis. Jacqui led the international team responsible for
the development and global implementation of the HRG brand.
KEVIN RUFFLES
REGIONAL PRESIDENT EUROPE & ASIA PACIFIC, AGE 57
Since joining the Group in 1972, Kevin Ruffles has held a number
of senior operational roles, culminating in his appointment to
the Board of Hogg Robinson plc in 1997. He was appointed
Regional President for Asia Pacific in 2006 and additionally
assumed responsibility for Europe in 2007. His leadership roles
have included: UK e-ticket launch with British Airways; ISO quality
accreditation and implementation throughout the UK; and the
integration of the business travel interests of Kuoni Holdings.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
18 HRG Annual Report 2010
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
HRG Annual Report 2010 19
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Statement of compliance
The Board has at all times been guided by the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’) in seeking to achieve
the highest standards of business integrity, ethics, and
professionalism across all of the Company’s activities. This report
sets out the manner in which the main and supporting
principles of Section 1 of the Code have been applied. HRG has
complied with the Code throughout the year and is committed
to maintaining that compliance.
Board of Directors
The Board has five members: the Chairman, two further Non-
Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The
effectiveness of the Board is underpinned by a balance between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Board believes
that this brings together the appropriate skills and experience
necessary to provide effective leadership and control of the
Company. The biographies of the Directors appear on page 18.
Board responsibilities, balance and effectiveness
Collectively, the Board is responsible to shareholders for setting
the direction of the business and monitoring the Group’s
performance. It is also responsible for ensuring that an effective
internal control environment exists, and that the risks associated
with the business are appropriately managed. It defines and sets
the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring that sufficient
financial and human resources are in place to meet those
objectives. The Board meets its commitment to the strategic
direction and control of the Group by meeting regularly
throughout the year. In addition to a schedule of regular
meetings the Board also meets on an unscheduled basis as
the need arises.
The executive element of the Board is balanced by independent
Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual or group of
individuals can dominate the Board’s decision making. The
Group’s Non-Executive Directors are regarded as independent
and free from any business or other relationship that could
materially interfere with their judgement.
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Directors
conflicts are incorporated into the Company’s Articles of
Association. No conflicts of interest have been noted or
authorised by the Board during the year.
Directors indemnity arrangements
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the
year Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself
and its Directors whether in their capacity as Directors of the
Company or associated companies. The Directors also have the
benefit of indemnity provisions in the Company’s Articles of
Association. These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity
provisions as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The conduct of business
The Company has established business values and standards for
the Group, which provide a framework for the corporate social
responsibility which the Board expects the Company to observe
in balancing the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of
business. These values and standards are commented on in
more detail elsewhere in this report (commencing at page 29)
and are also available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and Chief Executive. The Chairman has overall responsibility for
the Board, which has a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved to it for decision including the Group’s business
strategy, annual budget, annual and half-yearly financial results,
dividends, and major corporate activities, such as the making of
investments, acquisitions and disposals. The Board also considers
regular reports from the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director
and operating reports from individual divisions or functions.
Complete, timely and relevant information is provided to the
Board to ensure that informed judgements are made in pursuit
of the Group’s objectives. The Board also reviews the
performance of management in meeting business objectives,
plans the succession of key executives through the Nominations
Committee, and determines appropriate remuneration levels
through the Remuneration Committee.
The operational management of the Group is delegated to the
Chief Executive who manages this through an Executive
Management Team which meets according to a regular schedule
and also on an ad hoc basis as the need arises. The composition
of the Executive Management Team is set out on page 18.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
The Non-Executive Directors provide an independent and
constructive challenge to the business development plans that
are proposed by executive management. Through their
membership of the Board’s committees they also have
responsibility for:
– overseeing that the systems of internal control and risk
management are appropriate and effective;
– managing the relationship with the external auditors;
– evaluating the performance of the management teams in
meeting targets and objectives;
– setting the remuneration of Executive Directors and approving
the Chief Executive’s recommendations as to the
remuneration of the Executive Management Team; and
– planning senior management succession.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Tony Isaac.
In this capacity, he is an additional contact point for shareholders
should they feel that their concerns are not being addressed
through normal channels. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
20 HRG Annual Report 2010
Board development and training
Newly appointed Directors receive a comprehensive induction
programme, and training is provided for Directors on their roles
and legal obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant
with their responsibilities as Directors.
Directors are also kept informed of changes to relevant
regulatory regimes, and new institutional investor guidelines.
All of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and also to external independent advice
should they so wish.
Performance of the Board
The Board is conducting an internal review of its efficiency and
also intends to have an externally moderated review of its
efficiency during the year. Overall, the Board remains satisfied that
the current Board systems and structures are appropriate to the
needs of the business.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director, met without the Chairman
present to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman,
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors. The
Chairman also met the other Non-Executive Directors, without the
Executive Directors being present, in order to review the operation
of the Board. In addition, the Chairman held a meeting with each
Non-Executive Director to review their contribution to the Board.
The Board met on seven occasions during the year; all Directors
attended each of these meetings with the exception of one
meeting where Tony Isaac was unable to attend because he was
out of the UK.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s
Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-
election on a rotational basis every three years and newly
appointed Directors are subject to election by the shareholders
at the first AGM after their appointment.
Board Committees
The Company has established an Audit Committee, a
Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee. No
person other than a committee member is entitled to attend the
meetings of these Committees, except at the invitation of the
Committee. The terms of reference of the Committees are
available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two Independent Non-
Executive Directors (other than the Chairman), chaired by
Tony Isaac, who has significant and recent relevant financial
experience. In addition to the members of the Committee,
regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings at the
invitation of the Committee have included the Chairman, the
CEO, the Group Finance Director, representatives of the external
auditors, the head of internal audit, the head of financial
reporting and the Company Secretary. The Committee met on
three occasions during the year to 31 March 2010 and all
members attended all of the meetings.
In addition to being required to meet not less than three times a
year, the Audit Committee also meets at such other times as the
Chairman of the Committee requires.
At their meetings, the Committee reviewed a wide range of
financial reporting and related matters including the half-year
results prior to their submission to the Board. The Committee
focussed in particular on critical accounting policies and practices
adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement
that may materially impact reported results. It also monitored
the internal controls that are operated by management to
ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group’s
external auditors. It has advised the Board on the appointment,
independence, and objectivity of the external auditors and on
their remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory
audit with the external auditors. The Audit Committee carries
out an independent assessment of the suitability and
performance of the external auditors in making its
recommendation to the Board for their reappointment.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual
internal audit plan for the Group, to ensure that the internal
audit function is adequately sponsored and resourced. Its terms
of reference also provide for it to review the whistle-blowing
arrangements for staff.
At the meeting to review the 2010 Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the Committee considered the level of non-audit
services being provided by the Group’s external auditors in order
to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence of the
external auditors is safeguarded. The lead audit partner is rotated
every five years.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises John Coombe and the
two Non-Executive Directors, Tony Isaac and George Battersby,
who is the Committee’s Chairman. The Remuneration
Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of the
Executive Directors of the Company and other senior executives
of the Group against targets and for making recommendations
to the Board on remuneration.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has taken advice
on remuneration from Kepler Associates in relation to overall
remuneration strategy, and also in relation to the design and
structure of share-based incentive schemes. Kepler Associates is
independent from the Company. The Committee met on five
occasions during the year to 31 March 2010 and all members
were in attendance with the exception of one meeting which
Tony Isaac was unable to attend because he was out of the UK.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are
given in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 24.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 21
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for matters of Board
structure, management succession and the identification and
appointment of Directors. The Committee comprises the
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee is John Coombe. The Committee
meets when appropriate and met once during the year to
31 March 2010.
Communication with shareholders
The Board attaches importance to the effectiveness of its
communications with shareholders. The Board has initiated
dialogue with institutional shareholders and the financial
community. This has included presentations of the preliminary
and half-year results, and also includes regular meetings with
major shareholders and industry analysts. All shareholders and
potential shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report and
other significant information about HRG on the Company’s
website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM
which is to be held on 26 July 2010, where they will have the
opportunity to receive comprehensive information on the
Group’s business activities and to question senior management
about business issues and prospects. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration, and Nominations Committees will be available
to answer any questions on the work of the Committees. All
shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to
the AGM. All proxy votes will be counted and the level of proxy
votes lodged for each resolution will be reported at the AGM
and on the Company’s website (www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in
safeguarding shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risks associated with the achievement of business objectives, and
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
Within the Group, managers are responsible for the identification
and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of
operation together with the design and operation of appropriate
mitigation.
Risk management software is used at all major sites and for key
central functions and is readily accessible by management.
The Executive Management Team regularly reviews the risk
management and control process and considers:
– the authority, resources, and coordination of those involved in
the identification, assessment and management of significant
risks faced by the Group
– the response to the significant risks which have been
identified by management and others and
– the maintenance of a control environment directed towards
the proper management of risk
A process of self-certification is used within the Group to provide
a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the
operation of the system of internal control. This is
complemented by the activities of the internal audit function,
which provides a degree of assurance as to the system of
internal control that takes account of the major risks identified
by the Executive Management Team.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal control that has been in operation during the year
ended 31 March 2010. The Executive Management Team has
reviewed and updated its evaluation of significant risks affecting
the business and the manner in which they are managed.
The results of this exercise have been reviewed and endorsed
by the Audit Committee and the Board, and are commented
on in more detail in the Risk Management section set out on
pages 7 to 8. REMUNERATION REPORT
22 HRG Annual Report 2010
Membership and terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-
Executive Directors, George Battersby and Tony Isaac, together
with the Chairman of the Company, John Coombe. The
Committee is chaired by George Battersby and is responsible for
monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors and the
Executive Management Team (collectively “Key Management”) of
the Company against targets, and for making recommendations
to the Board on remuneration policy generally. The Chief
Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend
meetings except when their own remuneration is being discussed.
During the year, the Committee was advised by Kepler
Associates on remuneration strategy, incentive design and
market data. Kepler Associates were appointed by the
Committee in 2006 and provide no other services to the Group.
Additional assistance was received from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy
When deciding appropriate levels of salary and other forms of
remuneration, the Committee takes into account:
– the annual and continuing performance of each Director
within his sphere of operation;
– the requirement to ensure that executive remuneration is
aligned with the interest of shareholders;
– the Company’s need to provide sufficiently attractive
remuneration packages for the recruitment and retention of
Executives able to provide direction and motivation; and
– appropriate market rates. In judging appropriate market
salaries, the Committee considers external benchmarking
research undertaken for them by Kepler Associates.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing
policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the
remuneration packages of individual Directors. The Committee’s
objective is to ensure that at least 40% of each Executive
Director’s potential remuneration is variable and linked to
performance. Fixed pay includes salary and contributions
towards pension arrangements; the variable element of pay
comprises annual bonus and long term incentives. No Director
is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Elements of remuneration
Basic salaries
Individual basic salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee
taking into account market rates, personal performance and
any changes in responsibility. No increase in basic salary was
awarded to Key Management for the last two years. Following this
restraint, the Committee has determined that a salary increase of
2% is appropriate for Key Management (other than Julian
Steadman) in April 2010. After considering a benchmarking review
of the Group Finance Director’s salary the Committee has
determined that it is appropriate to increase Julian Steadman’s
salary by 5.5% with effect from 1 April 2010.
Non-cash benefits (other than pensions)
The Company also provides a package of employment benefits
for Key Management. Principal elements include a fully expensed
company car (or the cash equivalent), life insurance, private
health insurance, personal accident insurance and permanent
disability insurance, none of which are pensionable.
Elements of remuneration linked to performance
In addition to salary, Key Management are eligible for an
annual performance-related bonus, which is non-pensionable,
and longer term awards under the Company’s share incentive
schemes, the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Company
Share Option Plan (CSOP). The Committee believes that it is
important that Key Management have a substantial part of their
annual remuneration based on performance.
Annual bonus plan
For the year ending 31 March 2011, the Committee has
determined that a bonus of 40% of base salary will be payable to
Key Management for on-target achievement judged against a
combination of financial targets (principally profitability) and
personal performance objectives. At least 80% of these targets
are based on financial performance and, as in prior years, the
bonus could reach a maximum of 80% of base salary for out-
performance of such targets by levels which the Committee
regards as appropriately stretching. In determining whether
bonuses are payable in respect of any year, the Committee also
has regard to the quality of earnings.
The total remuneration received or receivable by the Directors
holding office during the year ended 31 March 2010, including
any bonuses, is set out in Table 1 at the end of this report.
Pensions
David Radcliffe and Julian Steadman have a direct pension
contribution arrangement under which they receive a non-
pensionable payment of 22% and 30% of their base salary
respectively. Details are set out in Tables 1 and 2 at the end of
this report.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 23
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Directors Service Agreements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have continuing service contracts with
the Company which are subject to termination by the Company
giving not less than 12 months’ written notice or by the
Executive Director giving not less than 12 months’ written notice
(in the case of Mr Radcliffe) or 6 months’ written notice (in the
case of Mr Steadman).
Details of the salary and benefits paid to the Executive Directors
are set out in Tables 1-3 at the end of this report.
As indicated in last year’s report, revised service contracts have
been signed with Key Management which mean that no member
of Key Management has a notice period which is longer than
12 months. As part of that revision, the Committee agreed to
include a liquidated damages clause in service contracts for
Key Management which will be applicable in the event of the
Company terminating the role or employment of a member of
Key Management following a takeover of the Company, but for a
maximum period of 12 months only following such event.
Non-Executive Directors
a) John Coombe entered into a letter of appointment with the
Company dated 7 June 2006 for an initial three year term.
This appointment was extended on 27 May 2009 for a further
term of three years expiring at the 2012 Annual General
Meeting. He receives an annual fee of £125,000 and the
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. If the Company
elects to terminate Mr Coombe’s appointment before the
expiry of his appointment, he would be entitled to one
month’s notice and fees during that period.
b) Tony Isaac entered into a letter of appointment with the
Company dated 7 September 2006 for an initial three year
term. This appointment was extended on 27 May 2009 for a
further term of three years expiring on 11 September 2012.
He receives an annual fee of £30,000, a fee of £5,000 for his
role as Chairman of the Company’s Audit Committee, a fee of
£5,000 for his role as Senior Independent Director and the
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. Mr Isaac’s
appointment is subject to earlier termination by either party.
c) George Battersby entered into a letter of appointment with
the Company dated 7 September 2006 for an initial three year
term. This appointment was extended on 27 May 2009 for a
further term of three years expiring on 11 September 2012.
He receives an annual fee of £30,000, a fee of £5,000 for his role
as Chairman of the Company’s Remuneration Committee and
the reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. Mr Battersby’s
appointment is subject to earlier termination by either party.
All of the Non-Executive Directors’ fees remain at the levels
established at the time of the IPO in 2006.
Share Incentive Schemes
The Company has three share-based incentive schemes, namely a
Performance Share Plan (PSP), a Company Share Option Plan
(CSOP) and a Sharesave Scheme (the Sharesave Scheme).
The following grants were made under these Schemes during
the year (the 2009 awards).
The PSP
On 1 June 2009, options were granted to employees eligible
under the PSP to subscribe for 7,644,636 Ordinary shares in the
Company of 1p each (Ordinary shares) of which 335,875 vest on
1 June 2011 and 1,007,625 vest on 1 June 2012 (the 2009 PSP
awards). The options are exercisable without payment of an
exercise price but, in respect of the additional 6,301,136 of these
awards, being those made to Key Management at the date of
grant, they are subject to the achievement of certain performance
criteria which the Remuneration Committee regards as
appropriate and stretching. Details of the performance targets
are set out below together with details of options which have
lapsed or became exercisable during the year.
The CSOP
On 1 June 2009, options were granted to Key Management to
subscribe for 12,602,269 Ordinary shares vesting on 1 June 2012.
The options are exercisable at an exercise price of 23p, but are
also subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria
which the Remuneration Committee regards as appropriate and
stretching. Details of the performance targets are set out below
together with details of options which have lapsed or became
exercisable during the year.
Performance Criteria in respect of the PSP and the CSOP
In respect of both the PSP and CSOP, a proportion of each award
made to Key Management and certain other senior executives, is
based on the satisfaction of performance conditions based on
total shareholder return (TSR), with the balance being subject to
a performance condition based on real growth in underlying
earnings per share (EPS). The split between TSR awards and EPS
awards is dependent on the seniority of the participant. In the
case of the 2009 awards made to Key Management under either
the PSP or CSOP, the performance criteria are split equally
between the TSR and the EPS conditions. The Committee is
considering revising this split for future awards in respect of
Key Management in order to place a greater emphasis on TSR. REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
24 HRG Annual Report 2010
Chart 1: Total shareholder return on £100 invested 
in HRG shares at flotation
Notes to Chart 1:
(i) TSR is calculated in pounds Sterling, based on spot share prices and includes
dividends reinvested on their ex-dividend date. HRG opening share price on
12 October 2006 was 97.5p. The closing share price on 31 March 2010 was 31.5p.
(ii) The FTSE 350 Support Services Index has been chosen as a suitable comparator
against which to measure the Company’s return to shareholders on the basis of
it comprising companies in broadly similar business activities to the Company.
Awards subject to TSR targets will vest in full in the event the
TSR of the Company over the performance period exceeds the
performance of 80% of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support
Services Index. In the event of the Company’s TSR performance
equalling the median performing company of the index, 25% of
the TSR based award will vest, with vesting calculated on a
straight line basis between these two points.
Awards subject to EPS targets which were made in 2007 and
2008, will vest in full in the event the Company’s underlying EPS
increases by 15% per annum above the percentage change in
the RPI over the performance period. In the event the Company’s
underlying EPS increases by 5% per annum above the
percentage change in the RPI, 25% of the EPS based award will
vest, with vesting calculated on a straight line basis between
these two points.
As indicated in last year’s report, in order to reduce the sensitivity
to single-year performance in the current economic environment,
the Committee considers it to be now more appropriate to
measure EPS on a cumulative basis. Accordingly, EPS awards
made to Key Management in 2009 under either the PSP or CSOP
are measured on underlying EPS on a cumulative rather than a
point-to-point basis. The 2009 awards will vest in full in the event
the Company’s cumulative underlying EPS over the 3-year
performance period exceeds 20p. In the event the Company’s
cumulative underlying EPS over the period is 15p, 25% of the EPS
award will vest, with vesting calculated on a straight line basis
between these two points. The committee intends to use this
cumulative approach in measuring EPS performance criteria for
any future awards to Key Management.
The Company’s policy as to the granting of awards under the
PSP (up to a maximum face value of 75% of base salary) and the
CSOP (up to a maximum face value of 150%) has remained
unchanged since the Company’s IPO in 2006 and the Committee
intends to review the structure and level of incentive awards
during the coming year.
The Sharesave Scheme
No options were granted to employees under the Sharesave
Scheme during the year.
Policy on satisfying awards under the PSP and CSOP
The August 2007 awards made under the CSOP will be satisfied
by market purchases of shares to the extent that they vest in due
course. All other awards under the CSOP are structured as
equity-settled share appreciation rights. Awards made under the
PSP will be satisfied by market purchase shares to the extent that
such awards vest in due course.
The Directors’ interests in the PSP, the CSOP and the Sharesave
Scheme are set out in Table 3.
Value pence
HRG FTSE 350 Support Services Source: Datastream
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
IPO 31 March
2007
31 March
2008
31 March
2009
31 March
2010
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 25
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
AUDITED PART
Companies Act disclosure requirements
The disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006 is contained within the following tables:
Table 1: Directors’ emoluments
Year to Year to 
Pension Value of Annual 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 
Salaries supplement benefits Bonus Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
J D Coombe (Chairman) 125 ––– 125 125
D J C Radcliffe 397 87 34 159 677 517
J A Steadman 270 81 21 108 480 364
G W Battersby 35 ––– 35 35
A E Isaac 40 ––– 40 40
867 168 55 267 1,357 1,081
Note to Table 1:
(i) David Radcliffe and Julian Steadman have non-pensionable direct contribution pension arrangements under which they receive 22% and 30% of their base salary respectively.
Table 2: Directors’ pensions
The following Director received entitlement to defined benefit pension benefits from the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme
during the year:
Transfer value 
Transfer Accrued Accrued Decrease in of increase in 
value at benefits entitlement Transfer value transfer value Accrued accrued benefits 
start of earned in at the end at the end less Directors’ benefits net of less Directors’ 
period the period of the period of the period contributions inflation contributions
Age £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
D J C Radcliffe 57 3,744 –– 2,980 764 ––
3,744 –– 2,980 764 ––
Note to Table 2:
(i) On 8 April 2008 David Radcliffe withdrew from the UK scheme taking a pension of £108,793p.a. and a cash lump sum of £883,509, reflecting the fact that he has exceeded
the maximum capped entitlement under recent pension legislation. Thereafter, David Radcliffe’s pension entitlement has been replaced with a direct contribution
arrangement under which a non-pensionable payment is made equal to 22% of his base salary. REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
26 HRG Annual Report 2010
Table 3: The interests of Directors and other Key Management in long-term incentive schemes and share options
The interests of the Executive Directors in the PSP, CSOP and the Sharesave Scheme are set out in the following table:
Earliest Number at Number at
Date of exercise Expiry Exercise Granted 31 March 31 March
grant date date price in year Lapsed 2010 2009
D J C Radcliffe
FY07 PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 –– – 206,434 – 206,434
FY07 CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 – 96p – 424,696 – 424,696
FY08 PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 –– – 212,733 212,733
FY08 CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66p –– 425,465 425,465
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 –– – 430,841 430,841
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p –– 1,437,494 1,437,494
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p –– 22,380 22,380
FY10 PSP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.12.12 – 1,293,098 – 1,293,098 –
FY10 CSOP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.06.19 23p 2,586,196 – 2,586,196 –
3,879,294 631,130 6,408,207 3,160,043
J A Steadman
FY08 PSP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.06.11 –– – 420,993 420,993
FY08 CSOP 27.12.07 27.12.10 27.12.17 59p –– 440,443 440,443
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 –– – 313,579 313,579
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p –– 1,046,250 1,046,250
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p –– 22,380 22,380
FY10 PSP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.12.12 – 880,435 – 880,435 –
FY10 CSOP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.06.19 23p 1,760,870 – 1,760,870 –
2,641,305 – 4,884,950 2,243,645
Other Key Management
FY07 PSP 13.12.06 13.12.09 –– – 590,746 – 590,746
FY07 CSOP 13.12.06 13.12.09 – 96p – 1,179,483 – 1,179,483
FY08 PSP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.02.11 –– – 608,734 608,734
FY08 CSOP 10.08.07 10.08.10 10.08.17 66p –– 1,211,761 1,211,761
FY09 PSP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.12.11 –– – 1,471,347 1,471,347
FY09 CSOP 04.06.08 04.06.11 04.06.18 44p –– 4,075,008 4,075,008
FY09 Sharesave 3 Year 11.08.08 01.10.11 01.04.12 42p –– 44,760 44,760
FY10 PSP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.12.12 – 4,127,603 – 4,127,603 –
FY10 CSOP 01.06.09 01.06.12 01.06.19 23p 8,255,203 – 8,255,203 –
12,382,806 1,770,229 19,794,416 9,181,839
Notes to Table 3:
(i) No other Directors have been granted share options in the shares of the Group. None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year.
All options were granted in respect of qualifying services.
(ii) The options were granted at nil cost to the Directors and were in respect of past performance.
(iii) No options were exercised during the year.
(iv) The market price of the Group’s shares at the end of the financial year was 31.5p and the range of the market price during the year was between 39.75p and 15.75p.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 27
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Table 4: Directors’ and other Key Management’s interests in shares
Ordinary Ordinary 
shares shares 
31 March 2010 31 March 2009 
Number Number
Current Directors:
J D Coombe 719,583 719,583
D J C Radcliffe 2,330,689 2,270,529
J A Steadman 828,051 828,051
G W Battersby 353,333 353,333
A E Isaac 33,333 33,333
4,264,989 4,204,829
Other Key Management 1,719,318 1,829,318
5,984,307 6,034,147
Note to Table 4:
(i) The Directors’ interests as at 26 May 2010 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report and a date no more than one month prior to the
date of the notice convening the AGM), were the same as at 31 March 2010.
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
26 May 2010 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
28 HRG Annual Report 2010
Principal activities and business review
In the year under review, the principal activities of the Group, of
which the Company is the holding company, have been the
provider of corporate travel and transaction management
services. Within this market HRG targets the international and
national managed sector, where clients require a range of
globally-integrated and tailored travel and expense
management services. Its growth strategy focuses on achieving
increased customer penetration, entry into new markets,
increasing its range of services and developing new higher
margin services for large clients which are attracted to HRG’s
offering of managed corporate travel programmes.
Business review
In addition to information contained in this report, a review of
the development and performance of the business of the Group
during the year, the position as at 31 March 2010, and expected
future developments are also commented upon in the following
sections of this Annual Report:
– Chairman’s Statement page 3
– Business Review pages 4 to 16
– Corporate Governance pages 19 to 21
– Remuneration Report pages 22 to 27
Key Performance Indicators
Details of Key Performance Indicators used by HRG can be found
on page 1 of this Annual Report.
Risk
Details of risks affecting HRG can be found in the Risk Management
section on pages 7 to 8 of this Annual Report and in note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 45 to 46.
Forward-looking information
Discussions regarding financial information contained in this
Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements with
respect to certain of the plans, current goals and expectations
relating to the future financial condition, business performance
and results of HRG. By their nature, all forward-looking
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances that are beyond the control of
HRG. Readers are cautioned that, as a result, HRG’s actual future
financial condition, business performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals and expectations expressed or
implied in such forward-looking statements.
Going concern
The Board believe that the Group has adequate resources to
continue to operate for the foreseeable future and have
continued to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements on
a going concern basis.
Results and dividends
The Group delivered a strong performance despite facing
challenging trading conditions and recorded a profit before tax
for the year of £21.2m (2009: £15.4m) on decreased revenue of
£326.8m (2009: £351.3m).
Full details of the financial performance of the Group during the
year are contained in the Business Review on pages 4 to 16.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 0.4p per Ordinary
share for the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: 1.2p) which was
paid on 6 January 2010. The Directors believe that the Company
remains well positioned for the future and are accordingly
pleased to recommend the payment of a final dividend for the
year ended 31 March 2010 of 0.8p (2009: nil) per Ordinary share
payable on 2 August 2010 to shareholders on the register on
2 July 2010. No scrip dividend alternative is being offered on
this occasion.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy
and expects to increase dividends from the current full year
dividend as soon as it is prudent to do so.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company all of whom held office
throughout the year, were as follows:
J D Coombe
(1)
Chairman
D J C Radcliffe Chief Executive
J A Steadman Group Finance Director
G W Battersby
(1)
A E Isaac
(1)(2)
(1)
Non-Executive Directors
(2)
Senior Independent Director
David Radcliffe and John Coombe will retire at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the
Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to
27. Other than contracts for service there were no significant
contracts between the Directors and any member company of
the Group during or at the end of the year.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company currently has no controlling shareholder. As at
19 May 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication
of the Annual Report, the Company had been notified or is
aware of the following interests by shareholders who held more
than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shares %
Dnata 71,261,277 23.15
Beverweerd Investments 67,626,602 21.97
Artemis Investment Management 36,473,625 11.85
Jupiter Asset Management 27,105,568 8.81
Legal & General Inv. Management 12,185,251 3.96
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 29
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Share capital
No shares have been issued during the year. The Company’s
authorised, issued, called up and fully paid share capital as at
31 March 2010 is as set out in the table below. There are no
treasury shares.
Authorised
Number Amount Nominal Value
513,808,171 £5,138,081.71 £0.01 each
Issued, called up and fully paid
Number Amount
307,762,884 £3,077,628.84
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29 July
2009, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the
market, up to 30,776,288 Ordinary Shares of 1p each. The
Company did not use this authority to make any purchases of its
own shares during the period. At the Annual General Meeting to
be held on 26 July 2010, shareholders will be asked to give a
similar authority, details of which are contained in the
accompanying circular to shareholders. Details of the Company’s
interests in its own shares are set out in note 22 to the financial
statements on page 69.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no post balance sheet events.
Pensions
The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19, Employee
Benefits. On this basis, the deficit in the Group’s pensions
schemes at 31 March 2010 was £126.4m (2009: £65.3m). As with
most pension schemes, assets are invested for the long term to
meet long term liabilities but the deficit referred to above
reflected market conditions as at 31 March 2010. Further details
of pension matters are set out in note 21 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Employees
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and
of any factors affecting their employment. Annual Reports are
made available to all staff and there is a comprehensive internal
communications programme through which management
communicate with employees, and employees are encouraged
to assist in the Group’s development.
Fair and full consideration is given to applications for
employment from disabled persons having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the
employment of those who become disabled. Training, career
development and promotion opportunities are, as far as
practicable, identical for all employees. The Group consistently
seeks to recruit, develop and employ suitably qualified, capable
and experienced people in an environment of equal opportunity.
The Group aims to maintain a high standard of safe and healthy
working conditions comparable with the best practices in the
particular industry in which it operates.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises its responsibility to conduct business in a
manner which engages positively so as to ensure that it reflects
the social standards of all HRG’s stakeholders.
The following is a summary of HRG’s approach to each of the
areas on which it has adopted detailed policies reflecting its
corporate social responsibility:
How we do business
We recognise that our shareholders have invested in our
business and the success of our business will directly influence
the value of their investment. We work cooperatively with our
suppliers and business partners, choosing those who share our
values and strive for mutual trust and benefit. We recognise the
importance of managing environmental, social and governance
risks through our business practices and work hard to maintain
our reputation for honesty, integrity and respect for people.
How we treat our employees
We respect our employees’ individuality and diversity, require
them to live up to our values and provide the encouragement
and opportunity to develop their careers. We recruit and
promote on suitability and merit and recognise the vital role our
people play in providing excellent client service. We are
committed to attracting, motivating and retaining the best
talent, and will maintain our reputation as a company of choice.
How we treat our clients
We constantly look to offer our clients superior products and
services that provide good value. We aim to give them the
highest quality service and strive to offer them the best
economic and environmental choices.
How we behave in our communities
We strive to behave as responsible corporate citizens globally
and good, supportive neighbours in our local communities. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
CONTINUED
30 HRG Annual Report 2010
How we deal with the environment
The Group’s trading activities have only a marginal direct impact
on the environment and contribute minimally to pollution. The
Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner that
shows responsibility towards the environment and in ensuring
high standards of health and safety for its employees. The Group
complies with statutory and mandatory requirements and where
practicable aims to exceed regulations applicable to its areas of
business. Working practices are routinely monitored as improved
techniques and technologies become available.
HRG strives to constantly develop its approach to corporate
social responsibility. Detailed copies of HRG’s current policies on
each of these areas and the way in which it seeks to implement
them are available on the Company’s website
(www.hoggrobinsongroup.com).
Donations
The Group has made charitable donations during the year
totalling £0.1m (2009: £0.1m). Of the total charitable donations
made in the year £0.02m (2009: £0.01m) was made by the Group
and the remainder was paid on behalf of employees. No political
donations were made during the year (2009: £nil).
Financial instruments
A statement of the Group’s policies in relation to financial
instruments is set out in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Policy for paying suppliers
The Group’s current policy concerning the payment of its trade
payables and other suppliers is to:
a) set the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing
the terms of each transaction;
b) ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
c) pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal
obligations.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy.
Overseas subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies by
applying local best practice. The figure for trade payables for the
Group at the end of the financial year represents 14 days
purchases (2009: 10 days). The Company has no trade creditors.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director of the Company confirms that (a) so far as he is
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and (b) that he has taken all the
steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 July 2010. The
resolutions to be proposed at the AGM together with explanatory
notes are contained within the Notice of Meeting which has been
despatched to shareholders with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
26 May 2010
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE HRG Annual Report 2010 31
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements... The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
have elected to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent
Company Financial Statements in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under
company law the Directors must not approve the Consolidated
and Parent Company Financial Statements unless they are satisfied
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the
Group for that period. In preparing these Consolidated and Parent
Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial
Statements respectively;
– prepare the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial
Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate
to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable
them to ensure that the Consolidated and Parent Company
Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group
Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on
page 18 confirms that, to the best of his knowledge:
– the Group Consolidated Financial Statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of the Group; and
– the Directors’ report contained in the Annual Report includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Group, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board
Keith Burgess
Company Secretary
26 May 2010
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
32 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Hogg
Robinson Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of
the Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit
the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements sufficient to
give reasonable assurance that the Consolidated Financial
Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
the Directors; and the overall presentation of the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Opinion on Consolidated Financial Statements
In our opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements:
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 March 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year
then ended;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial
year for which the Consolidated Financial Statements are
prepared is consistent with the Consolidated Financial
Statements; and
– the information given in the Corporate Governance section
with respect to Rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 of the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority
is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion:
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
– the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern; and
– the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2010 and on the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Richard Pollard (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
26 May 2010
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Consolidated
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
HRG Annual Report 2010 33
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Revenue 3 326.8 351.3
Operating expenses 4 (298.8) (326.0)
Operating profit 28.0 25.3
Analysed as:
Underlying operating profit 35.2 34.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 10 (3.9) (3.7)
Exceptional items 4 (3.3) (5.6)
Operating profit 28.0 25.3
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 12 0.2 0.1
Finance income 6 0.2 1.3
Finance costs 6 (7.2) (11.3)
Profit before tax 21.2 15.4
Income tax expense 7 (6.9) (6.3)
Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 14.3 9.1
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 13.4 7.4
Minority interests 24 0.9 1.7
14.3 9.1
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes pence pence
Earnings per share 8
Basic 4.4 2.4
Diluted 4.3 2.4
The notes on pages 39 to 76 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
34 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial year 14.3 9.1
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences 23 (11.8) 17.6
Actuarial loss on pension schemes 21 (66.0) (23.4)
Deferred tax movement on pension liability 18.7 5.9
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (59.1) 0.1
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (44.8) 9.2
Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company (45.7) 7.5
Minority interests 24 0.9 1.7
(44.8) 9.2
The notes on pages 39 to 76 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
HRG Annual Report 2010 35
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Non current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 10 253.5 258.0
Property, plant and equipment 11 14.8 15.1
Investments accounted for using the equity method 12 2.7 2.8
Trade and other receivables 14 0.1 0.2
Deferred tax assets 20 48.8 33.8
319.9 309.9
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 115.4 102.6
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 15 0.2 –
Current tax assets 1.0 1.5
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 58.8 68.5
175.4 172.6
Total assets 3 495.3 482.5
Non current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (135.1) (144.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (1.6) (1.6)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (126.4) (65.3)
Provisions 19 (3.5) (3.4)
(266.6) (214.7)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – borrowings 17 (0.4) (8.0)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 15 – (0.6)
Current tax liabilities (9.4) (9.3)
Trade and other payables 18 (216.7) (196.5)
Provisions 19 (1.5) (5.7)
(228.0) (220.1)
Total liabilities (494.6) (434.8)
Net assets 0.7 47.7
Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders
Share capital 22 3.1 3.1
Share premium 22 172.2 172.2
Other reserves 23 13.4 24.1
Retained earnings 23 (191.4) (155.2)
(2.7) 44.2
Minority interests 24 3.4 3.5
Total equity 0.7 47.7
The notes on pages 39 to 76 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 34 to 76 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 May 2010 and signed on
its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director
Registered number: 3946303
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2010
36 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Share Other Retained Minority Total
capital premium reserves earnings Total Interest Equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2008 3.1 171.9 5.3 (132.8) 47.5 2.5 50.0
Retained profit for the financial year –– – 7.4 7.4 1.7 9.1
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial loss on pension schemes –– – (23.4) (23.4) – (23.4)
Deferred tax movement on pension liability –– – 5.9 5.9 – 5.9
Currency translation differences –– 17.6 – 17.6 0.1 17.7
Total comprehensive income –– 17.6 (10.1) 7.5 1.8 9.3
Transactions with owners:
Dividends –– – (12.3) (12.3) (0.8) (13.1)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend – 0.3 –– 0.3 – 0.3
Share-based incentives –– 1.2 – 1.2 – 1.2
Total transactions with owners – 0.3 1.2 (12.3) (10.8) (0.8) (11.6)
Balance at 1 April 2009 3.1 172.2 24.1 (155.2) 44.2 3.5 47.7
Retained profit for the financial year –– – 13.4 13.4 0.9 14.3
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial loss on pension schemes –– – (66.0) (66.0) – (66.0)
Deferred tax movement on pension liability –– – 18.7 18.7 – 18.7
Currency translation differences –– (11.8) – (11.8) – (11.8)
Total comprehensive income –– (11.8) (33.9) (45.7) 0.9 (44.8)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends –– – (1.2) (1.2) (1.0) (2.2)
Shares purchased by Employee Benefits Trust –– – (1.1) (1.1) – (1.1)
Share-based incentives –– 1.1 – 1.1 – 1.1
Total transactions with owners –– 1.1 (2.3) (1.2) (1.0) (2.2)
Balance at 31 March 2010 3.1 172.2 13.4 (191.4) (2.7) 3.4 0.7
The notes on pages 39 to 76 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
AS AT 31 MARCH 2010
HRG Annual Report 2010 37
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
38 HRG Annual Report 2010
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 29 36.2 65.2
Interest paid (3.6) (8.6)
Tax paid (5.1) (3.8)
Cash flows from operating activities – net 27.5 52.8
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 25 – (0.3)
Acquisition of associates, joint ventures and other investments 25 (0.3) –
Disposals of associates, joint ventures and other investments 12 – 0.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4.5) (5.4)
Purchase and internal development of intangible assets 10 (6.7) (4.1)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Interest received 0.3 1.4
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 0.5 0.3
Cash flows from investing activities – net (10.6) (7.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (40.3) (34.0)
New borrowings 21.1 15.0
Cash effect of currency swaps (1.2) (3.9)
Employee Benefits Trust 22, 23 (1.1) –
Dividends paid to external shareholders (1.2) (12.0)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1.0) (0.8)
Cash flows from financing activities – net (23.7) (35.7)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (6.8) 9.5
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 63.3 48.5
Exchange rate effects 1.7 5.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 58.2 63.3
Cash and cash equivalent assets 16 58.8 68.5
Overdrafts 17 (0.6) (5.2)
58.2 63.3
The notes on pages 39 to 76 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
HRG Annual Report 2010 39
Basis of preparation: International Financial Reporting Standards
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union,
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
(IFRIC) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the IFRS financial statements requires the use
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the period. Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions,
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates, as
noted in the Key Management judgements policy on page 44.
Basis of accounting
The Directors consider that, taking into account the assets, revenue
and financing facilities of the Group, the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. Accordingly the Directors adopt the going concern basis for
the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Report.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on
the historical cost basis of accounting except for the revaluation
of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied to all years presented. No
changes have been made to the accounting policies by comparison
with those applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the
year ended 31 March 2009 other than as described below.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs
as of 1 April 2009:
– IAS 1 (revised), Presentation of Financial Statements, effective for
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The
revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income
and expenses (that is, ‘non-owner changes in equity’) in the
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity, requiring non-
owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner
changes in equity in a Consolidated Statement Of Comprehensive
Income. As the change in accounting policy only impacts
presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
– In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for
accounting periods ending on or after 1 January 2009, the
Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as
part of the cost of that asset. The Group previously recognised
all borrowing costs as an expense immediately. This change in
accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23,
Borrowing costs (revised 2007) in accordance with the
transitional provisions of the standard; comparative figures
have not been restated. There has been no impact on
earnings per share as a result of adopting this standard.
– IFRS 2 (amendment), Share-based Payment, (effective for
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009), deals
with vesting conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting
conditions are service conditions and performance conditions
only. Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting
conditions. These features would need to be included in the
grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others
providing similar services; they would not impact the number of
awards expected to vest or valuation there of subsequent to
grant date. All cancellations, whether by the entity or by other
parties, should receive the same accounting treatment. The
Group has adopted IFRS 2 (amendment) from 1 April 2009.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IFRS 3 (revised), Business Combinations (effective for accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009). The revised standard
requires all payments to purchase a business to be recorded at
fair value at the acquisition date with contingent payments
classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the
Consolidated Income Statement. Although this revised standard
is not effective until 1 July 2009, it has been early adopted by
the Group in the year ended 31 March 2010 due to the changes
it includes in respect of the recognition of deferred tax assets
following a business combination and the resultant impact on
goodwill. This does not have a material impact on the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IAS 38 (amendment), Intangible Assets, is required to be
adopted at the same time as IFRS 3 (revised). The amendment
clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible
asset acquired in a business combination and has had no
material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IFRS 7, Financial Instruments – Disclosures (amendment),
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after
1 January 2009. The amendment requires enhanced
disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk. In
particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value
measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the
disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IFRS 8, Operating Segments (effective for accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2009), requires that entities
adopt the ‘management approach’ to reporting the financial
performance of its operating segments, under which segment
information is presented on the same basis as that used for
internal reporting purposes using the measure reported to the
chief operating decision maker. During the year management
have aligned the segmental disclosures provided in the
Consolidated Financial Statements to the internal reporting
lines considered by the chief operating decision maker. This
has resulted in the previously reported operating segment of
Business Travel now being reported as two distinct segments.
Further segmented reporting information is given in note 3.
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
40 HRG Annual Report 2010
A project of annual improvements to IFRS published by
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) became
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after
1 January 2009, proposing amendments to a number of
standards. The adoption of these amendments does not have
a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing
standards that are not yet effective and have not been early
adopted by the Group
The following standards and amendments to existing standards
have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010 or later
periods, but the Group has not early adopted them. The Directors
anticipate that the adoption of amended standards will not have
a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
– IAS 1 (amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential
settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant
to its classification as current or non-current.
– IAS 27 (revised), Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements, (effective for accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 July 2009). The revised standard requires the effects of
all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in
equity if there is no change in control and these transactions
will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
– IFRS 2 (amendments), Group cash-settled share-based
payment transaction. The amendments expand on the
guidance in the classification of group arrangements.
– IFRS 5 (amendment), Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations. The amendment provides
clarification that specifies the disclosures required in respect of
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for
sale or discontinued operations.
– IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners (effective
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009). The
interpretation was published in November 2008 and provides
guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity
distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a
distribution of reserves or as dividends.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results and
net assets of Hogg Robinson Group plc, (the Company), and its
subsidiaries. Together these form the Group.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities in which the Company has the power
to control and govern the financial and operating activities,
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of
the voting rights. Subsidiary companies have been consolidated
from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
The cost of acquisition of subsidiaries is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. The excess of the cost of acquisition over fair
value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are changed
where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted
by the Group.
Transactions with minority interests
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority
interests as transactions with third parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the
Group that are recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Increases in stake acquired from minority interests result in
changes to goodwill, where there is a difference between
consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the
carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are entities that are not subsidiaries, in which the
Group shares control as a party to a contract. Associates are entities,
other than subsidiaries or joint ventures, in which the Group has
the power to participate in the financial and policy decisions.
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures
is included in the Consolidated Income Statement. Investments
in associates and joint ventures are included in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at cost adjusted by subsequent share of profits or
losses, dividends received and any impairment. When the
Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or
exceeds its interest in it, the Group does not recognise further
losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on
behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable for goods and services provided in the
normal course of business, net of discounts and rebates, value
added tax and other sales related taxes. Revenue does not
include transactions entered into by Group clients for which the
Group acts as agent.
Revenue represents service fees earned from clients,
management fees and revenue and commissions from suppliers.
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies continued
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 41
Client service fees are earned by charging a transaction or
management fee for airline or other transactions, based on
contractual agreements with travel clients. Transaction revenue
is recognised at the time of ticketing of the travel arrangement
with the exception of hotel related income, which is recognised
at the time of booking. Management fees are recognised over
the period of time that the service is provided to the client.
Supplier revenues are earned under sales and marketing
agreements, incentive arrangements and distribution and system
usage agreements. In such cases, revenue is measured at each
balance sheet date as total anticipated income multiplied by the
percentage stage of completion of the contract.
In certain circumstances, suppliers pay commission on airline
tickets issued. This revenue is recognised at the time a ticket is
purchased.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes or
amounts paid directly to the personal pension plans of
employees are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are measured
at their fair value at the balance sheet date and compared to the
liabilities of those schemes at the same date, measured on an
actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method. The
discount rate used is the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
Costs of defined benefit pension schemes arising from
employee service in the current period are charged to operating
expenses. The increase in the present value of pension scheme
liabilities relating to employee service in prior periods but
arising in the current period as a result of benefit improvements
is charged to operating expenses over the period during
which such improvements vest. The expected return on the
schemes’ assets and the increase during the period in the
present value of the schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage
of time are included in other finance income. Actuarial gains
and losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits may be payable when employment is
terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in
exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination
benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either
terminating the employment of current employees according to
a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or
providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to
encourage voluntary redundancy.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses
based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit
attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain
adjustments.
Share-based incentives
The Group operates several equity-settled share-based incentive
schemes for employees. The fair value of the awards is calculated
at grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting
period. For awards with vesting conditions based on market
conditions (particularly, those based on total shareholder return
compared with external benchmarks), the likelihood of vesting is
assessed at the date of grant and is not subsequently amended
in arriving at the expense for each year in the vesting period. All
other awards are re-assessed at each balance sheet date, with
the expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement,
including the impact of changes of previous estimates of the
likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the year gives rise to a
corresponding credit to equity.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those significant items which due to their
size and/or nature are separately disclosed to provide a full
understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the surplus of the purchase consideration
over the Group’s share of the fair value of the separable net assets
of the subsidiary or interest in the associate or joint venture
acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in
intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in
associates and joint ventures is included in ‘investments
accounted for using the equity method’ and is tested for
impairment as part of the Group’s total goodwill. Separately
recognised goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in operating expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The review of impairment includes examination of anticipated
cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill
relates. Cash generating units are determined by geography.
Goodwill is written down to its estimated recoverable amount,
being the higher of:
– fair value, the amount obtainable from sale on an arm’s length
basis, less the costs of disposal; and
– the value in use, the net present value of future cash flows
expected to be generated from the business.
When a business is disposed of the carrying amount of goodwill
applicable is taken into account in determining the profit or loss
on disposal.
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies continued
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
42 HRG Annual Report 2010
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to
IFRS, 1 April 2003, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment since that date.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without
physical substance. They are stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment. Cost includes third party
purchases, the directly attributable costs of internally generated
assets and the fair value of identifiable intangible assets arising
on acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2003.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of all intangible assets, less
the estimated residual value, using the straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives as follows:
Computer software and intellectual property 3-10 years
Client relationships in acquired businesses 10 years
Amortisation is charged to operating expenses in the
Consolidated Income Statement.
Computer software includes the cost of internally generated
software which is capitalised when it is probable that economic
benefits will flow to the Group from the asset being developed,
and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical
feasibility can be demonstrated. Capitalisation ceases when the
asset being developed is ready for use. Research expenditure
incurred is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment. Cost is defined as expenditure that
is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of all property, plant and
equipment, less the estimated residual value, using the straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Property:
Long-term leaseholds 50 years
Short-term leaseholds and structural
leasehold improvements the lease term
Plant and equipment:
IT and office equipment 2-7 years
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset
may be impaired. If any such indicator exists, impairment is
tested by estimating the recoverable amount. If the recoverable
amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment
charge is made.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instrument as follows:
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets as either at fair value
through profit or loss or loans and receivables. The classification
depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were
acquired. Management determines the classification of its
financial assets at initial recognition.
At fair value through profit or loss – Financial instruments at fair
value through profit or loss are financial instruments held for
trading. A financial instrument is classified in this category if
acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they
are designated as hedges. Financial instruments in this category
are classified as current assets or liabilities.
Loans and receivables – Loans and receivables are non-derivative
financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not
quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets,
except where expected maturity is greater than 12 months after
the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade and other
receivables and cash and cash equivalent assets in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on
the trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to
purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at
fair value for all financial assets not carried at fair value through
profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit
or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs
are expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement. Financial
assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows
from the investments have expired or have been transferred and
the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of
ownership. Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost
using the effective interest method.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are
presented in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period
in which they arise.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies continued
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 43
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or
delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue) are
considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a
provision account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in
the Consolidated Income Statement. When a trade receivable is
not collectible, it is written off against the provision account for
trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously
written off are credited to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance
sheet date. Currency swaps are stated at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Exchange movements on foreign
currency borrowings are taken to reserves to the extent that the
borrowing is in the functional currency of the obligor and to the
Consolidated Income Statement to the extent it is not. Changes in
the fair value of currency swaps are taken to the Consolidated
Income Statement. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in
the year in which they are incurred. Debt issue costs are amortised
proportionally over the anticipated life of the relevant debt facility.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all
of its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Other financial instruments are stated at fair value with differences
on valuation taken to the Consolidated Income Statement or to
reserves if hedge accounting has been established for the
particular instrument. These include interest rate caps and
amounts receivable or payable in foreign currency together with
the forward foreign currency exchange contracts used to fix their
value. Fair values are derived from published financial data.
Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of each
of the Group’s subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and
associates are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (the
functional currency). The Consolidated Financial Statements are
presented in sterling which is the Company’s functional and
presentational currency.
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency of the relevant entity using the exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such
transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income
Statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash
flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures
and associates in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
results of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation at closing
rates of net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates, together with those on foreign currency loans which
finance them, are taken to reserves and reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected
to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of
transition to IFRS (1 April 2003) as a sterling denominated asset.
Leasing
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Other leases are
classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements
are included in property, plant and equipment and are
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful
economic life. Lease obligations are stated net of finance charges
attributable to future periods. Finance costs are allocated over
the period of the lease to give a constant rate of change.
Operating lease rentals, net of any incentives received from the
lessor, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over
the life of the lease.
Taxation
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates the positions taken in tax
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax
regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions
where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid
to the tax authorities.
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies continued
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
44 HRG Annual Report 2010
1 General information and summary of principal accounting policies continued
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using
tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the
deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividend distributions
Interim dividends are recognised in the Consolidated Financial
Statements in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised
in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s
shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
The nominal value of shares issued under the scheme has been
funded out of the share premium account.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be necessary to settle the
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions
for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a
detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties. Provisions are discounted
where the impact is material.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash
and cash equivalents includes bank balances and deposits with
original maturities of three months or less. It also includes bank
overdrafts which form an integral part of the Group’s cash
management and are likely to fluctuate from overdrawn to
positive balances. Bank overdrafts, where there is no right of set-
off, are shown as borrowings within current liabilities.
Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The premium received on the issue of shares in excess of the
nominal value of shares is credited to the share premium
account and included within shareholders’ equity.
Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored
Employee Benefits Trust are included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares
in the Company remain deducted from shareholders’ funds
until they vest unconditionally with employees.
Related party transactions
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under IAS 24,
Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions and balances
between Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Critical accounting estimates and Key Management judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.
The principal management judgements made in the preparation
of these Consolidated Financial Statements are:
– the assessment of the impairment of goodwill at each balance
sheet date (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by each business in the Group;
– the valuation of client relationships for intangible assets at
acquisition (see note 10). This process depends on the
preparation of estimates of future cash flows expected to be
generated by existing clients at acquisition;
– the capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets. This
process depends on it being probable that economic benefits
will flow to the Group from the asset being developed, the
cost of the asset being reliably measured and the technical
feasibility being demonstrated;
– the evaluation of the recoverability of deferred tax assets (see
note 20), which depends on the assessment of the probability
that there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits
available in future against which to realise them;
– the evaluation of retirement benefit obligations. This depends
on the actuarial assumptions set out in note 21, including
estimates of future returns on scheme assets; and
– within revenue there are key judgements made by management
in terms of revenue recognition. The Group uses a percentage of
completion method to measure supplier revenues earned under
sales and marketing agreements, incentive arrangements, and
distribution and usage agreements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 45
2 Financial risk management
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Risk management policy
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential
adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department, (Group Treasury),
under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury identifies and evaluates financial risks and uses derivative financial
instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group’s treasury policy does not allow transactions of a speculative nature.
The Group arranges central borrowing facilities and maintains local banking relationships to enable it to meet payment obligations as
they fall due, taking into account information from its cash forecasts and business plans. The amounts of unused borrowing facilities
are set out in note 17.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern while providing
adequate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital
to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. It may also increase debt provided that the funded venture provides
adequate returns so that the overall capital structure remains supportable.
The Group uses an operational gearing ratio to manage net debt
(1)
to ensure that covenants within banking arrangements are complied
with. Using a ratio of EBITDA
(2)
before exceptional items to net debt, at 31 March 2010 the operational gearing ratio was 1.7 (2009: 2.0). The
definition of EBITDA for covenant purposes is not materially different to the definition used in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement
and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity
instrument are disclosed within General information and accounting policies (see note 1).
(1) Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet but excluding unamortised loan
issue costs) less cash and cash equivalent assets.
(2) Earnings before net finance costs, income taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Foreign currency risk
The translation of non-Sterling earnings, assets and liabilities of the Group is affected by changes in exchange rates.
The Group uses short-term currency swaps linked to intercompany lending to manage the currency profile of external borrowings.
Net debt at 31 March 2010 included £28.9m of non-Sterling debt (2009: £19.1m) with changes in exchange rates, including the effect
of currency swaps, increasing the balance by £5.8m.
The Group’s transaction exposure is limited, with the majority of its transactions denominated in the currency of the country of operation.
In the few instances where there is exposure, short-term hedges are taken once the exposure can be accurately identified.
The following principal exchange rates have been used in the Consolidated Financial Statements:
Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Balance Sheet
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change
Euro 1.13 1.20 +6% 1.12 1.08 –4%
Swiss Franc 1.69 1.87 +10% 1.60 1.63 +2%
US Dollar 1.60 1.70 +6% 1.52 1.43 –6%
Canadian Dollar 1.73 1.91 +10% 1.54 1.80 +14%
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
For the year ended 31 March 2010, if the average value of Sterling had been 5% higher or lower relative to other currencies than
actual, the profit before tax of the Group would have been reduced or increased by £1.1m compared to the actual result (2009:
£0.1m). The impact on equity would be a movement of £5.6m (2009: £2.8m) mainly arising on foreign currency exchange gains or
losses on translation of net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
46 HRG Annual Report 2010
2 Financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on any borrowing at floating interest rates. The interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility
(RCF) is not currently fixed, although the Group keeps this situation under review.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
For the year ended 31 March 2010, if interest rates in all currencies in which the Group has borrowings had been higher or lower by
1%, interest cost would have been increased or reduced by £1.4m (2009: £1.5m).
Credit risk
The risk associated with deposits in commercial banks is managed by diversifying with a number of well known financial institutions
together with a periodic view of ratings attributed by major credit rating institutions.
The risk associated with clients and suppliers is not material based on the current client concentration and the large number of
countries where the Group trades. The Group makes widespread use of credit checks in respect of clients.
Liquidity risk
The RCF is committed until September 2011 and used for loans, letters of credit and guarantees. In addition, the Group has
uncommitted facilities that are used for local flexibility. Working capital requirements fluctuate significantly during the year, with
March and September typically being the lowest levels.
Liquidity and interest risk tables
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities including future expected interest payable and net-settled derivative financial
liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying
value as the impact of discounting is not significant:
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 March 2010 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings (2.8) (136.1) ––
Trade and other payables (213.2) –––
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 March 2009 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings (13.0) (4.6) (151.6) –
Derivative financial instruments (0.6) –––
Trade and other payables (196.5) –––
3 Segment information
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Executive Management Team, which reviews the Group’s internal
reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. The Executive Management Team has determined the operating
segments based on these reports.
The Executive Management Team considers the business from the perspective of two core activities, Corporate Travel Management,
which is analysed into three distinct geographic segments, and Spendvision. The Group’s internal reporting processes do not
distinguish between the numerous sources of income that comprise revenue for Corporate Travel Management. The performance of
the operating segments is assessed based on a measure of operating profit excluding items of an exceptional nature. Interest income
and expenditure and income tax expense are not included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Executive
Management Team. Other information provided, except as noted below, to the Executive Management Team is measured in a
manner consistent with that in the financial statements.
Total segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalent assets, current tax assets and deferred tax assets which are managed on a
central basis. These are included as part of the reconciliation to total Consolidated Balance Sheet assets.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 Segment information continued
Corporate Travel Management
North Asia
Europe America Pacific Total Spendvision Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 March 2010
Revenue from external customers 229.6 69.3 16.7 315.6 11.2 326.8
Underlying operating profit 28.1 6.8 (1.1) 33.8 1.4 35.2
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2.9) (0.7) – (3.6) (0.3) (3.9)
Operating profit before exceptional items 25.2 6.1 (1.1) 30.2 1.1 31.3
Exceptional items (3.3) –– (3.3) – (3.3)
Operating profit 21.9 6.1 (1.1) 26.9 1.1 28.0
Underlying margin 12.2% 9.8% –6.6% 10.7% 12.5% 10.8%
Year ended 31 March 2009 (restated)
Revenue from external customers 257.9 67.6 16.0 341.5 9.8 351.3
Underlying operating profit 32.0 0.7 (1.0) 31.7 2.9 34.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2.7) (0.7) – (3.4) (0.3) (3.7)
Operating profit before exceptional items 29.3 – (1.0) 28.3 2.6 30.9
Exceptional items (4.3) (1.3) – (5.6) – (5.6)
Operating profit 25.0 (1.3) (1.0) 22.7 2.6 25.3
Underlying margin 12.4% 1.0% –6.3% 9.3% 29.6% 9.8%
The results for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been restated to reflect Spendvision as a separate operating segment.
External revenue from clients by geographical area (where the client is located) is not materially different from external revenue from
clients by origin (where the Group’s operations are located) disclosed above.
There is no material inter-segment revenue.
A reconciliation of operating profit to total profit before income tax expense is provided in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Corporate Travel Management
North Asia
Europe America Pacific Total Spendvision Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total segment assets
31 March 2010 272.0 95.7 12.1 379.8 6.9 386.7
31 March 2009 (restated) 275.1 87.6 11.5 374.2 4.5 378.7
The segment assets at 31 March 2009 have been restated to reflect Spendvision as a separate operating segment.
Reportable segments’ assets are reconciled to total assets as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Total segment assets 386.7 378.7
Cash and cash equivalent assets 58.8 68.5
Current tax assets 1.0 1.5
Deferred tax assets 48.8 33.8
495.3 482.5
HRG Annual Report 2010 47
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 3 Segment information continued
Capital expenditure by geographical location:
Corporate Travel Management
North Asia
Europe America Pacific Total Spendvision Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Capital expenditure
31 March 2010 4.6 4.5 0.1 9.2 2.0 11.2
31 March 2009 (restated) 5.6 2.9 0.4 8.9 0.9 9.8
Capital expenditure by operating segment for the year ended 31 March 2009 has been restated to reflect Spendvision as a separate
operating segment.
4 Operating expenses
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Underlying operating expenses
Staff costs (note 5) 193.6 208.6
Amortisation of other intangible assets 4.2 3.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.1 4.6
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1.7 1.7
Operating lease rentals – buildings 14.7 14.6
Operating lease rentals – other assets 1.8 1.9
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Currency translation differences 0.2 (0.2)
Other expenses 70.2 82.3
291.6 316.7
Amortisation of acquired intangibles:
Amortisation of client relationships 3.6 3.4
Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 0.3 0.3
3.9 3.7
Exceptional items:
Restructuring costs:
– Staff costs (note 5) 2.6 6.6
– Other expenses 0.7 0.3
Release of unutilised accruals relating to acquisitions in prior years – (1.6)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (note 7) – 0.3
3.3 5.6
Total operating expenses 298.8 326.0
Restructuring costs of £3.3m were incurred during the year (2009: £6.9m) and relate to planned cost reduction programmes in
Europe (2009: Europe and North America). They are in respect of redundancy costs and onerous lease provisions.
Certain unutilised accruals relating to acquisitions in prior years were released in the year ended 31 March 2009.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
48 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Operating expenses continued
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
The cost of services provided by the Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), and its associates is set out below:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Charged to operating expenses:
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and
Consolidated Financial Statements 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.3
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 1.6 1.7
Other services provided to comply with legislation 0.2 0.2
Services related to taxation 0.2 0.2
All other services 0.1 –
2.1 2.1
In addition to the above services, the Company’s auditor acted as auditor to the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme. The
appointment of auditors to the Group’s pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of that audit are agreed by the trustees of the
scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group. The aggregate fees paid to the Group’s auditor for audit
services to the pension scheme during the year were less than £0.1m (2009: less than £0.1m).
5 Staff costs
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Before 2010 Before 2009
exceptional Exceptional 2010 exceptional Exceptional 2009
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Salaries 163.4 – 163.4 175.0 – 175.0
Social security costs 19.0 – 19.0 21.4 – 21.4
Pension costs 8.4 – 8.4 9.9 – 9.9
Redundancy and termination costs 1.7 2.6 4.3 1.1 6.6 7.7
Share-based incentives 1.1 – 1.1 1.2 – 1.2
193.6 2.6 196.2 208.6 6.6 215.2
Pension costs comprise:
Defined benefit schemes (note 21) 2.3 – 2.3 3.4 – 3.4
Defined contribution schemes 6.1 – 6.1 6.5 – 6.5
8.4 – 8.4 9.9 – 9.9
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
number number
Average monthly number of staff employed by the Group including Key Management 5,319 6,236
HRG Annual Report 2010 49
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 6 Finance income and finance costs
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Finance income – bank interest 0.2 1.3
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (3.4) (9.6)
Amortisation of issue costs on bank loans (0.6) (0.4)
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (3.2) (1.2)
Other finance charges – (0.1)
Finance costs (7.2) (11.3)
Net finance costs (7.0) (10.0)
7 Income tax expense
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Current tax:
Tax on profits of the financial year 6.1 3.8
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.9) (0.9)
Total current tax 5.2 2.9
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.7 2.2
Adjustments in respect of previous years – 1.4
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets – (0.2)
Total deferred tax (note 20) 1.7 3.4
Taxation charge 6.9 6.3
The tax charge is split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
United Kingdom 3.6 4.7
Overseas 3.3 1.8
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets – (0.2)
Taxation charge 6.9 6.3
Years ended 31 March
2009
2010 restated
£m £m
On recurring business 8.4 8.8
Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.2) (1.1)
Exceptional items (0.3) (1.4)
Taxation charge 6.9 6.3
The analysis for the year ended 31 March 2009 has been restated to disclose the tax effect of amortisation of acquired intangibles.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
50 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Income tax expense continued
The tax assessed for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (28%) (2009: 28%) as explained below:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit before tax:
Continuing operations 21.2 15.4
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%) 5.9 4.3
Effects of:
Non-recognition of deferred tax assets – losses 0.5 1.4
Non-deductible goodwill amortisation – 0.1
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.8 0.5
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets – (0.2)
Overseas tax rate differential 0.2 (0.5)
Non-taxable income – (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.9) 0.5
Other 0.4 0.3
Taxation charge 6.9 6.3
Non-recognition of deferred tax assets – losses
The ability to recognise a deferred tax asset on historical North American losses has been reassessed during 2010. As a result an asset has
been booked to the extent of a £1.6m deferred tax liability held in respect of North American client relationships.
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets
The Group has acquired businesses in Germany with tax losses and other deferred tax assets. These were recognised in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on acquisition to the extent that they were expected to be realised based on information at the acquisition date.
IFRS3, Business Combinations, previously required deferred tax assets of the acquired business not recognised at the date of business
combination, but which subsequently met the recognition criteria in IAS 12, Income Taxes, to be adjusted against goodwill. IFRS3
(revised) only permits adjustments to goodwill within the one-year window for completion of the acquisition accounting. The Group
has early adopted IFRS3 (revised) in the year ended 31 March 2010 and no charge to goodwill in respect of the recognition of
incremental deferred tax assets arises in the year.
In the year ended 31 March 2009 a charge was reported in operating expenses (as shown in note 4). This charge was greater than the
charge to deferred tax because the charge to operating expenses must be made at the tax rate prevailing at the time the goodwill
was originally recognised (approximately 40%), whereas the deferred tax asset must be recognised at the rate prevailing at the
balance sheet date (approximately 30%).
The Group makes maximum use of all brought forward losses and other available reliefs in mitigating current tax payable.
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
Ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those purchased by the Company’s Employee Benefits Trust.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all
dilutive potential Ordinary shares.
The following amounts have been used in the calculation of earnings per share: Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Earnings for the purposes of earnings per share:
Profit for the financial year 14.3 9.1
Less: amount attributable to minority interest (0.9) (1.7)
Total 13.4 7.4
HRG Annual Report 2010 51
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 8 Earnings per share continued
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
number number
m m
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue
Issued (for basic EPS) 301.5 304.2
Dilutive potential Ordinary shares 9.9 4.5
For diluted EPS 311.4 308.7
The weighted average number of issued Ordinary shares is lower in the year ended 31 March 2010 compared to the year ended
31 March 2009 due to the impact of the shares purchased by the Employee Benefits Trust.
The Employee Benefits Trust waived its rights to dividends in respect of 4,000,000 shares purchased in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is calculated on the profit attributable to equity shareholders before amortisation of acquired
intangibles and exceptional items after charging taxation associated with those profits of £19.1m (2009: £14.2m).
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit before tax 21.2 15.4
Add: amortisation of acquired intangibles 3.9 3.7
Add: exceptional items 3.3 5.6
Underlying profit before tax 28.4 24.7
Underlying income tax expense (8.4) (8.8)
Underlying profit for the financial year 20.0 15.9
Less: amounts attributable to minority interests (0.9) (1.7)
Total 19.1 14.2
9 Dividends per share
The dividends to the Company’s shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2010 were:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2009
0.0p per share (31 March 2008 2.8p per share) – 8.6
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2010
0.4p per share (31 March 2009 1.2p per share) 1.2 3.7
Total dividends to the Company’s shareholders (note 23) 1.2 12.3
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 of 0.8p per Ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of £2,430,103,
is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2010. The Employee Benefits Trust has waived its rights to dividends in
respect of 4,000,000 shares purchased in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Scrip dividends to the value of £0.1m in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 and to the value of £0.2m
in respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead of a cash payment.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
52 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Goodwill 221.8 225.6
Other intangible assets 31.7 32.4
253.5 258.0
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets
Computer software
Externally Internally Client
Goodwill acquired generated relationships Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2008 229.5 16.2 6.1 31.4 283.2
Additions – 0.8 3.3 – 4.1
Reclassification of assets –– 2.5 – 2.5
Disposals – (1.4) –– (1.4)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of tax assets (0.3) ––– (0.3)
Adjustments to deferred consideration (0.2) ––– (0.2)
Exchange differences 23.0 1.3 0.2 6.7 31.2
At 31 March 2009 252.0 16.9 12.1 38.1 319.1
Additions – 1.6 5.1 – 6.7
Disposals – (2.9) –– (2.9)
Adjustments to deferred consideration (0.2) ––– (0.2)
Exchange differences (3.6) 0.6 0.7 (0.7) (3.0)
At 31 March 2010 248.2 16.2 17.9 37.4 319.7
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2008 26.4 10.5 3.0 11.9 51.8
Amortisation charge for the year – 1.9 1.5 3.4 6.8
Disposals – (1.4) –– (1.4)
Exchange differences – 1.0 – 2.9 3.9
At 31 March 2009 26.4 12.0 4.5 18.2 61.1
Amortisation charge for the year – 1.9 2.6 3.6 8.1
Disposals – (2.9) –– (2.9)
Exchange differences – 0.2 (0.1) (0.2) (0.1)
At 31 March 2010 26.4 11.2 7.0 21.6 66.2
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2008 203.1 5.7 3.1 19.5 231.4
At 31 March 2009 225.6 4.9 7.6 19.9 258.0
At 31 March 2010 221.8 5.0 10.9 15.8 253.5
The recoverable amount used in the assessment of goodwill for all cash generating units comprises value in use. During the year the
Group reviewed its discount rate and long term growth rates and these have been applied in the assessment. The value in use has
been calculated by discounting at 8% per annum (2009: 10% per annum) the anticipated post-tax cash flows. This equates to an
estimated pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% per annum. The forecasts are prepared from management information taking into account
historical trading performance and anticipated changes in future market conditions. The detailed forecasts cover a period of three years
from the balance sheet date; cash flows are projected beyond that period based on anticipated long-term growth of 2% (2009: 2%).
The amortisation charge for the year of £8.1m (2009: £6.8m) is comprised of £3.9m (2009: £3.7m) in respect of intangible assets
acquired via business combinations and £4.2m (2009: £3.1m) which relates to amortisation of software purchased and internally
generated by existing businesses.
HRG Annual Report 2010 53
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill consists of the following amounts related to cash generating units of the Group:
Years ended 31 March
2009
2010 restated
£m £m
Corporate Travel Management
UK 56.9 56.9
Sweden 14.6 14.6
Norway 17.9 17.9
Germany 45.7 47.4
Switzerland 20.0 19.6
North America 45.6 48.1
Other 17.6 17.6
218.3 222.1
Spendvision 3.5 3.5
221.8 225.6
The analysis of goodwill at 31 March 2009 has been restated to reflect Spendvision as a separate operating segment.
11 Property, plant and equipment
Plant and 
Property equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2008 9.3 38.9 48.2
Additions for the year 0.5 5.2 5.7
Disposals for the year (0.2) (3.1) (3.3)
Exchange differences 1.0 5.4 6.4
At 31 March 2009 10.6 46.4 57.0
Additions for the year 0.2 4.3 4.5
Disposals for the year (0.6) (2.2) (2.8)
Exchange differences 0.3 1.3 1.6
At 31 March 2010 10.5 49.8 60.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2008 5.2 30.4 35.6
Depreciation charge for the year 0.9 3.7 4.6
Disposals for the year (0.1) (2.8) (2.9)
Exchange differences 0.6 4.0 4.6
At 31 March 2009 6.6 35.3 41.9
Depreciation charge for the year 0.9 4.2 5.1
Disposals for the year (0.6) (1.9) (2.5)
Exchange differences 0.3 0.7 1.0
At 31 March 2010 7.2 38.3 45.5
Carrying amount
At 1 April 2008 4.1 8.5 12.6
At 31 March 2009 4.0 11.1 15.1
At 31 March 2010 3.3 11.5 14.8
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
54 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property is comprised of leasehold properties and leasehold improvements. Plant and equipment is comprised of IT and office equipment.
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Contractual commitments for the acquisition of:
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.5
Carrying amount of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 0.3 0.5
12 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of year 2.8 2.8
Acquisitions 0.3 –
Disposal proceeds – (0.4)
Net share of profit for the year after tax and minority interests 0.2 0.1
Dividends (0.5) (0.3)
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.6
At end of year 2.7 2.8
Disposal proceeds in the year ended 31 March 2009 related to capital reimbursement from Organising Committee Accommodation
Bureau GmbH & Co., which is no longer trading and is in the process of being liquidated.
The principal joint ventures and associates are:
Country of
Proportion held
incorporation 2010 2009
Associates
Liga Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
BEST Borussia Euro Lloyd Sports Travel GmbH Germany 49% 49%
WELT Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH Germany 49% 49%
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Ltd Hong Kong 51% 51%
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Ltd China 51% 51%
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co. Germany 33% 33%
Business Travel International BV Netherlands 50% 50%
DeskTop K.K. Japan 45% –
Aggregate amounts relating to the Group’s share of associates:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Total assets 1.6 2.3
Total liabilities (1.0) (1.6)
Revenue 2.0 2.1
Profit after tax 0.5 0.2
HRG Annual Report 2010 55
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
56 HRG Annual Report 2010
12 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued
Aggregate amounts relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Current assets 6.6 5.4
Non-current assets 0.9 1.0
Current liabilities (5.5) (4.0)
Long term liabilities (0.1) –
Revenue 2.6 2.7
Loss after tax (0.3) (0.1)
13 Financial instruments by category
Assets at fair 
Loans and value through 
receivables profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2010
Derivative financial instruments – 0.2 0.2
Trade receivables 72.2 – 72.2
Due from associates and joint ventures 1.0 – 1.0
Other receivables 16.2 – 16.2
Cash and cash equivalent assets 58.8 – 58.8
148.2 0.2 148.4
Liabilities Liabilities at fair 
measured at value through 
amortised cost profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2010
Borrowings 135.5 – 135.5
Trade payables 142.9 – 142.9
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.4 – 0.4
Other payables 37.8 – 37.8
316.6 – 316.6
Assets at fair 
Loans and value through 
receivables profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2009
Trade receivables 64.9 – 64.9
Due from associates and joint ventures 0.6 – 0.6
Other receivables 14.0 – 14.0
Cash and cash equivalent assets 68.5 – 68.5
148.0 – 148.0
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Financial instruments by category continued
Liabilities Liabilities at fair 
measured at value through 
amortised cost profit or loss Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2009
Derivative financial instruments – 0.6 0.6
Borrowings 152.4 – 152.4
Trade payables 122.0 – 122.0
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.6 – 0.6
Other payables 33.2 – 33.2
308.2 0.6 308.8
At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 no assets were subject to collateral except for finance lease assets.
14 Trade and other receivables
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade receivables, gross 73.8 67.0
Less: provision for impairment (1.6) (2.1)
72.2 64.9
Due from associates and joint ventures 1.0 0.6
Other receivables 16.2 14.0
Prepayments and accrued income 26.1 23.3
115.5 102.8
Current: due within one year 115.4 102.6
Non-current: due after more than one year 0.1 0.2
115.5 102.8
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
All non-current receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Trade receivables that are less than three months old but past due are generally not considered impaired. As of 31 March 2010, trade
receivables of £11.5m (2009: £5.3m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent customers for whom
there is no recent history of default. The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Up to 3 months 7.1 4.2
Over 3 months 4.4 1.1
11.5 5.3
HRG Annual Report 2010 57
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 14 Trade and other receivables continued
As of 31 March 2010, trade receivables of £1.8m (2009: £2.1m) were impaired and provided for. The amount of the provision was
£1.6m as at 31 March 2010 (2009: £2.1m). At 31 March 2010 it was assessed that a portion of the impaired receivables would be
recovered. The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Up to 3 months 0.1 –
Over 3 months 1.7 2.1
1.8 2.1
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Sterling 34.4 35.4
Euro 34.4 30.3
Swiss Franc 6.8 5.8
US Dollar 6.0 5.5
Canadian Dollar 10.0 6.7
Australian Dollar 5.0 4.4
Other currencies 18.9 14.7
115.5 102.8
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 April (2.1) (1.0)
New impairment provisions in the year (0.2) (1.0)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible – (0.1)
Unused amounts reversed 0.6 0.1
Exchange and other movements 0.1 (0.1)
At 31 March (1.6) (2.1)
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables has been included in other expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement (note 4). Amounts provided are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other items within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
58 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Financial assets and liabilities – derivative financial instruments
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At fair value
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 –
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts – (0.6)
Forward foreign exchange contracts consist of currency swaps together with cover obtained for known major payments and receipts
in foreign currencies. The effect of currency swaps on the exchange profile of borrowings is set out in note 17.
16 Cash and cash equivalent assets
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash balances without restrictions:
Short term deposits 57.4 67.3
Cash in hand 1.0 0.9
Cash balances with restrictions on use 0.4 0.3
58.8 68.5
The cash balances with restrictions are held to meet specific liabilities.
Cash comprises balances held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value. The cash balances above attract interest at various rates across
different territories.
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Sterling 15.9 17.4
Euro 14.1 22.8
Swiss Franc 5.3 2.7
Other European currencies 3.6 8.7
Canadian Dollar 13.0 11.1
US Dollar 3.6 3.1
Other currencies 3.3 2.7
58.8 68.5
HRG Annual Report 2010 59
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Current (due within one year)
Overdrafts 0.6 5.2
Bank loans 0.2 3.2
Unamortised loan issue costs (0.6) (0.6)
Finance leases 0.2 0.2
0.4 8.0
Non-current (due after more than one year)
Bank loans 135.2 144.9
Unamortised loan issue costs (0.2) (0.8)
Finance leases 0.1 0.3
135.1 144.4
135.5 152.4
Analysis of borrowings, all of which are unsecured:
Principal 136.3 153.8
Unamortised issue costs (0.8) (1.4)
135.5 152.4
The maturity of debt is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Within one year 0.4 8.0
Between one and two years 135.1 (0.3)
Between two and five years – 144.7
135.5 152.4
The fair value of borrowings approximates to their book values.
Analysis by currency
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Borrowings by currency:
Sterling 80.6 108.6
Euro – 3.7
Swiss Franc 16.3 –
Other European currencies 3.8 7.2
Canadian Dollar 34.4 29.3
US Dollar – –
Other currencies 0.4 3.6
135.5 152.4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
60 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Effect of currency swaps:
Sterling (16.9) (26.4)
Euro 2.5 4.0
Swiss Franc – 17.6
Other European currencies 4.6 0.3
Canadian Dollar – –
US Dollar 3.2 2.3
Other currencies 6.6 2.2
– –
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Borrowings by currency after currency swaps:
Sterling 63.7 82.2
Euro 2.5 7.7
Swiss Franc 16.3 17.6
Other European currencies 8.4 7.5
Canadian Dollar 34.4 29.3
US Dollar 3.2 2.3
Other currencies 7.0 5.8
135.5 152.4
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Undrawn facilities expiring over one year from the balance sheet date 67.0 57.5
Interest rate exposure
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Floating rate 135.2 151.9
Fixed rate 0.3 0.5
135.5 152.4
The majority of sterling floating rate overdrafts utilised had an interest rate of 1.00% above the lending bank’s base rate and the
majority of bank loans had an interest rate of 1.00% above LIBOR during the year ended 31 March 2010.
Floating rate debt includes drawdowns for fixed periods of up to three months.
HRG Annual Report 2010 61
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 17 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Finance leases
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 0.2 0.3
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.1 0.3
0.3 0.6
Less: future finance charges – (0.1)
Present value of lease obligations 0.3 0.5
Amount due for settlement within twelve months 0.2 0.2
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 0.1 0.3
0.3 0.5
Net debt
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Total financial liabilities – borrowings 135.5 152.4
Add back: Unamortised loan issue costs 0.8 1.4
Cash and cash equivalent assets (58.8) (68.5)
Net debt 77.5 85.3
Analysis by currency after currency swaps
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Sterling 48.6 66.2
Euro (11.6) (15.1)
Swiss Franc 11.0 14.9
Other European currencies 4.8 (1.2)
Canadian Dollar 21.4 18.2
US Dollar (0.4) (0.8)
Other currencies 3.7 3.1
77.5 85.3
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
62 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 Trade and other payables
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade payables 142.9 122.0
Due to associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.6
Social security and payroll taxes 3.3 6.9
Other payables 37.8 33.2
Accruals and deferred income 32.3 33.8
216.7 196.5
19 Provisions
Reorganisation Other Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2008 1.2 3.3 4.5
Additional provisions made in the year 7.1 0.5 7.6
Amounts used during the year (2.9) (0.3) (3.2)
Unused provisions reversed (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Exchange differences 0.4 0.2 0.6
At 31 March 2009 5.7 3.4 9.1
Additional provisions made in the year 4.7 0.6 5.3
Amounts used during the year (8.3) (0.1) (8.4)
Unused provisions reversed (0.5) (0.4) (0.9)
Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 March 2010 1.5 3.5 5.0
Reorganisation provisions represent redundancy and office closure costs in a number of Group companies and are disclosed as
current liabilities because they are likely to give rise to payment within one year of the balance sheet date.
Other includes provisions for onerous contracts, property dilapidations and litigation, which are likely to give rise to payment after
more than one year of the balance sheet date.
A provision for onerous contracts has been recognised for contracts where the expected benefits derived by the Group are lower
than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
Provision has been made for the present value of property lease commitments in respect of properties surplus to operational
requirements. Allowance has been made for anticipated sublet rental income, and costs to restore premises to their original
condition upon vacating them where such an obligation exists under the lease.
HRG Annual Report 2010 63
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 20 Deferred tax
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred tax assets
Temporary differences on pension accounting 33.1 15.6
Accelerated tax depreciation 4.3 4.1
Tax losses 9.7 9.4
Other temporary differences 8.0 8.4
Set-off against liabilities (6.3) (3.7)
48.8 33.8
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation (0.2) (0.4)
Other temporary differences (7.7) (4.9)
Set-off against assets 6.3 3.7
(1.6) (1.6)
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Net charge to the Consolidated Income Statement
Accelerated tax depreciation (0.5) (0.8)
Tax losses 0.3 (0.6)
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets – (0.2)
Other temporary differences 1.9 5.0
1.7 3.4
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the generation of future taxable profits in the
relevant geographical territory:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Tax losses 23.3 19.5
Depreciation in advance of accelerated tax depreciation 0.2 0.8
Temporary difference on pension accounting 1.5 1.3
Other temporary differences 13.1 15.7
38.1 37.3
At 31 March 2010, deferred tax assets include £42.0m (2009: £27.4m) arising in the UK. These assets are recognised on the basis that
there will be sufficient appropriate taxable profits available in the future against which to realise them.
Of the total tax losses at 31 March 2010, £0.4m is scheduled to expire by 31 March 2020.
No deferred tax is recognised on the undistributed profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as they are reinvested by the
Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Since acquisition, subsidiaries have made profits of
£44.0m (2009: £41.4m) that have not been remitted to the Company.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
64 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit pension arrangements
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension arrangement is the Hogg Robinson (1987) Pension Scheme (the UK Scheme). The UK
Scheme was available to most UK employees until it was closed to new members in March 2003. Its benefits are based on final
pensionable salary. The increase in final pensionable salary since 31 March 2003 is limited to the lower of the increase in the Retail
Prices Index and 5% per annum. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 6 April 2008 by an independent
qualified actuary.
The Group also operates defined benefit schemes in Norway, Switzerland, Germany and Italy.
The following amounts have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Current service charge 2.8 3.4
Curtailment gain (0.5) –
Charge to operating profit 2.3 3.4
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 16.3 16.1
Expected return on pension scheme assets (13.1) (14.9)
Charge to finance costs 3.2 1.2
Total charge to Consolidated Income Statement 5.5 4.6
The following amounts have been recognised as movements in equity:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Actual return on scheme assets 34.2 (31.4)
Less: expected return on scheme assets (13.1) (14.9)
21.1 (46.3)
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 1.9 2.5
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (89.2) 21.9
Exchange rate movement 0.2 (1.5)
Movement in the year (66.0) (23.4)
Cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since
the transition date to IFRS, 1 April 2003 (68.0) (2.0)
HRG Annual Report 2010 65
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
66 HRG Annual Report 2010
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The key assumptions used for the UK Scheme were:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009 2008
Rate of increase in salary 4.80% 4.00% 4.60%
Rate of increase in final pensionable salary 3.50% 2.70% 3.30%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued before 1999 5.00% 5.00% 5.00%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – accrued after 1999 3.50% 2.70% 3.30%
Discount rate 5.50% 6.70% 6.30%
Inflation 3.50% 2.70% 3.30%
Expected rate of return on plan assets:
Equity instruments 8.00% 7.20% 8.00%
Debt instruments 4.50% 6.70% 5.30%
Property 8.00% 7.20% 8.00%
Other assets 4.40% 5.00% 5.40%
The assumptions for the schemes in Norway, Switzerland, Germany and Italy do not produce materially different results from the
assumptions used for the UK Scheme.
The expected rates of return have been set taking into account current market returns for each category of asset at the balance sheet dates.
The mortality assumptions for the UK Scheme are based on PMA/FA92 tables with ‘medium cohort’ projections and a 1% underpin in
the rate of future improvements in mortality. Life expectancy at the age of 65 is assumed to be:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Current Pensioners
Male 22.7 22.6
Female 26.0 25.9
Future retirements
Male 24.7 24.1
Female 28.1 27.5
The UK liability is based on the assumption that active and deferred members will take 25% of the value of their pension as a lump
sum on retirement.
The provision included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations
Unfunded scheme 9.6 8.9
Wholly or partly funded schemes 350.7 254.1
360.3 263.0
Fair value of scheme assets (233.9) (197.7)
126.4 65.3
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The net present value of defined benefit obligations has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of year 263.0 269.4
Current service cost 2.8 3.4
Curtailment gain (2.3) –
Interest cost 16.3 16.1
Contributions by plan participants 1.4 1.6
Actuarial losses/(gains) 87.3 (24.4)
Foreign currency exchange changes 0.3 6.8
Benefits paid (8.5) (9.9)
At end of year 360.3 263.0
The fair value of scheme assets has moved as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of year 197.7 221.3
Curtailment loss (1.8) –
Expected returns on plan assets 13.1 14.9
Actuarial gains/(losses) 21.1 (46.3)
Foreign currency exchange changes 0.5 5.3
Contributions by the employer 10.4 10.8
Contributions by plan participants 1.4 1.6
Benefits paid (8.5) (9.9)
At end of year 233.9 197.7
The assets held in defined benefit schemes were as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Equity instruments 123.7 110.5
Debt instruments 64.1 62.7
Property 33.2 12.5
Other assets 12.9 12.0
233.9 197.7
None of the plan assets are represented by financial instruments of the Group. None of the plan assets are occupied or used by the Group.
The schedule of contributions for the UK Scheme has been agreed with the Trustees at 15.2% of pensionable salaries plus £6.6m per
annum with effect from April 2008. This is expected to amount to £8.7m for the year ending 31 March 2011.
HRG Annual Report 2010 67
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The obligations and assets are split as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligations (319.3) (41.0) (360.3) (223.0) (40.0) (263.0)
Fair value of plan assets 203.4 30.5 233.9 171.7 26.0 197.7
Deficit (115.9) (10.5) (126.4) (51.3) (14.0) (65.3)
Five year experience
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligations (360.3) (263.0) (269.4) (274.8) (310.2)
Fair value of plan assets 233.9 197.7 221.3 214.9 185.7
Deficit (126.4) (65.3) (48.1) (59.9) (124.5)
Experience gains/(losses)
on plan liabilities 1.9 2.5 (2.3) (3.6) (1.8)
on plan assets 21.1 (46.3) (18.3) 4.0 22.4
Pension funding in excess of the charge to operating profit is shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as follows:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Contributions less service cost (note 29) (7.6) (7.2)
22 Share capital and share premium account
Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
Issued, called up and fully paid
At 1 April 307,762,884 306,833,065
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends – 929,819
At 31 March 307,762,884 307,762,884
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
68 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Share capital and share premium account continued
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Issued, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each 3.1 3.1
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends – –
The HRG Employee Benefits Trust acquired 4,000,000 of the Company’s Ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock
Exchange on 10 June 2009. The total amount paid to acquire the shares in the year ended 31 March 2010 was £1.1m and has been
deducted from retained earnings. The total number of Ordinary shares in the Company held by the Employee Benefits Trust as at
31 March 2010 was 7,035,546 (2009: 3,035,546) with a market value of £2.2m (2009: £0.5m).
Share premium account
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 April 172.2 171.9
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend – 0.3
At 31 March 172.2 172.2
23 Reserves
Retained earnings
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 April (155.2) (132.8)
Retained profit for the financial year 14.3 9.1
Dividends (note 9) (1.2) (12.3)
Minority interest (0.9) (1.7)
Shares purchased by Employee Benefits Trust (note 22) (1.1) –
Actuarial loss (66.0) (23.4)
Deferred tax movement on pension liability 18.7 5.9
At 31 March (191.4) (155.2)
Other reserves Share-based Exchange Other
incentives reserve reserves
£m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2008 0.9 4.4 5.3
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – 17.6 17.6
Transactions with owners:
Share-based incentives 1.2 – 1.2
Balance at 1 April 2009 2.1 22.0 24.1
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences – (11.8) (11.8)
Transactions with owners:
Share-based incentives 1.1 – 1.1
Balance at 31 March 2010 3.2 10.2 13.4
HRG Annual Report 2010 69
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 24 Minority interests
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 April 3.5 2.5
Exchange differences – 0.1
Dividends paid (1.0) (0.8)
Share of profit after tax 0.9 1.7
At 31 March 3.4 3.5
Minority interests relate to the following companies, all of which are companies registered in Germany except for Spendvision
Holdings Limited, which is registered in England and Wales:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2010 2009 2009
Group interest Minority interest Group interest Minority interest
%% %%
Reiseburo A.L.R. Atlantik-Luft-Reederei GmbH, Bonn 100% 0% 90% 10%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo GmbH & Co. KG, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd DFB Reiseburo GmbH, Ffm 51% 49% 51% 49%
Euro Lloyd Breuninger Reiseburo Btlg. GmbH, Stgt 51% 49% 51% 49%
FC Bayern Tours GmbH, Munchen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Bay Sports -Travel GmbH, Leverkusen 50% 50% 50% 50%
Spendvision Holdings Limited 58% 42% 58% 42%
The Group interest in Reiseburo A.L.R. Atlantik-Luft-Reederei GmbH, Bonn increased as at 31 March 2010 following a further investment.
25 Acquisitions
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash paid for acquisition of subsidiaries:
Executive Travel Associates – (0.3)
Cash paid for acquisition of associates and joint ventures:
DeskTop K.K (0.3) –
(0.3) (0.3)
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Goodwill arising on acquisitions:
Executive Travel Associates (note 10) (0.2) (0.2)
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being
separately identified and recognised.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
70 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
In 1994 Compagnie Dens Ocean NV (CDO), an indirectly owned subsidiary, received a claim from the Belgian Customs authorities
resulting in a liquidator being appointed in 1995. Civil litigation is in process with criminal proceedings being considered pending the
final outcome of the civil action. The liquidator is defending the civil action vigorously and has received strong legal advice on the
strength of CDO’s case. The Directors continue to believe, on the basis of such advice, that any future impact on the net assets of the
Group would not exceed the existing provision.
27 Operating leases
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments:
Due within one year 15.8 15.9
From second to fifth year inclusive 36.6 37.5
After five years 15.4 15.6
Total commitment 67.8 69.0
Operating lease commitments mainly represent arrangements for the occupation of office properties. Property leases are arranged
taking into account local market conditions to secure the use of offices with economical rentals. At 31 March 2010, on average,
property leases had 3.7 years to run (2009: 3.7 years).
28 Related party transactions
Remuneration of Key Management
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Short term employee benefits 3.5 2.7
Post-employment benefits – 0.1
Termination benefits – 0.2
Share-based incentives 0.7 0.7
4.2 3.7
The Key Management of the Group are the Directors of Hogg Robinson Group plc and members of the Executive Management
Team. Disclosure of the Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 27 of the Annual Report.
Receivables from associates and joint ventures
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.1 –
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 0.8 0.6
DeskTop K.K. 0.1 –
1.0 0.6
HRG Annual Report 2010 71
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 28 Related party transactions continued
Payables to associates and joint ventures
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Associates
Bavaria Lloyd Reiseburo GmbH 0.1 0.2
Liga Travel GmbH 0.2 0.2
0.3 0.4
Joint ventures
Organising Committee Accommodation Bureau GmbH & Co 0.1 0.1
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited – 0.1
0.1 0.2
No interest was charged on amounts receivable from or payable to joint ventures and associates.
Transactions with associates and joint ventures
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Recharges by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.1 –
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited – 0.1
0.1 0.1
Recharges to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.2 –
Hogg Robinson Jinjiang Travel (China) Limited 0.1 –
0.3 –
Management charges to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.2 –
Sales/provision of services by joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited – 0.1
Sales/provision of services to joint ventures
Hogg Robinson Westminster (Hong Kong) Limited 0.1 –
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
72 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 Related party transactions continued
Business Travel International BV
The Group has a 50% interest (2009: 50%) in the shares of Business Travel International BV (BTI BV) a travel service and management
organisation. The Group is currently the managing partner of BTI BV and until 31 March 2009 made charges for staff, premises and
management expertise. Following the launch of the HRG brand the activities of BTI BV are diminishing.
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Charge to BTI BV for staff, premises and management expertise – 0.2
Receivable from BTI BV – 0.2
Transactions with Key Management
Key Management occasionally use the services of Group companies for their personal travel needs. These transactions are not
material to either party and hence do not warrant further disclosure in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
29 Cash generated from operations
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 21.2 15.4
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation (note 10 and 11) 13.2 11.4
Net increase in provisions 4.4 7.2
Share of results of associates and joint ventures (0.2) (0.1)
Net finance costs (note 6) 7.0 10.0
Adjustments to goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets (note 4) – 0.3
Pension curtailment credit (0.5) –
Other timing differences 1.4 0.9
46.5 45.1
Cash expenditure charged to provisions (note 19) (8.4) (3.2)
Change in trade and other receivables (10.5) 27.3
Change in trade and other payables 16.2 3.2
Pension funding in excess of charge to operating profit (note 21) (7.6) (7.2)
Cash generated from operations 36.2 65.2
HRG Annual Report 2010 73
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 30 Share-based incentives
The Group operates equity-settled share-based incentive schemes as follows:
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Shares are awarded which vest for no consideration after a
three year period subject to performance conditions.
For Key Management, each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR)
and on basic earnings per share (EPS) respectively.
The extent to which the TSR portion of the scheme will vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance over a three year period
relative to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 350 Support Service Index. Full vesting will take place for a top 20%
ranking, 25% vesting for a median ranking and no award if TSR falls below the median.
The extent to which the EPS portion of any award will vest is subject to the underlying EPS of the Company increasing over a three
year period. For awards made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2009, full vesting will take place if the increase in
underlying EPS is at least 15% greater than the increase in RPI over the same period, 25% vesting if the increase over RPI is 5% greater
and no award if underlying EPS falls below this 5% increase over RPI. For awards made during the year ended 31 March 2010, full
vesting takes place in the event that the Company’s underlying EPS cumulatively equals or is greater than 20p over the performance
period, 25% if in the event that the Company’s underlying EPS cumulatively equals or is greater than 15p over the performance
period and no award if underlying EPS falls below this.
Awards to certain senior executives (other than Key Management) are not subject to TSR or EPS performance conditions. 25% of such
awards vest two years after the grant date, with the remaining 75% vesting one year later.
If performance conditions are met then shares will be issued up to six months after the vesting date. Participants who leave as a
result of a qualifying reason (generally, retirement or involuntary redundancy) will receive a pro-rata entitlement. The awards for other
participants who leave prior to vesting will lapse.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The CSOP is applicable to senior executives including Executive Directors. Share options are awarded which vest after a three year
period subject to performance conditions. The exercise price of the options is the market price of shares immediately prior to the
award. Each award has two discrete elements with performance conditions based on total shareholder return (TSR) and on earnings
per share (EPS) respectively. The performance conditions and arrangements for leavers are the same as for the PSP scheme. Options
can be exercised for a period of up to ten years after the date of the grant.
Sharesave schemes
Sharesave schemes have been established in most countries in which the Group has operations and are applicable to all employees.
Options are issued linked to savings contracts of up to £250 per month (or equivalent amounts overseas) for periods of three or five
years (two years in the USA) with a six month exercise period. Options are issued at a discount of up to 20% of the market price
immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply.
The Group’s charge for equity-settled share-based incentives for the year of £1.1m (2009: £1.2m) has been included in operating
expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
74 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 Share-based incentives continued
The following table illustrates the weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year:
PSP CSOP Sharesave
number of number number 
shares WAEP of options WAEP of options
Outstanding as at 1 April 2008 3,702,090 80p 7,833,914 82p 4,001,971
Granted during the year 4,420,767 44p 6,658,752 42p 3,705,875
Exercised ––– ––
Forfeited ––– 75p (3,395,196)
Outstanding as at 31 March 2009 8,122,857 64p 14,492,666 53p 4,312,650
Granted during the year 7,644,636 23p 12,602,269 ––
Exercised (69,770) ––– –
Forfeited (644,795) 88p (226,313) 52p (952,466)
Lapsed (1,358,865) 96p (3,621,156) ––
Outstanding as at 31 March 2010 13,694,063 36p 23,247,466 53p 3,360,184
Exercisable at 31 March 2009 ––– 72p 149,329
Exercisable at 31 March 2010 ––– ––
Granted subject to TSR conditions 3,079,228 6,427,821 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 4,908,036 8,064,845 –
Granted without performance conditions 135,593 – 4,312,650
At 31 March 2009 8,122,857 14,492,666 4,312,650
Granted subject to TSR conditions 4,800,881 11,190,349 –
Granted subject to EPS conditions 5,043,464 12,057,117 –
Granted without performance conditions 3,849,718 – 3,360,184
At 31 March 2010 13,694,063 23,247,466 3,360,184
The range of exercise prices of outstanding share options was nil to 82 pence with a weighted average contractual life of 5.9 years.
The fair value of options granted in the year is estimated as at the date of grant using the following valuation models:
Valuation model
Grants subject to TSR conditions Monte Carlo
Grants subject to EPS and service conditions and Sharesave schemes Black-Scholes
Key assumptions used in valuing share options were:
Weighted average share price at grant date (pence) 23
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 16
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 9
Expected life (years) 3.25 – 6.5
Vesting period (years) 2 –3
Expected and historic volatility (%) 79
Risk free rate of return (%) 1
Expected dividend yield (%) 5
In the year ended 31 March 2010, volatility was derived directly from the Group’s share price over the period from listing. In previous
years, the expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes for a comparator group of
similar companies.
HRG Annual Report 2010 75
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 31 Holding company and principal trading subsidiaries
Hogg Robinson Group plc is a public limited company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England & Wales. It is
the holding company for the Group and its registered office is:
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
United Kingdom
Registered Number: 3946303
Hogg Robinson Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The following were the principal subsidiaries of the Group as at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 and were wholly owned except
where indicated below.
Country of Class of
Name incorporation Shares
Intermediate holding companies
HRG Debtco Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Farnborough Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson plc England & Wales Ordinary
Spendvision Holdings Limited (58% held) England & Wales Ordinary
Business services providers
Executive Travel Associates LLC USA Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Canada Inc Canada Ordinary
Hogg Robinson France SA France Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Germany GmbH & Co KG Germany Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Hungary Limited Hungary Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Italia SpA Italy Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Holdings AS Norway Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic OY Finland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Nordic Services AB Sweden Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Polska Sp. z.o.o Poland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary
Hogg Robinson s.r.o Czech Republic Ordinary
Hogg Robinson Switzerland Limited Switzerland Ordinary
Hogg Robinson (Travel) Limited England & Wales Ordinary
Hogg Robinson USA LLC USA Ordinary
HRG Belgium NV Belgium Ordinary
ZAO BTI Russia Russia Ordinary
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
76 HRG Annual Report 2010
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 77
Financial statements...
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of
Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010
which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the
related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement the Directors are responsible for the preparation of
the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit
the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements:
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs
as at 31 March 2010;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial
year for which the Parent Company Financial Statements
are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company
Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,
in our opinion:
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by
law are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Hogg Robinson Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2010.
Richard Pollard (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
26 May 2010
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Hogg Robinson Group plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial
Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
78 HRG Annual Report 2010
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary companies 4 132.1 132.1
132.1 132.1
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiary companies:
– due after more than one year 5 140.1 141.0
– due within one year 6 28.0 24.4
168.1 165.4
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (8.6) –
Net current assets 159.5 165.4
Total assets less current liabilities 291.6 297.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Amounts due to subsidiary companies (0.1) (0.1)
(0.1) (0.1)
Net assets 291.5 297.4
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders
Share capital 8 3.1 3.1
Share premium 9 172.2 172.2
Other reserves 9 3.2 2.1
Retained earnings 9 113.0 120.0
Equity shareholders’ funds 10 291.5 297.4
The financial statements on pages 79 to 83 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
David Radcliffe, Director Julian Steadman, Director
Registered number: 3946303
PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2010
HRG Annual Report 2010 79
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
Basis of accounting
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006, and conform with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards. The Directors consider that the
accounting policies set out below are suitable, have been
consistently applied and are supported by reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less any
provision for impairment in value.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value net of
issue costs incurred. Subsequent measurement depends on the
designation of the instruments as follows:
Borrowings are held at amortised cost and are classified as
current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right
to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after
the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs are recognised as an
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value with
subsequent provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting
all of its liabilities. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to
deliver cash or another financial asset to a third party.
Taxation and deferred taxation
Any charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the
period and takes into account deferred taxation. Full provision is
made where required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation for deferred
taxation on all timing differences, which have arisen but have
not reversed at the balance sheet date. Deferred taxation assets
and liabilities are not discounted.
Dividend distributions
Interim dividends are recognised in the Parent Company
Financial Statements in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in
the Parent Company Financial Statements in the period in which
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
The amounts of dividends taken as shares instead of cash under
the scrip dividend scheme have been added back to reserves.
The nominal value of shares issued under the scheme has been
funded out of the share premium account.
Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in
equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The premium received on the issue of shares in excess of the
nominal value of shares is credited to the share premium
account and included within shareholders’ equity.
Share-based incentives
The Company operates several equity-settled share-based
incentive schemes for Group employees. The fair value of the
awards is calculated at grant date and is recognised as an
expense over the vesting period. For awards with vesting
conditions based on market conditions (particularly, those based
on total shareholder return compared with external benchmarks),
the likelihood of vesting is assessed at the date of grant and is not
subsequently amended in arriving at the expense for each year in
the vesting period. All other awards are re-assessed at each
balance sheet date, with the expense charged to the Profit and
Loss Account including the impact of changes of previous
estimates of the likelihood of vesting. The total expense for the
year gives rise to a corresponding credit to equity.
Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored
Employee Benefits Trust are included in the Financial Statements.
In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company
remain deducted from shareholders’ funds until they vest
unconditionally with employees.
Management judgement
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies,
management has made a number of judgements, none of which
are considered to have a significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the Parent Company Financial Statements.
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1, the Company’s
Cash Flow Statement has not been separately presented in these
Parent Company Financial Statements. The Company is also exempt
under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions
with entities that are part of Hogg Robinson Group plc or 90%
investees of Hogg Robinson Group plc. The Directors of Hogg
Robinson plc occasionally use the services of Group companies for
their personal travel needs. These transactions are not material to
either party and hence do not warrant further disclosure in these
Parent Company Financial Statements.
80 HRG Annual Report 2010
1 Accounting policies
2 Cash flow statement and related party disclosures
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 81
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
3 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for
the year. Hogg Robinson Group plc reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 March 2010 of £4.7m (2009: profit of £8.7m).
Audit fees and non-audit fees for the Company are borne by a subsidiary of this Company, Hogg Robinson plc.
4 Investments
Subsidiary
companies
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010 132.1
The Directors consider that the fair value of investments is not less than their carrying value.
5 Amounts due from subsidiary companies: due after more than one year
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 139.6 140.5
Amount due from other subsidiary companies 0.5 0.5
140.1 141.0
Amounts due from subsidiary companies after more than one year are unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR + 1.5%. There is
no fixed date of repayment.
6 Amounts due from subsidiary companies: due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Amount due from HRG Debtco Limited 26.7 22.9
Amount due from other subsidiary companies 1.3 1.5
28.0 24.4
Amounts due from HRG Debtco within one year are unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR + 1.5%.
Amounts due from other subsidiary companies within one year are unsecured and interest free. 7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Amount due to Hogg Robinson plc (8.5) –
Other payables (0.1) –
(8.6) –
Amounts due to Hogg Robinson plc within one year are unsecured and interest free.
8 Share capital
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
number number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 513,808,171 513,808,171
Issued, called up and fully paid
At 1 April 307,762,884 306,833,065
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends – 929,819
At 31 March 307,762,884 307,762,884
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Issued, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each 3.1 3.1
The HRG Employee Benefits Trust acquired 4,000,000 of the Company’s Ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock
Exchange on 10 June 2009. The total amount paid to acquire the shares in the year ended 31 March 2009 was £1.1m and has been
deducted from retained earnings within shareholders’ equity (note 9). The total number of Ordinary shares in the Company held by
the Employee Benefits Trust as at 31 March 2010 was 7,035,546 (2009: 3,035,546) with a market value of £2.2m (2009: £0.5m).
9 Reserves
Share Share-based Profit
premium incentives and loss
account reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2008 171.9 0.9 125.2 298.0
Profit for the financial year –– 8.7 8.7
Dividends (note 11) –– (12.3) (12.3)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend 0.3 –– 0.3
Share-based incentives – 1.2 – 1.2
Employee Benefits Trust –– (1.6) (1.6)
At 1 April 2009 172.2 2.1 120.0 294.3
Loss for the financial year –– (4.7) (4.7)
Dividends (note 11) –– (1.2) (1.2)
Share-based incentives – 1.1 – 1.1
Employee Benefits Trust –– (1.1) (1.1)
At 31 March 2010 172.2 3.2 113.0 288.4
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 – CONTINUED
82 HRG Annual Report 2010
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HRG Annual Report 2010 83
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
10 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (4.7) 8.7
Dividends (1.2) (12.3)
Scrip dividend issued in lieu of cash dividend – 0.3
Share-based incentives 1.1 1.2
Employee Benefits Trust (note 8, 9) (1.1) (1.6)
Net decrease to shareholders’ funds (5.9) (3.7)
Opening shareholders’ funds 297.4 301.1
Closing shareholders’ funds 291.5 297.4
11 Dividends per share
The dividends to the Company’s shareholders in the year ended 31 March 2010 were:
Years ended 31 March
2010 2009
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2009
0.0p per share (31 March 2008 2.8p per share) – 8.6
Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 March 2010
0.4p per share (31 March 2009 1.2p per share) 1.2 3.7
Total dividends to the Company’s shareholders (note 9) 1.2 12.3
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 of 0.8p per Ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of £2,430,103,
is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2010. The Employee Benefits Trust has waived its rights to dividends in
respect of 4,000,000 shares purchased in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Scrip dividends to the value of £0.1m in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 and to the value of £0.2m
in respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 were taken instead of a cash payment.
12 Employees
The Company has no employees.
Disclosure of the Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 27 of the Annual Report. COMPANY INFORMATION
84 HRG Annual Report 2010
Directors
J D Coombe
Chairman
(also, Chairman of the Nominations Committee and
member of the Remuneration Committee)
D J C Radcliffe
Chief Executive
J A Steadman
Group Finance Director
A E Isaac
Non-Executive Director
(also, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the
Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and
Remuneration Committees)
G W Battersby
Non-Executive Director
(also, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees)
Company Secretary
K J Burgess
Registered office
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire RG21 3BT
Registered number: 3946303
Telephone: 01256 312 600
Fax: 01256 346 999
Website: www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Legal Advisers
Macfarlanes
20 Cursitor Street
London EC4A 1LT
Financial Advisers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Company Brokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Collins Stewart Europe limited
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA What we do
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP (HRG)
Where we operate Our clients
Our competitive advantage
We are an international
corporate travel services
company employing more
than 5,000 people
worldwide. We use our
global reach, local
expertise and business
travel experience to deliver
first-class products and
services to our clients
across the globe.
Headquartered in the UK, HRG serves its
clients through owned or controlled
operations in 25 key markets throughout
Europe, North America and Asia Pacific which
are supported by a strong network of
contracted partners. The HRG global network
extends to nearly 120 countries.
One of our key strengths is the breadth of our
client portfolio. We serve some of the largest
multinational corporations in the world as
well as many smaller national companies.
Our clients represent all major sectors including Banking &
Finance, Retail & Consumer, Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare,
Manufacturing and Consulting. We also have a strong presence
in the public sector.
We also work closely with travel suppliers such as airlines, rail
operators, hotels and car hire companies. For the most part these
relationships are governed by service level agreements that
include data provision, promotional support and distribution
methods. We are also working closely with the Global Distribution
Systems (GDS) providers to introduce common industry standards.
HRG owned entities
Partners
At the core of our offering is ‘Corporate Travel
Management’, through which we provide 
a comprehensive range of products and
services tailored to our clients’ specific needs. 
Whether our clients are focusing on cost savings, personal
service, online booking tools, consulting, data management and
analytics, events and meetings management, traveller tracking
or a totally outsourced travel management function, we offer
practical advice and innovative solutions to meet their
individual requirements. 
Client service is of paramount importance to us. Our goal is to
deliver a world-class service that meets the unique requirements
of each and every one of our clients and which exceeds their
expectations. By providing the very best standards of service
through the delivery of bespoke products and innovative
solutions, we are rewarded with high client loyalty that is the
envy of many of our peers.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Timetable
The Company’s major timetable dates are as follows:
Interim Management Statement July 2010
2010 Annual General Meeting 26 July 2010
Payment date for the FY10 final dividend 2 August 2010
Half-Yearly Report announcement for the six months to 30 September 2010 November 2010
Payment date for the FY11 interim dividend December 2010
Interim Management Statement February 2011
Preliminary announcement of FY11 results May 2011
FY11 Annual Report posted to shareholders June 2011
Registrars
The address of the Registrars is:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Website for online viewing about your holding:
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti Registrars’ telephone line for HRG shareholders:
0871 384 2030
Text phone for the hard of hearing:
0871 384 2255
Internet website
The Company’s website address is www.hoggrobinsongroup.com. Copies of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and other
information about the Company are available on this site.
Designed and produced by fourthquarter Printed by SV.TWO HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
Global House
Victoria Street
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG21 3BT
UK
www.hoggrobinsongroup.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk and 9 Lives Offset.
This paper is manufactured from woodpulp from sustainable forests and uses Elemental Chlorine Free (EFC) pulp, bleached using weaker
chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201 0
Delivering value
CONTENTS
Overview Directors’ report
Business review Governance
Financial statements
Hogg Robinson Group (HRG)
What we do
Where we operate
Our clients
Our competitive advantage
Measuring our progress
2 Highlights of the Y ear
3 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Strategy
7 Risk Management
9 Operational Review
Market overview
Client activity
Corporate Travel Management
Spendvision
Technology
Additional financial disclosures
Summary income, balance sheet and cash flow statement
18 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team
19 Corporate Governance
22 Remuneration Report
28 Other Statutory Information
32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
33 Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
77 Parent Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
Parent Company Balance Sheet
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
84 Company Information
Shareholder Information
