 Delivering through leadership
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2003 Contents
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief executive’s review
16 Operational review – Experian
19 Operational review – Argos Retail Group
24 Operational review – Burberry
25 Operational review – Other businesses
26 Financial review
30 Board of directors
32 Directors’ report
34 Corporate governance
40 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
41 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
51 Corporate social responsibility
53 Report of the auditors 
54 Group profit and loss account
55 Statement of total recognised gains and losses
55 Note of historical cost profits
55 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
56 Group balance sheet
57 Parent company balance sheet
58 Group cash flow statement
59 Notes to the financial statements
90 Five year summary
91 Principal subsidiary undertakings and joint venture
92 Shareholder information
GUS is delivering long-term shareholder
value by focusing on businesses with
above average growth potential and by
establishing leadership positions in our
chosen markets.
In December 2002, GUS
acquired Homebase, the UK’s
second largest brand in the 
do-it-yourself market. Experian operating profit
£ million
 201 
 00  01  02  03 
 217 
 224
 256 
ARG operating profit
£ million
 192 
 00  01  02  03 
 21 7 
 255 
 285 
Experian
A leading global business solutions company.
Experian helps organisations to target, acquire and
manage new customers and develop successful
customer relationships.
The company does this by leveraging its:
■ specialist strategic knowledge
■ skills in managing client processes
■ ability to develop analytical solutions
■ ownership of core data assets
Experian has become a strategic partner for more
than 40,000 clients across diverse industries,
including financial services, telecommunications,
healthcare, insurance, retailing, automotive,
manufacturing, leisure, utilities, property, e-commerce
and government.
The company employs 13,100 people, supporting
clients in more than 60 countries.  Experian’s
headquarters are in Costa Mesa, California and
Nottingham, UK. 
Argos Retail Group
The UK’s leading general merchandise retailing group.
Argos Retail Group (ARG) is focused on providing
customers with choice, value and convenience.
The company operates market-leading brands:
■ Argos for general merchandise
■ Homebase for DIY and home furnishings
■ Wehkamp, the leading home shopping catalogue 
in the Netherlands
■ A range of financial services, including the Argos
store card
The combination of stores, catalogues, websites 
and home delivery options enables customers to
choose the shopping experience that suits their
particular lifestyle.
ARG’s competitive advantages lie in its:
■ purchasing scale
■ multiple brands
■ multiple channels
The company employs 45,700 people in the UK 
and Holland.
Group overview
GUS is a retail and business services group. We provide
information and customer relationship management
services through Experian, general merchandise
retailing through Argos Retail Group and luxury goods
through a majority shareholding in Burberry Group plc.
We continue to reposition the Group around these
major businesses.
April 2002: acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com 
July 2002: partial flotation of Burberry 
December 2002: acquisition of Homebase
January 2003: acquisition of Nordic Info Group
March 2003: acquisition of outstanding stakes in Scorex
May 2003: disposal of Home Shopping and Reality
May 2003: planned partial flotation of South African
Retailing during calendar 2004 Burberry operating profit
£ million
 22 
 00  01  02  03 
 70 
 90 
 11 7 
Other businesses operating profit
£ million
 105 
 00  01  02  03 
 68 
 66 
 62 
Burberry
A leading international luxury goods business. 
Burberry designs and markets a comprehensive 
range of clothing and accessories, which appeal to 
style-conscious consumers around the world. 
Burberry products are sold through 132 
directly-operated stores, concessions and outlets, 
and through partnerships with key retailers in the
world’s leading economies.
The company employs 3,600 people around 
the world. 
Burberry’s principal strengths are its:
■ unique history and positioning
■ international recognition and broad appeal
■ diversified distribution channels
■ multiple product and geographic 
growth opportunities
Other businesses
Other GUS businesses include principally South
African Retailing, a leading retailer operating out of
stores throughout Southern Africa.
■ 398 Lewis stores offering a wide range of
domestic furniture and appliances
■ 45 Best Electric stores offering specialist electronic
goods and appliances
The company employs 6,000 people.
Profit by Division
Year ended March 2000
■ Experian
■ Argos Retail Group
■ Burberry
■ Other
 39% 
 4% 
 20% 
 37% 
Proforma profit by Division*
Year ended March 2003
■ Experian
■ Argos Retail Group
■ Burberry
■ Other
* Including a full year of 
   Homebase and excluding 
   Home Shopping and Reality
 33% 
 15% 
 44% 
 8%  Annual Report 2003 Financial highlights 1
Financial highlights
for the years ended 31 March 2003 2002 Change
Group sales £7.1bn £6.5bn up 11%
Underlying group profit before tax
1
£642m £552m up 16%
Adjusted earnings per share
1
47.8p 41.7p up 15%
Dividend per share 23.3p 21.7p up 7%
1
Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items
Group sales
£ million
 5,658 
 00  01  02  03 
 6,041 
 6,457 
 7,146  642 
Underlying profit before tax
£ million
 448 
 00  01  02  03 
 487 
 552 
 618
Free cash flow
£ million
 272 
 00  01  02  03 
 481  478 
 47 .8
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share
pence
 34.5 
 00  01  02  03 
 37       .2 
 41.7 
 23.3
Dividend per share
pence
 20.6 
 00  01  02  03 
 21.0 
 21.7 
GUS share price performance
■ GUS share price
■ FTSE General Retailers sector
■ FTSE 100
1April 2000 30 May 2003
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
-25%
-50%
-75%
800p
700p
600p
500p
400p
300p
200p
100p
■ Delivering growth in sales and profits 
across the Group
■ 16% increase in profit before amortisation of
goodwill, exceptional items and taxation to
£642m (2002: £552m)
■ Profit before tax increased to £409m 
(2002: £380m)
■ 15% increase in basic earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items to
47.8p (2002: 41.7p)
■ Basic earnings per share 25.1p (2002: 25.7p)
■ 7% increase in full year dividend to 23.3p 
(2002: 21.7p) 2 Annual Report 2003 Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement: GUS has had
another successful year, with profits 
up 16% to £642m. 
Our aim is to grow the value of these businesses for
the benefit of shareholders. GUS acts as strategic
architect in ensuring that each business has clear
plans, high quality management and a strong capital
resource. ARG, Experian and Burberry are each
pursuing exciting strategies, with considerable scope
for development over the next few years.
During the last year we have continued to reshape the
GUS portfolio around these major businesses. The
most notable changes have been the acquisition of
Homebase, a leading retailer in the growing DIY and
home furnishings market; the disposal of our Home
Shopping and Reality businesses; and the partial
flotation of Burberry. Experian has also strengthened
its position in the marketplace with a new global
management structure and the strategically important
acquisitions of Scorex, ConsumerInfo.com, Nordic Info
Group and 1 1 affiliate bureaux in the United States.
Our commitment to shareholders is to create long-
term value at all times and the Board continues to
review options in this regard. In floating Burberry, for
example, we recognised that it was the right time in
the growth and development of this business for part
of its ownership to be held more widely. Our decision
to arrange a partial IPO for our South African Retailing
business is another example of how we are realising
value for the benefit of shareholders. 
Board change
I believe that we have a strong Board at GUS, with an
excellent mix of skills and experience. Just as
important is our ability to work together as a team.
In March 2003, the Board was further strengthened by
the addition of Craig Smith, who had recently been
appointed Chairman of Experian worldwide. Craig
joined Experian in 2000 as CEO of Experian North
America, where he played a key role in successfully
repositioning the business. I am delighted to welcome
him to the Board. 
This is the third consecutive year of growth and
reflects the strength of the Group’s main businesses,
each of which has reported increased sales and
profits. Earnings per share rose by 15% to 47.8p and
cash flow was strong.
Our continued progress has been achieved in the face
of challenging conditions in many of our major
markets. This progress has been greatly to the credit
of GUS people at all levels and I would like to thank
them for their tremendous endeavour. 
The Board has declared a final dividend of 16.4p,
making 23.3p for the year (2002: 21.7p).
Group strategy
GUS is committed to the growth and development of
three major businesses: Experian, Argos Retail Group
(ARG) and Burberry. Each of these businesses is
already – or has the potential to be – the leader in its
chosen sectors. Furthermore, the markets in which
they operate have significant growth characteristics. Annual Report 2003 Chairman’s statement 3 
Governance 
The issue of corporate governance has been a
recurring theme in the world’s stock markets during
the year. The Board of GUS is committed to being as
transparent as any business can reasonably be and is
determined to fulfil shareholders’ expectations on
matters of disclosure. 
At the same time, we recognise that the role of
governance embraces a much wider remit. It is about
having clear strategies, attracting the best talent,
encouraging creativity and commitment, fulfilling our
responsibilities to the community and maintaining the
highest standards of integrity. Together, these are
prerequisites for corporate success that enable us to
create value for our shareholders through sustained
profitable growth. 
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman
27 May 2003
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman Financial summary
Sales Profit before taxation
2003 2002 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Experian 1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2
Argos Retail Group 5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2
Burberry 594 499 116.7 90.3
Other 117 140 42.3 48.9
Total 7,146 6,457 700.5 618.6
Net interest (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation
of goodwill, exceptional items
and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4)
Exceptional items (90.1) (72.6)
Profit before taxation 409.4 380.1
EPS before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items 47.8p 41.7p
Reported EPS 25.1p 25.7p
4 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Continued sales and profits growth
This has been our third consecutive year of sales and
profit growth. Sales in the year to March 2003 increased
by 11% and profit before amortisation of goodwill,
exceptional items and taxation by 16%. Experian, Argos
and Burberry all reported record profits.
The year also saw strong operating cash flow, as a
result of the profit growth and tight control of costs
and working capital.
Increased focus
We have continued to reposition GUS around our major
businesses – Experian, Argos Retail Group and Burberry.
The partial flotation of Burberry in July 2002 enabled
us to establish an independent market value for this
business and raised £239m for GUS. The flotation was
successfully undertaken in difficult market conditions,
reflecting Burberry’s strong financial momentum. GUS
has retained a 77.5% stake in Burberry. 
Our property joint venture with British Land and our
vehicle financing business continued to be wound
down, releasing over £200m during the year.
Since the year-end, we have disposed of our home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with our logistics and customer care
business, Reality. These operations were sold to
March U.K. Limited for approximately £590m.
We have also announced our intention, subject to
market conditions, to arrange a partial IPO for our
South African Retailing business during calendar year
2004. A partial IPO will enable GUS to realise some
value, while enhancing the development opportunities
for our South African business. 
Chief executive’s review: GUS has delivered
another strong financial performance. 
Our major businesses are positioned for
long-term growth and sector leadership. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 5
Strong investment
The release of capital during the year enabled us to
make significant investments in our major businesses,
including several acquisitions that will enhance their
growth prospects. The largest of these was Homebase,
which is the number two brand in the UK’s do-it-yourself
market. It has taken ARG into an important growth
sector and provided the potential for substantial
operational synergies. 
Experian’s acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, which
supplies online credit information to consumers in
North America, has firmly established Experian as the
leading direct-to-consumer player in its marketplace.
Experian in North America has also continued to
acquire its affiliated regional credit bureaux, in order
to gain a greater share of the value chain for credit
products. Internationally, Experian strengthened its
position with the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, a
leading information company in Denmark and Norway.
Experian also acquired its outstanding stakes in
Scorex to create a global decision solutions business. 
Burberry opened or refurbished 12 new stores,
including flagship stores in New York, London
(Knightsbridge) and Barcelona. The company also
acquired its Korean distributor and, in doing so,
completed the programme to take direct control 
of key Asian markets outside Japan. 
Growth opportunities
The major businesses of GUS now have a consistent
track record of sales and profit growth. They are
focused on growing markets and are well positioned
in those markets. They are also attracting people of
exceptional talent.
Experian is a leader in the growing international
market for business solutions, offering the broadest
range of information and services in its sector. ARG is
the UK’s leading general merchandise retailer.
Burberry continues to consolidate its position as a
leading luxury brand.
Over the next few pages you will read about the
progress that these businesses have made during the
last year, together with the strategies that are being
put in place to ensure their long-term success.
John Peace 
Group Chief Executive 6 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian
Experian helps organisations to target, acquire and
manage new customers and develop successful
customer relationships. Its clients operate in a diverse
range of sectors, including financial services,
telecommunications, healthcare, insurance, retailing,
automotive and government. 
Experian delivered global sales growth of 12% and
profit growth of 20% last year, at constant exchange
rates. This was driven by the improving underlying
sales performance of Experian North America, the
continuing strong progress of Experian International
and the benefit of strategic acquisitions. 
Throughout the year, Experian built on its leading
positions in the US and UK, while extending its reach
internationally. A number of key acquisitions were
made to enhance Experian’s global product range 
and to support its development within important
growth markets. 
Changes were also made in the global management
structure to assist Experian in leveraging resources on
a worldwide scale. In March 2003, Craig Smith,
formerly CEO of Experian North America, became
Chairman of Experian worldwide. He was succeeded
by Don Robert, formerly Chief Operating Officer in
North America. 
John Saunders, who continued as CEO of Experian
International, took on responsibility for Experian’s
global decision solutions business. This followed the
acquisition of Experian’s remaining stakes in Scorex,
an international provider of credit solutions. Experian
had been operating joint ventures with Scorex since
1996 and will now be able to develop an integrated
product range for decision solutions, available across
a wide range of markets. 
Experian North America
Experian North America performed strongly during
the year, despite some challenging market conditions.
There were productivity gains and major new
contracts throughout the business, with sales up 13%
and profits up 20% in dollars. 
Excluding the acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, credit
information and solutions sales increased 8%, helped
by demand from clients in interest rate sensitive
sectors, especially the mortgage refinancing market. 
Experian has further strengthened its
position as a leading global business
solutions company, providing strategic
support to clients in over 60 countries.
Demand for fraud protection systems was particularly
strong, with clients of Experian’s National Fraud
Database reporting a dramatic reduction in losses
after incorporating the database within their credit
application processing systems. The ability to
authenticate consumers over the Internet was another
growth area, allowing clients such as VISA, Dell
Financial Services, First American Payment Processing
and Yahoo to reduce fraud and improve each
customer’s online experience. 
Experian also embarked on a major programme to
acquire its 38 affiliate credit bureaux. This will
provide Experian with direct control of an important
distribution channel and ensure that the clients of
these affiliates have direct access to the full range of
Experian products. 
Demand for marketing information and solutions
continued to be affected by difficult market conditions,
with most clients reducing expenditure in this area.
Despite this, sales were on an improving trend
throughout the year and up 4% during the last six
months. AOL, Citigroup and Dell were among the
companies that awarded major contracts to Experian in
order to enhance their ability to reach new customers.
There was particularly strong demand for Truvue, the
Experian customer management solution, which
enables businesses to integrate the records of
different business units or databases in order to
create a single view of each customer. 
Direct-to-consumer sales now account for 11% of
Experian sales in North America, compared to less
than 1% in the previous year, following the acquisition
of ConsumerInfo.com. This business provides
consumers with online access to their credit reports
and has been combined with Experian’s own direct-to-
consumer operation to create the clear leader in this
growing market. 
The recent acquisition of PromiseMark will enable
Experian to strengthen its direct-to-consumer offer
even further by providing insurance against identity
theft, one of the fastest growing crimes in the US. 
The FARES joint venture, which is Experian’s chosen
way of competing in the real estate information
sector, had another good year and continued to
benefit from strong activity in the mortgage
refinancing market. Experian’s 20% share of FARES
profits was up $6m to almost $50m.
Some major clients: 
ABN AMRO Bank 
Abbey National
Alliance & Leicester 
AOL Time Warner 
Bank One 
Bank of America 
Barclays 
BBC News Online 
BMW 
BNP Paribas
Capital One 
Chase 
Citigroup 
Commerzbank
Egg 
First American 
Ford 
HBOS/Bank of Scotland
Household 
Lloyds TSB
MBNA
McDonald’s 
Morgan Stanley 
RBS 
Société Générale
Sears 
Standard Life Bank
Experian operating profit
£ million
 201 
 00  01  02  03 
 217 
 224
 256  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 7
Citigroup: Experian is working
with Citi Cards, the largest
provider of card products in the
United States, to develop a
centralised marketing database.
Citi Cards is a unit of Citigroup.
Motor insurance database: 
A total of 25,000 enquiries are
being received from the police
each day as they check
Experian’s motor insurance
database to see whether vehicles
are properly insured.
Headquarters: Experian’s
headquarters are in Costa Mesa,
California (pictured here) and
Nottingham, UK. The company
employs over 13,000 people
worldwide.
Fraud: Banks, building societies
and financial service providers 
in the UK and US are increasingly
turning to Experian to support
them in their fight against all
forms of fraud, from identity
theft to money laundering. 8 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian continued
Experian International
Experian International, which accounts for 40% of
Experian’s worldwide sales, had another successful
year. Sales increased by 11% and profit by 21% at
constant exchange rates.
Sales of credit information and solutions grew by
15%, with particularly strong growth in business
information and account processing. Experian’s
presence outside the UK was significantly enhanced
by the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, the leading
consumer and business credit information provider 
in Denmark and Norway. The acquisition brought the
total number of information bureaux operated by
Experian to 16 and provided a strong platform for 
the sale of a full range of integrated information and
decision support solutions.
Experian also benefited from recent investments to
bring its consumer marketing and decision solutions
skills to the field of business information. This resulted
in a range of new products, including commercial
versions of Experian’s credit application processing
system, Autoscore, and its geodemographic profiling
system, Mosaic. 
As in North America, Experian International is meeting
the growing demand for credit solutions, not least in
the fight against fraud. In the UK alone, ‘card not
present’ fraud increased by over 60% during 2002, 
as criminals used stolen credit card details to make
purchases over the telephone and Internet.
Significant progress was also made in account
processing, with a number of major contracts awarded
to Experian by clients expanding their operations into
Europe. In the UK, Experian supported the pilot of the
new Marks & Spencer joint credit and loyalty card.
Sales of marketing information and solutions grew 
by 14%, despite difficult market conditions. This was
driven by strong growth in the automotive and
insurance sectors. 
Within the automotive sector, Experian continued to
enhance its Car Data Check database, while developing
the market for dealer management and sales reporting
systems. Lexus, the luxury car manufacturer, was 
one of a number of automotive clients to adopt an
automated online system in order to make faster and
more informed marketing decisions.
Outsourcing accounted for about 30% of Experian
International’s sales and showed 4% growth in the
year. In the UK, Experian won a major contract from
NTL to supply consumer billing services. In Italy,
Experian was chosen by CartaSi, the country’s leading
bank card, to support its customer contact operation. 
In the UK, Experian enhanced its ability to provide
strategic advice to clients with the acquisition of one
of the leading economic consultancy groups, Business
Strategies. The combination of Business Strategies’
analysis and forecasting abilities with Experian’s
information assets will open up new areas of expertise
and product development.
ABN AMRO: This global 
banking group uses Experian’s
advanced decision solutions to
streamline decision-making in all
areas of customer management,
from processing loan applications
to collecting overdue accounts.
Experian’s recent acquisition of
Scorex has created a global
decision solutions business,
capable of supporting clients
such as ABN AMRO in many
different market places. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 9
Argos Retail Group had another 
successful year as the UK’s leading 
general merchandise retailer.
Argos Retail Group
Over the last three years, Argos Retail Group (ARG)
has invested significantly in building the UK’s 
leading general merchandise retailing group. ARG’s
proposition of choice, value and convenience is
supported by a greatly strengthened product supply
chain and multiple shopping channels – stores,
catalogues, telephone and Internet. Together these
provide ARG’s retail brands with a powerful platform
for growth. 
The Argos retail chain has been transformed since its
acquisition in 1998, outperforming its market for the
third successive year. The acquisition of Homebase in
December 2002 means that ARG now has the second
largest brand in the do-it-yourself market and a
strong base from which to increase its position in the
growing homewares and furnishings market.
In May 2003, ARG announced the disposal of its home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with its logistics and customer care business,
Reality. As a result, ARG in the UK and Ireland is now
focused on general merchandise through its Argos
and Homebase businesses.
In the year under review, ARG increased sales by 
11% and profits by 12%.
Argos
Argos has continued to go from strength to strength,
achieving sales of over £3bn for the first time. Sales
were up 12% and profit up 17%.
Thirty-three new Argos stores were opened during the
year, bringing the total to 523, with plans to open a
similar number this year. The store refurbishment
programme also continued apace, including initiatives
to improve customer service. Over 500 quick-pay
kiosks were installed to enable customers to order
and pay for goods without going to the till. Argos
also became the first High Street retailer to take
advantage of the growth in mobile phone text
messaging with a ‘Text & Take Home’ service. 
The Argos product range was significantly expanded,
with about 25% more products in the latest
Spring/Summer catalogue compared to the previous
edition. These were largely in the areas of bedding,
furniture and textiles, where sales are set to increase
as customer awareness grows. Delivery of products to
home via Argos Direct increased by 33% and now
accounts for 18% of all Argos sales.
Argos’ achievements during the year were recognised
by its peers at the Retail Week Awards, the UK retail
industry awards. Argos won no less than four awards:
Retail Technology, Multi-channel Retailing, Marketing
and, most importantly, Retailer of the Year.
Argos advertising: The launch
of the new Argos advertising
campaign, starring Julia Sawalha
and Richard E Grant, resulted in
faster pick-up of the new Argos
catalogue, increased purchase
frequency and improved
perceptions of the Argos brand.
It also won the Marketing
Campaign of the Year at the
Retail Week Awards 2003. 10 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Argos continued
Homebase 
Homebase, the do-it-yourself and home furnishings
retailer, was acquired in December 2002. This business
operates in fast growing markets, with excellent
organic growth prospects. There are also significant
operational benefits to be gained from combining
Homebase’s supply chain and infrastructure with
those of ARG.
The priority since acquisition was to prepare for peak
trading in April and May. In addition, the management
team was strengthened by appointments from within
ARG and a number of early gains were identified,
particularly within the supply chain. 
The focus during the current year is to create a
successful platform for growth in 2004 and beyond,
while delivering on profit expectations. Key initiatives
will include improving the in-store experience and
increasing the sales of high value items such as
furniture, bathrooms and kitchens. Further stores 
are also planned, together with the continued roll 
out of mezzanine floors, which offer an attractive
return on investment. 
Home Shopping UK & Ireland
The market for agency home shopping remained
difficult during the year. As a result, sales in ARG’s 
UK & Ireland home shopping businesses were 
8% below the level of last year. 
The rundown or sale of peripheral businesses
accounted for 3% of this decline. Sales from continuing
direct catalogues, principally Marshall Ward and
Abound, remained strong. 
Reality
Reality continued to support ARG’s multi-channel
operations with home delivery and customer care
services. Sales to external customers were level with
the previous year. The core logistics business grew
sales by 7%, but this was offset by the withdrawal
from and sale of peripheral activities, including
packaging and fleet management. 
Following the disposal of Reality in May 2003, ARG 
has entered into commercial agreements with it for 
the continuing provision of home delivery and 
other services. 
Financial Services
Demand for the Argos store card continued to grow,
with 630,000 active accounts, up from 460,000 
a year ago. Outstanding balances increased from
£50m to £155m, with over 7% of sales at Argos now
made using the store card.
Argos personal loans, which were introduced with the
Autumn/Winter catalogue, also made good progress. 
Home Shopping Continental Europe
Sales in Continental Europe increased by 10% and
profit by 5% at constant exchange rates. Wehkamp,
which is the leading home shopping brand in Holland,
accounted for 80% of these sales and benefited from
improved promotional activity and strong growth in
branded clothing and electronic goods.
ARG operating profit
£ million
 192 
 00  01  02  03 
 21 7 
 255 
 285  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 11 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 11
Store openings: Homebase had
273 stores at the year-end and a
further nine are planned during
the current financial year.
Argos growth: Argos has
continued to go from strength 
to strength, outperforming 
its market for the third
successive year.
Homebase: The new mezzanine
floors are enabling Homebase 
to showcase kitchens, bathrooms
and home furnishings, while
providing an attractive return 
on investment.
Argos store card: Over 7% of
Argos sales were made using the
Argos store card. There were
about 630,000 active card holders
by the year-end.  12 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Burberry
This was an eventful year for Burberry, both
strategically and financially, during which it
established a strong platform for future growth.
The year began with Burberry’s successful IPO, which
took place during some of the most difficult stock
market conditions in more than a decade. It was a
significant milestone in a five-year transformation 
of Burberry that saw a new management team
undertake a series of initiatives to create a distinctive
luxury brand with international recognition and 
broad appeal. 
Burberry ended the year with an excellent set of
financial results, ahead of expectations at the time of
the IPO in July 2002. At constant exchange rates,
sales increased by 21% and profit by 34%. 
Products
Burberry products include apparel for women, men
and children, together with accessories such as
handbags, scarves and small leather goods. 
The continuing development of high-margin
accessories was a primary objective during the year.
These now account for 29% of the product mix.
Womenswear, which led the revitalisation of the
Burberry brand, maintained its strong momentum,
with sales up 20% on the previous year. This was led
by strong demand for new interpretations of
traditional Burberry classics such as the trench coat
and by new core classics such as quilted jackets and
kilt-inspired skirts. In menswear, Burberry continued
to capitalise on the masculine heritage of the brand
by broadening and intensifying its product range.
The Burberry Prorsum men’s and women’s collections
were showcased on the catwalks during Milan’s
quarterly fashion weeks. These strategically
important collections received outstanding 
press reviews. 
Burberry continued to build on its 
unique positioning as the authentic 
British luxury brand.
Distribution
Burberry sells products in Europe, North America and
Asia through its own directly operated stores and
wholesale customers. 
The company made further strategic progress with
the acquisition of its Korean distributor, which
completed Burberry’s programme of taking direct
control of its primary Asian markets outside Japan.
The licensing arrangements in Japan, which is the
most important luxury market in the world, continued
to flourish with retail sales in excess of an estimated
£1 billion.
In North America, which represents a key area of
future growth, Burberry continued to expand its
presence through increased sales in existing and new
stores. The new 24,000 square foot store in New York
City was one of five to be opened in North America. 
It also became the largest of Burberry’s flagship stores
to date and the most complete expression of the
Burberry brand in the US market.
Within Europe, the brand’s repositioning in the domestic
Spanish market made encouraging progress, led by
the opening of a store in Barcelona, Burberry’s first in
this important market. 
Burberry operating profit
£ million
 22 
 00  01  02  03 
 70 
 90 
 11 7  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 13 
New York: The new 24,000
square foot flagship store in 
New York City was opened in
November 2002. It was one of 
1 2 Burberry stores to be opened
or refurbished last year.
Apparel: Burberry’s apparel
collections were showcased in
London and Milan during the
year, with significant editorial
recognition from fashion and
lifestyle media.
Barcelona: Burberry’s
repositioning in the important
Spanish market progressed with
the opening of a store in
Barcelona. 
Accessories: Burberry
accessories were 29% of the sales
mix, compared to 25% in the
previous year as a result of
continued product development. 14 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
South African Retailing
Despite the tough economic environment, our South
African Retailing business continued to make progress.
Strong price competition and high interest rates held
back sales, which were up 2% in local currency on the
previous year. However, profits were up 13% in rand,
as the result of an expanded financial services offer,
careful control of bad debt and cost savings initiatives. 
South African Retailing has a strong market position
and an excellent management team. It currently
operates 398 Lewis stores and 45 Best Electric stores
and, in recent years, has undertaken a number of
initiatives to enhance the product range, improve
credit controls and reduce costs. The business is now
well placed to take advantage of the widely expected
recovery in consumer spending in South Africa.
Subject to market conditions, we intend to arrange a
partial IPO on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange
for our South African Retailing business during
calendar year 2004.
Our social responsibilities
Our businesses have continued to focus on the issues
of Corporate Social Responsibility with enthusiasm and
commitment. The Group’s latest CSR Report records
strong progress in our environmental, community and
human rights management. We also continue to be
listed in the main indices of socially responsible
investment, including FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones
Global Sustainability Index. 
In our environmental management, we have improved
our energy efficiency for the third year running, while
finding new ways to reduce our use of packaging
across the Group. We have also devoted considerable
effort to implementing our Supplier Principles to
ensure that suppliers share our concern for human
rights in the workplace.
Such progress relies greatly on the wholehearted
enthusiasm and support of GUS people at all levels,
but nowhere more so than in our relationships with
local communities. The GUS Charitable Trust is the
primary focus for the Group’s direct giving to
community projects and donated £967,000 during the
year. In a groundbreaking move, it brought together
over 20 medical charities in the field of prostate
cancer to work together for change. 
Experian undertook a wide range of community
initiatives, including sponsorship of the Robin Hood
Marathon in Nottingham, which was supported by
over 700 employees, and the Habitat for Humanity
project in North America to provide affordable
housing for low-income families. Argos Retail Group
focused many of its fundraising efforts on its charity
of the year, Barnardo’s, raising over £370,000. 
Our people
Our ability to attract and motivate talented people
remained a high priority during the year. Our
recruitment policies benefited from the increasing
strength of our brands and we continued to develop
the working environment and incentives to encourage
top performance. The GUS ‘Sharesave’ arrangements
were extended to four new countries and a further
four countries will be included this year. 
Summary
GUS has had another good year. We have continued 
to focus and strengthen the Group, while generating
increased sales and profits for the third consecutive
year. Our main businesses have strong management
teams, clear strategies and many further opportunities
for growth and we remain confident about their
future prospects.
John Peace
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2003
The Group’s major businesses have strong
management teams, clear strategies and
many further opportunities for growth.
South African Retailing: GUS 
is planning a partial IPO of its
South African business during
calendar year 2004, subject to
market conditions. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 15
Experian marathon: The
Experian Robin Hood Marathon 
in Nottingham was voted by
Runners World magazine as the
best marathon in the UK after 
the London Marathon. More 
than 700 Experian employees
supported this fund raising event.
Barnardo’s: Employees of 
Argos Retail Group raised over
£370,000 for their charity of the
year, Barnardo’s. 
GUS Sharesave: The GUS
Sharesave Scheme, which enables
employees to take a stake in 
the business through a 
SAYE share option plan, continues
to be rolled out beyond the UK. 16 Annual Report 2003 Operational review
Experian
For global Experian, sales for the year increased by 12%
and operating profit by 20% at constant exchange rates.
Both Experian North America and Experian
International delivered double-digit increases in sales
and profit, driven by a combination of organic growth
and targeted acquisitions. 
Of the £256m of operating profit generated by
Experian, 105% was converted into operating cash
flow. This was a significant improvement from last
year, driven by tighter control of working capital and
lower capital expenditure.
In March 2003, Craig Smith, who joined as CEO of
Experian North America in June 2000, was appointed
Chairman of Experian worldwide. Don Robert, who was
Chief Operating Officer of Experian North America,
succeeded Craig Smith as CEO of that business.
John Saunders, CEO of Experian International, has
taken on additional worldwide responsibility for
Global Decision Solutions, Experian’s first global
business unit. It was formed as a result of the
acquisition of the outstanding stakes in its joint
ventures with Scorex, the credit decision solutions
company, for £70m in March 2003. This acquisition
will give Experian additional scale and accelerated
growth in the credit decision solutions market. It will
benefit from the expertise of a combined
management team and an integrated product range.
Experian North America 
Experian North America delivered a strong
performance in the year under review, with sales
exceeding $1billion for the first time. Operating profit
grew by 20% in dollars, leading to an operating
margin expansion of 1.4 percentage points. The
management team was further strengthened,
productivity again improved and major contracts were
won across the business. 
Financial review
In dollars, Experian North America increased sales by
13%, with growth accelerating in the second half.
ConsumerInfo.com, which was acquired in April 2002,
contributed 11% of this growth. Had its sales been
included in the prior year, Experian’s dollar sales
would have increased by 6% on a proforma basis.
Operational review: Experian
Experian
Sales Operating profit
2003 2002
1
2003 2002
1
12 months to 31 March £m £m £m £m
Experian North America 718 688 171.5 154.6
Experian International 483 427 84.9 69.6
Total 1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2
Operating margin 21.4% 20.1%
1
2002 restated to reflect transfer of activities from gusco.com to Experian North America and transfer of
third party call centre and related activities from Reality to Experian International
Experian North America
Change
2003 2002 at constant
12 months to 31 March £m £m FX rates
Sales 718 688 13%
Operating profit
1
171.5 154.6 20%
Of which:
– Direct business
2
139.4 123.9 22%
– FARES 32.1 30.7 13%
Operating margin 23.9% 22.5%
1
2002 profit restated to include £4.9m loss from CreditExpert previously reported in gusco.com
2
After restructuring costs of £4.2m in 2003 (2002: £7.7m) Annual Report 2003 Operational review 17
Excluding ConsumerInfo.com, sales in Credit
Information and Solutions rose by 8% in the year. This
was helped by strong demand from clients in interest
rate sensitive sectors, especially the mortgage
refinancing market. Experian’s own initiatives were also
successful, especially in scoring and fraud solutions
and an improved business information offering. 
Direct-to-consumer sales in the year totalled $123m,
11% of Experian North America’s revenue, up from
less than 1% last year. As well as Experian’s own
developed products, it acquired ConsumerInfo.com,
the market leader in supplying online credit and
related information to consumers in the United States.
Experian has seen significant growth in this market
during the year (up 87% on a proforma basis), with
over 1.4m paid members at March 2003 – up from
0.8m a year earlier. 
Against a background of difficult trading conditions,
Marketing Information and Solutions sales declined by
5% in the year. However, sales were on an improving
trend throughout the year (-13% in H1; +4% in H2),
especially in the multi-channel retail and media sectors. 
In dollar terms, operating profit grew by 20% and the
operating margin advanced to 23.9% (19.4% excluding
FARES). The main drivers of this were:
– the benefits from strong Credit growth in the year,
offset in part by a lower contribution from
Marketing;
– a significant increase in the contribution from
direct-to-consumer activities; 
– continued tight control of costs, despite above
inflation increases in areas such as legal,
insurance and employee-related costs; 
– significant productivity improvements, with sales
per employee increasing by 18%; and
– as previously announced, a change in the data
amortisation period for its consumer credit data
from five to seven years, which benefited profits
by $9m in the year. 
With profits up $5.8m to $49.7m, FARES, the real
estate information joint venture, had another excellent
year, helped by continuing low interest rates. 
Operational review
Experian North America remains focused on growth:
– it is building on its core businesses. Experian
North America continues to win contracts and take
share in many activities. By controlling costs, it is
able to re-invest in new product areas while
protecting margins.
Experian North America is also driving growth by
buying in its affiliated credit bureaux, which act
principally as resellers of its data in certain
regions. At 31 March 2003, 11 affiliates out of a
total of 38 bureaux had been acquired at a cost of
$48m. Their contribution to sales in the year to
March 2003 is estimated at significantly less than
1% to sales. The complete acquisition programme
is expected to cost up to $300m and to generate
double-digit post-tax returns on capital;
– it is successfully selling new solutions. Experian’s
strategy of cross-selling products to clients and
‘bundling’ products together for individual clients,
both of which are done successfully in Experian
International, has started to produce results in
North America. Notable wins include Dell in credit
and fraud solutions. In Marketing, major contracts
in many sectors have recently been won, as
Experian can bundle different products across
many channels (mail, e-mail, in-store, etc).
Previously, clients were buying these services from
up to five separate suppliers; and
– it is growing by targeted acquisitions. The
acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com gave Experian
leadership in the online direct-to-consumer market.
This is growing fast, driven by consumers’ desire
to manage their credit more actively and by their
increasing awareness of fraud and identity theft.
Experian has also been increasing its market share
by introducing innovative products and through
strategic alliances.
Reported sales for 
Experian North America
$ million
12 months to 31 March
■ Credit - Information
■ Credit - Solutions
■ Marketing - Information
■ Marketing - Solutions
■ Outsourcing
 1,1 11 
 985 
  02  03 18 Annual Report 2003 Operational review
Experian International 
Experian International, which accounts for 40% of
total Experian sales, had another excellent year,
continuing its long record of double-digit sales and
profit growth. At constant exchange rates, sales
increased by 11%, with acquisitions, net of disposals,
contributing 1% of this growth. With operating profit
at constant exchange rates up by 21%, the operating
margin advanced by 1.3 percentage points. 
Financial review
At constant exchange rates, sales in Credit Information
and Solutions together grew by 15%, with strong
performances from business information and account
processing in particular. The latter was strong in the
second half of the year as development work was
undertaken on three major new projects. 
Since December 2001, Experian has been the prime
systems and service partner for a multi-million pound
business re-engineering, systems delivery and
outsourcing project for the financial services arm of
Marks & Spencer. The project to support the pilot of
the new Marks & Spencer joint credit and loyalty card
involved delivery of account processing and related
services all supported by operational and business
consultancy from Experian. The project successfully
delivered as planned. Experian are continuing to work
closely with Marks & Spencer.
Despite difficult conditions, sales in Marketing
Information and Solutions together increased by 14%,
again accelerating in the second half. This was driven by
strong growth in the automotive and insurance sectors.
Outsourcing accounts for about 30% of Experian
International’s sales and showed 4% growth in the year. 
Operating profit grew by 21% at constant exchange
rates. This was driven by strong sales growth and by
tight cost control across the business, with further
productivity increases demonstrated by an 8%
improvement in sales per employee.
Operational review
Experian International continues to focus on
sustaining sales and profit growth:
– it is building on its core businesses. Experian
International continues to win major contracts
across its business. In the UK, it is the clear
market leader in consumer credit information and
continues to grow share in the financial sector and
in new industries, such as telecommunications. It
is also building share elsewhere in Europe,
especially in Spain and Italy; 
– it is successfully selling new solutions. Product
innovation is key to Experian in driving growth and
winning share. For example, during the year,
Experian International launched a new service that
automates decisions for banks and financial
institutions for lending to businesses. This is
generating early success with both existing and new
clients. Another example is the completion of the
UK’s Motor Insurance Database, which now holds
details of 28 million vehicle insurance policies.
25,000 enquiries per day are now being received
from the police, showing how Experian’s skills can
be successfully applied to a new sector; and
– it is growing by targeted acquisitions. In addition
to the small, targeted acquisitions made in the
first half, Experian International acquired Nordic
Info Group A/S in January 2003 for approximately
£90m. This market-leading company provides
consumer and business information in Denmark
and Norway and has annual sales of about £30m.
This acquisition brings to 16 the number of
consumer and business bureaux operated by
Experian worldwide. It offers an opportunity to
sell Experian’s value-added products, such as
application processing, fraud prevention and
customer management solutions, alongside the
information products in Denmark and Norway.
Since acquisition, the business has met all
expectations and work is well underway to
enhance the current product range with value-
added solutions from Experian. 
As Experian International serves more clients on a
pan-European basis, it is no longer appropriate to
report sales separately for UK and Rest of World. 
From 1 April 2003, Experian International will
therefore report one combined sales number. 
Experian International
Change
2003 2002 at constant
12 months to 31 March £m £m FX rates
Sales
UK
1
298 264 13%
Rest of World 185 163 9%
Total 483 427 11%
Operating profit 84.9 69.6 21%
Operating margin 17.6% 16.3%
1
2002 sales restated to include £23m of third party call centre and related activities transferred from Reality
Reported sales for 
Experian International
£ million
12 months to 31 March
■ Credit - Information
■ Credit - Solutions
■ Marketing - Information
■ Marketing - Solutions
■ Outsourcing
 427 
 483 
  02  03 Annual Report 2003 Operational review 19
Argos
2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m Change
Sales
1
3,192 2,847 12%
Operating profit
1
238.2 204.0 17%
Operating margin 7.5% 7.2%
1
Includes Argos Additions and jungle.com
Operational review: Argos Retail Group
Argos Retail Group
Argos Retail Group (ARG) had another successful year,
with sales up 11% and profit up by 12%. Argos again
performed particularly strongly, outperforming in 
its market, with annual sales exceeding £3billion for
the first time.
There has been significant corporate restructuring at
ARG in the last 12 months:
– Homebase, a UK DIY and home furnishings retailer,
was acquired for £902m in December 2002;
– Home shopping businesses in the United Kingdom,
Ireland and Sweden, together with Reality, were
sold for about £590m in May 2003; and
– other smaller, underperforming businesses were
sold or closed during the year.
With its focus now on general merchandise, both
Argos and Homebase have clear strategies and
operational initiatives to deliver growth. This will be
key in a period where growth in UK consumer
spending is expected to be muted.
ARG generated £67m of operating cash flow,
equivalent to 24% of operating profit. Investment in
the year to March 2003 in supply chain, new stores
and the Financial Services loan books will underpin
future growth.
Argos
For the third successive year, Argos’ sales grew faster
than its market and it again grew operating margin.
At the same time, customers’ perceptions of the
choice, value and convenience it offers also continued
to improve. This improvement, along with Argos’ own
growth initiatives, should enable it to continue to
outperform its market as consumer spending growth
slows further in the current year.
Financial review
Excluding Argos Additions and jungle.com, Argos’
sales in the full year increased by 13%, or 7% on a
like-for-like basis. For the year as a whole, it grew
share in all its major markets, with particularly strong
sales growth in consumer electronics, mobile phones,
electricals and home furnishings. 
Gross margins for the year were firm, supported by
better sourcing. Excluding integration costs of £8.7m
relating to jungle.com, operating margin advanced by
a further 0.5%.
Argos Retail Group
Sales Operating profit
2003 2002 2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m £m £m
Argos 3,192 2, 847 238.2 204.0
Homebase
1
251 – 2.2 –
Home Shopping UK & Ireland
2
1,482 1,607 15.4 33.6
Financial Services 34 11 4.6 (4.8)
Home Shopping Continental Europe 275 238 24.7 22.4
Total 5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2
Operating margin 5.4% 5.4%
1
Homebase sales and profit consolidated for the period from date of acquisition (20 December 2002) to
28 February 2003, Homebase’s new year-end
2
2002 Home Shopping UK & Ireland restated to include £74m sales and £0.5m profit previously reported
by Reality 20 Annual Report 2003 Operational review
Argos continued
Operational review
As previously outlined, Argos has a clear strategy for
growth and has made good progress this year against
its objectives:
– Argos plans to open about 35 new stores each
year. At 31 March 2003, Argos operated 523
stores, an increase of 33 in the year. These new
stores contributed 6% to sales growth, ahead of
expectations. Of the 33 stores, about two-thirds
were second or third stores within a town or city.
The opening of these new stores inevitably
deflects some sales from existing stores and
therefore had the effect of reducing like-for-like
sales growth by an estimated 3%. In the current
year, Argos plans to open an additional 35 stores,
with potential for over 650 in four years time;
– Argos is refurbishing its small stores. By 31 March
2003, 340 stores had the modernised brand fit-
out, with a further 100 planned for this year.
Initiatives to improve customer service have also
been made across the chain. For example, over
500 quick-pay kiosks have been installed in 190
stores. These enable customers to order and pay
for goods without going to the till. Currently, over
4% of sales in these stores are going through the
kiosks and customer usage is growing;
– Argos is enhancing choice for customers by
extending the range of products and services
offered. Range extension has been a key driver of
sales growth in the year under review. Both the
Autumn/Winter 2002 catalogue (11,400 lines) and
the Spring/Summer catalogue (11,600 lines) have
about 25% more products than the same catalogue
the previous year. The additional lines are focused
on areas such as textiles and bedding, furniture
and homewares, with about two-thirds available in
store and one-third for home delivery only. Sales
of these new lines have met expectations in the
year and aided gross margin. In addition, Argos’
previous experience of range expansion suggests
that sales of these lines should continue to
increase as customer awareness of them grows. 
In January 2003, Argos initiated a test in the South
West to expand its product range further. A new
catalogue called Argos Extra, which added 4,500
lines to the existing range, is being tested in five
of its larger stores and in five neighbouring
smaller stores, where these goods are available
for collection 48 hours after ordering. Although
still at an early stage, the trial will be extended in
July 2003 to an additional five larger stores and
nine neighbouring stores in the North West;
– Argos is investing £120m over four years in its
supply chain. The four-year programme initiated
last year is on track, making improvements to IT ,
software systems and product sourcing. The new
560,000 square feet central distribution centre,
which will handle all direct imports, opens in June
2003. Aided by the ARG Hong Kong buying office
and the new IT systems, direct importing now
accounts for 16% of sales (up from 12% three
years ago).  
With prices on re-included lines in the current
Spring/Summer catalogue 2% lower than last year,
the supply chain investments made to date are
already benefiting customers, while allowing
Argos’ margins to remain firm; and
– Argos is growing capacity and improving
customer service in Argos Direct, its delivery to
home operation. Sales via Argos Direct grew by
33% during the year and accounted for 18% of
Argos’ sales – up from 16% last year. Approximately
£550m of sales were delivered to home. About
one-quarter were products available in store and
three-quarters were more bulky items such as
furniture and widescreen TVs, which are only
available for home delivery. The new 650,000
square feet Argos Direct warehouse in
Bedfordshire has been operational since January
2003. This significantly increases Argos’ capacity
for two-man delivery of bulky items. Argos was
the second most visited retail website over
Christmas 2002, while the Internet contributed 3%
of Argos’ total sales in the year.
Sales at Argos Additions increased by 11% in the year
to £144m. Following a slow first half, improvements
were made to merchandising and the credit offer in the
Spring/Summer catalogue. The Additions brand name
has been sold to March U.K. Limited. The Autumn/
Winter 2003 catalogue will be the last to use the Argos
brand and to be distributed via Argos stores. Annual Report 2003 Operational review 21
Homebase
2003
1
2002
£m £m
Sales 251 –
Operating profit 2.2 –
1
Homebase sales and profit consolidated for the period from date of acquisition (20 December 2002) to 
28 February 2003, Homebase’s new year-end
Homebase
Homebase, a leading UK DIY and home furnishings
retailer, was acquired in December 2002 for £902m.
It enhances ARG’s long-term competitive position as:
– it brings to ARG a leading brand in fast growing
markets, with good organic growth prospects;
– it is pursuing growth in the furniture and
homewares market, where ARG already has
considerable presence and skills; and
– there are operational benefits from combining
ARG and Homebase, in terms of supply chain 
and infrastructure. 
Period since acquisition
The priority in the period since acquisition has 
been to prepare for peak trading in April and May.
The management team at Homebase has been
strengthened with appointments from within ARG and
actions to improve retail disciplines in the short term
have been implemented.
Since the start of its new financial year on 1 March
2003, Homebase has traded in line with expectations.
As is GUS’ established practice, a more detailed
comment on first quarter trading will be made on 
23 July 2003. For Homebase, it will cover sales in 
the four months to 30 June 2003.
Operational review
During the current financial year, the priority at
Homebase will be to create a platform for growth in
2004 and beyond, while delivering on profit
expectations. The key initiatives are:
– improving retail disciplines. This includes
improving the in-store experience, particularly
stock availability, ease of shopping and customer
service; strengthening the price proposition, by
reinvesting some of the sourcing benefits into
reducing prices on key lines; and improving
category management skills, particularly for core
DIY and decorating ranges;
– increasing sales of kitchens, bathrooms and home
furnishings. In the twelve months to 28 February
2003, homewares, which includes these ranges,
contributed 21% of sales – up from 18% in the
previous year. They showed a year-on-year growth
of 20%. Several trials are planned for this year to
improve the offering in these categories,
particularly in furniture and furnishings, building
on development work already undertaken at ARG.
Homebase is also developing plans to improve
significantly its two-man delivery service, building
on the expertise and success of home delivery
within Argos;
– opening more mezzanine floors and increasing
their productivity. At 28 February 2003, 36 stores
had mezzanine floors, which are used to
showcase kitchens, bathrooms and home
furnishings. Their average size is 11,600 square
feet, ranging from 7,000 to 17,000 square feet.
On average, sales uplifts were about 15% in the
year, contributing around 1% to total sales growth.
As the return on investment on these mezzanines
is attractive, an additional 35-40 mezzanine 
floors will be installed in the current financial year,
at a capital cost of about £35-40m. Several trials
are planned to modify the category mix in order
to optimise the sales densities on and returns
from mezzanines;
– opening more new stores. At 28 February 2003,
Homebase had 273 stores. An additional nine
stores are planned to open in the current financial
year. The small store trial will be accelerated.
These are 20-25,000 square feet stores, offering
edited ranges in catchments which will not
support a full range store; and 22 Annual Report 2003 Operational review
Homebase continued
– delivering integration benefits. Given the degree
of overlap between ARG and Homebase in
products and suppliers, there are significant gains
to be achieved over time from improved sourcing.
Early benefits are being achieved through terms
harmonisation and should generate savings of
over £5m in the current year. Beyond that,
increasing the percentage of direct importing and
supply chain improvements will reduce sourcing
costs at Homebase. Direct importing currently
accounts for 8% of sales, but has scope over time
to move to about 30%.
In addition, Homebase is working with ARG in
certain areas such as e-commerce, financial
services, IT and media buying to reduce costs and
improve customer service. 
The priority for the current financial year is to further
strengthen the business and build a platform for
future growth, while delivering on profit expectations.
Capital expenditure at Homebase in the current
financial year is expected to be about £65-70m,
compared to £66m last year. As previously
announced, re-organisation costs are expected to be
about £10m in the current year. 
Financial review
As already reported, Homebase’s year-end has been
moved to the end of February to avoid distortions
relating to the timing of Easter and its associated
promotions and trading patterns. January and
February are seasonally quiet months. In its financial
year to 31 March 2003, GUS has consolidated sales of
£251m and operating profit of £2.2m for the period
from acquisition on 20 December 2002 to 28 February
2003. This performance is in line with the same
period last year.
For the twelve months to 28 February 2003, sales 
at Homebase were £1,444m, an increase of 4% over
last year (3% like-for-like). Operating profit was
£101.6m, giving an operating margin of 7.0%,
compared to 5.9% in the previous year. This was
driven primarily by improvements in gross margin
and non-operational costs.
Home Shopping UK and Ireland
The agency home shopping market deteriorated
during the year under review. As a result, both sales
and profit at Home Shopping UK & Ireland were below
the level of last year. 
Reported sales in Home Shopping were 8% below last
year. During the year, management has continued to
sell or close peripheral businesses, including Family
Hampers, Innovations and McCord. Excluding these
peripheral businesses, the sales decline was 5%.
Agency sales fell by 9% in the year (H1 –5%; H2 –13%)
although GUS maintained market share. The number
of active customers was further reduced to 2.5m,
with a small increase in average spend per customer.
Sales from continuing direct catalogues, mainly
Marshall Ward and Abound, account for 15% of sales.
They saw continued strong growth (up nearly 40% in
the year).
Home Shopping UK and Ireland
2003 2002
1
12 months to 31 March £m £m Change
Sales
Home Shopping 1,409 1,533 (8%)
Reality logistics 73 74 –
Total 1,482 1,607 (8%)
Operating profit 15.4 33.6 –
Operating margin 1.0% 2.1%
1
2002 Home Shopping UK & Ireland restated to include £0.5m profit previously reported by Reality  Annual Report 2003 Operational review 23
Financial Services
2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m
Sales
1
34 11
Operating profit/(loss) 4.6 (4.8)
1
Sales represent interest income, fees and commissions relating to the Argos store card and Argos 
personal loans
Home Shopping Continental Europe
Change
2003 2002 at constant
12 months to 31 March £m £m FX rates
Sales 275 238 10%
Operating profit 24.7 22.4 5%
Operating margin 9.0% 9.4%
Gross margins at Home Shopping were in line with
last year. However, the sharp slowdown in sales in the
second half more than countered the benefits of the
cost reduction programme that has been underway
for the past three years. An additional 250
redundancies were announced during the second half.
Reality’s sales to third parties were flat year-on-year.
However, this masked 7% growth in the core logistics
business, offset by the withdrawal from or sale 
of peripheral activities such as packaging and 
fleet management.
Financial Services
Financial Services reported a profit in the year, with
the improvement largely driven by the continued
build-up of the Argos store card. This resulted in
more interest income as the number of active
accounts and the size of the debtor book both grew.
At 31 March 2003, there were about 630,000 active
Argos store card accounts, up from 460,000 a year
earlier. The gross loan book increased by £50m to
£155m. Over 7% of sales at Argos were made via the
store card. Argos’ personal loan offer was first included
in the Autumn/Winter 2002 catalogue and the gross
loan book had grown to £37m at 31 March 2003.
The contribution to profits from Home Shopping
customers was £17m in the year. Following the
disposal to March U.K. Limited, this profit stream is
no longer part of ARG Financial Services.
Home Shopping Continental Europe
At constant exchange rates, sales from European
Home Shopping increased by 10% and profit by 5%.
This was driven by Wehkamp, the leading home
shopping brand in Holland, which accounts for over
80% of sales. It benefited from improved promotional
activity, higher service levels and strong growth in
branded clothing sales and electronics. 16% of
Wehkamp’s sales were through its website.
Halens, the Scandinavian operation, has been sold to
March U.K. Limited. In the year to March 2003, its
sales were £46m and its profit was about £5m. Sales
grew by 4% in local currency, while profits benefited
from the expansion of its financial services offering. 24 Annual Report 2003 Operational review
Operational review: Burberry
Burberry
Following the partial IPO of Burberry Group plc, GUS
retains a 77% stake in Burberry. The following is an
abridged version of the latter’s preliminary
announcement released on 22 May 2003.
The year to March 2003 saw significant progress for
Burberry. It completed a partial IPO, advanced its
strategic agenda and maintained its financial
momentum, exceeding the expectations set at the
time of the IPO.
Financial review
Total sales in the year increased by 21% at constant
exchange rates, or 12% on an underlying basis (i.e. at
constant exchange rates and excluding the impact of
the Asia acquisitions). Operating profit increased by
34% at constant exchange rates, driven by the
contribution from these Asia acquisitions and a
further improvement in the gross margin. Operating
margin expanded by 1.6% to 19.7%. Operating cash
flow more than doubled in the year to £108m.
Operational review 
Burberry continued to implement its strategic
initiatives across product categories, geographic
regions and channels of distribution.
By product categories
Accessories’ share of sales expanded to 29%,
compared to 25% in the previous year, driven by
continued emphasis on product development.
Womenswear maintained its momentum (up 20% year-
on-year), while menswear saw solid growth (up 9%).
By geographic regions
Burberry experienced strong sales growth in the US,
driven by both wholesale and retail operations. There
were more moderate underlying gains in Europe,
while growth in Asia was dominated by the impact of
the Asia acquisitions.
By channels of distribution
Total retail sales increased by 46% in the year, or 25%
on an underlying basis. During the year, Burberry
opened flagship stores in New York, Barcelona and
London (Knightsbridge), as well as opening nine other
stores and acquiring 46 concessions in Korea. At 31
March 2003, it operated 132 retail locations. Burberry
plans to increase retail selling space by approximately
10% in 2003, with the opening of eight stores,
including one in Milan – Burberry’s first store in Italy.
Total wholesale sales advanced 6%, or 5% on an
underlying basis, with high single digit growth for the
Spring/Summer merchandise, for which shipments are
concentrated in the second half of the year. Based on
the Autumn/Winter 2003 initial order book, Burberry
expects high single digit wholesale sales growth for
this season. 
Licensing revenues in the year increased by 9% (14%
at constant exchange rates), led by 10% volume gains
in Japan and increases in certain royalty rates, as well
as strong sales gains by global product licensees. As
reported, licensing revenues did moderate in the
second half (21% in H1; 9% in H2, both at constant
exchange rates).
While acknowledging the challenging operating
environment, and especially the exceptional 
short-term uncertainty faced by the luxury goods
industry, Burberry remains confident in its long-term
growth strategies.
Burberry
Change
2003 2002 at constant
12 months to 31 March £m £m FX rates
Sales 594 499 21%
Operating profit 116.7 90.3 34%
Operating margin 19.7% 18.1%
Burberry acquired the operations of its primary distributors in Asia outside of Japan in January 2002 and
July 2002 (the “Asia acquisitions”) Annual Report2003 Operational review 25
Operational review: Other businesses
South African Retailing
As already stated, GUS intends, subject to market
conditions, to arrange a partial IPO for its South
African Retailing business on the Johannesburg
Securities Exchange during calendar year 2004.
Sales in rand were 2% up for the year as a whole. 
The second half of the year was more difficult with
increased competitive activity, three interest rate
increases and the high level of food and petrol
inflation impacting total consumer spending and
durable goods in particular. Operating profit, however,
increased by 13% in rand in the year, driven by further
growth in financial services and by cost saving
initiatives. The business currently operates 398 Lewis
stores and 45 Best Electric stores.
The rand weakened further from an average rate of
£1= R13.5 in 2002 to an average of R14.9 in 2003.
This reduced reported sales by £12m and operating
profit by £3.2m in the year. The closing rate at 31
March 2003 was R12.5.
Our South African Retailing business has a strong
market position. This has been enhanced by recent
consolidation in the industry, which has already led 
to the closure of a significant number of stores by
competitors. Our business has a strong, experienced
management team. Its initiatives to enhance
merchandise, improve credit systems and reduce
costs make it well placed for the expected recovery 
in consumer spending in South Africa. 
Property
The joint venture with British Land disposed of a
further 27 properties in the year for £55m. GUS’ 50%
share of operating profit was broadly in line with the
prior year as the fall in rental income from sold
properties was offset by small gains on disposal and
increasing rents from the remaining portfolio. The
joint venture’s portfolio of 121 remaining properties
was valued at £796m at 31 March 2003. 
GUS’ investment in the joint venture at 31 March
2003, including its loans to the venture, amounted to
£210m. A continuing programme of property
disposals is planned in the current year.
South African Retailing
Change
2003 2002 at constant
12 months to 31 March £m £m FX rates
Sales 114 123 2%
Operating profit 31.8 30.9 13%
Operating margin 27.8% 25.2%
Property
2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m
Operating profit 25.9 24.8
Finance
2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m
Operating profit 6.6 15.1
gusco.com
2003 2002
12 months to 31 March £m £m
Operating loss
1
(2.7) (4.8)
1
2002 profit restated to exclude £4.9m loss from CreditExpert now reported in Experian North America
Finance
General Guarantee Finance largely completed the wind
down of its loan book during the year. At 31 March
2003, GGF’s outstanding advances, net of provisions,
were £63m, a reduction of £191m. All of the securitised
debt, which had been used to fund the business, has
now been repaid.
gusco.com
Revenue spend largely comprised the funding of
MyPoints Europe, a web-based loyalty scheme. 
As both the Finance Division and gusco.com are now
so small, they will be included within central costs
from 1 April 2003. 26 Annual Report 2003 Financial review
Financial review 
Sales
The Group’s turnover grew by 11% from £6,457m to
£7,146m, including £375m from acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions and at constant exchange
rates, Group turnover from continuing operations was
10% higher than last year.
Profit
Group profit before amortisation of goodwill,
exceptional items and taxation increased by 16% to
£642m. Return on sales before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation rose from 8.6% to 9.0%. The
improvement reflects a focus on our core businesses
where profitability has risen. The goodwill charge
increased to £162m from £127m, largely as a result of
acquisitions made during the year and £19m relating
to impairment of goodwill following the closure of
Innovations. 
Taxation
The Group’s effective rate of tax for the year, before
goodwill charge and profit/loss on sale of businesses,
has fallen from 23.8% to 22.7%. This continues to be
lower than the UK standard corporate tax rate, mainly
because of efficient structures for the Group’s
overseas activities.
Shareholder return and dividends
Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items were 47.8p in the year ended
31 March 2003 compared to 41.7p last year. The
Board has proposed a final dividend of 16.4p per
share, a rise of 1.2p (8%) on last year. The dividend
for the year as a whole of 23.3p is covered 2.05
times from earnings before goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items.
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds amount to £2,543m, a rise of
£126m in the year. This is equivalent to 253p per
share compared with 240p last year.
Share price and total shareholder return
The share price of GUS ranged from a low of 440p to
a high of 700p during the financial year. On 31 March
2003, the mid market price was 487p, giving a
market capitalisation of £4.9bn at that date.
Total shareholder return (the increase in the value of a
share including reinvested dividends) was 44% over
the three years to 31 March 2003. This compares
favourably with the total shareholder return for the
average FTSE 100 company which was minus 40%. 
Cash flow and investment in the business
Cash flow before acquisitions, disposals and dividends
amounted to £618m compared to £478m in the
previous year. Cash flow benefited from the growth in
profits in the year and from tight control over working
capital which was £201m lower despite the growth in
the Argos store card loan book. Capital expenditure
grew by £7m to £329m and was equivalent to 134%
of the depreciation charge in 2003.
With the £902m purchase of Homebase, there was a
net cash outflow of £802m for the year after the
payment of dividends, the repayment of securitised
loans and acquisitions and disposals.
Liquidity and funding
At 31 March 2003, the Group had net borrowings of
£2,086m. This shows an increase of £601m in net
borrowings which were £1,485m at 31 March 2002,
including securitised loans of £201m. The securitised
loans were repaid during the year. The maturity,
currency and interest rate profile of the Group’s
borrowings are shown in note 33 to the financial
statements. The acquisition of Homebase was initially
funded with bank borrowings. The substantial
majority of these were re-financed in February 2003
by the issue of two bonds under the Group’s recently
established Euro Medium Term Note Programme: 
Group cash flow
2003 2002
12 months ended 31 March £m £m
Profit before goodwill, exceptionals and tax 642 552
Exceptional items – (45)
Corporation tax (141) (82)
Change in working capital 201 163
Capital expenditure (329) (322)
Depreciation 245 212
Free cash flow 618 478
Dividends (220) (213)
Acquisitions and divestments (1,037) (35)
Net cash flow (639) 230
Securitisation repayments (201) (380)
Foreign exchange movements 38 (4)
Movement in net debt (802) (154) Annual Report 2003 Financial review 27
£350m 5.625% due June 2013 and €600m 4.125%
due 2007. The proceeds of the latter were swapped
into sterling and a proportion of the proceeds of both
were swapped into floating rates. 
The Group maintains substantial committed bank
facilities. At 31 March 2003 undrawn committed
facilities totalled £566m.
Treasury and risk management 
The Group’s Treasury function seeks to reduce or
eliminate the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange,
interest rate and other financial risks, to ensure
sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable
needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
It does not operate as a profit centre and transacts
only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are
periodically reviewed and approved by the Board and
is subject to regular Group Internal Audit reviews.
Interest rate management
The Group’s interest rate exposure is managed by the
use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the
use of interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of
fixed and floating rate liabilities. The Group also
mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the
impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Interest costs were £8m lower than last year. This
reflects the impact of lower interest rates (£6m), the
previously announced change in the way GUS
accounts for interest (a gain of £9m) and the interest
income on proceeds from the partial IPO of Burberry
(£7m). These were partly offset by the funding costs
associated with the acquisition of Homebase (£15m).
The note below on Accounting Policies provides a
more detailed explanation of the accounting change,
which relates to forward sales of foreign currencies
undertaken to hedge overseas assets. 
Currency risk management 
The Group’s reported profit can be significantly affected
by currency movements. Approximately 41% of the
Group’s operating profit generated in the year ended 
31 March 2003 was earned in currencies other than
sterling. In order to reduce the impact of currency
fluctuations on the value of investments in overseas
countries, the Group has for some years had a policy 
of borrowing in US dollars and euros, as well as in
sterling, and of entering into forward foreign exchange
contracts in these two currencies. During the year
ended 31 March 2003 the Group also entered into
forward foreign exchange contracts to sell South
African rand, in order to hedge a proportion of the
value of its investment in its South African retailing
business. Additionally, the Group has a policy of
hedging foreign currency denominated transactions
by entering into forward exchange sale and 
purchase contracts. 
Credit risk
The Group's exposure to credit risk is managed by
dealing only with banks and financial institutions with
strong credit ratings, within limits set for each
organisation. Dealing activity is closely controlled and
counter-party positions are monitored daily. 
Acquisitions and disposals
With a total spend of £1,265m, this was an active
year for acquisitions. The largest of these transactions
was Homebase, a leading UK DIY and home
furnishings retailer, which was acquired in December
2002 for £902m. There were three 
other significant acquisitions during the year.
ConsumerInfo.com, the leading supplier of online
credit reports, scores and related information to
consumers in the United States, was purchased in
April 2002 for $130m. Nordic Info Group, comprising
three leading consumer and business information
companies in Denmark and Norway, was acquired 
in January 2003 for £90m. The Group also acquired 
the outstanding stakes in its joint ventures with
Scorex, the credit decision solutions company, 
in March 2003 for £70m.
Smaller acquisitions included Experian's purchases of
affiliate credit bureaux in the United States and other
businesses in the UK and France.
The largest disposal during the year was the partial
Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of Burberry in July 2002
in which 23% of its ordinary shares were sold. 
The profit on disposal was £139m after deducting the
cost of employee share schemes in connection with
the IPO. Other smaller disposals include the sale of
Family Hampers in the UK and Fidelitas in Argentina.
 329
Capital expenditure
£ million
 264 
 00  01  02  03 
 268 
 322 
 7,146
Sales
£ million
 5,658 
 00  01  02  03 
 6,041 
 6,457 
 642 
Underlying profit before tax*
£ million
* Excluding amortisation of goodwill 
  and exceptional items
 448 
 00  01  02  03 
 487 
 552 
 618
Free cash flow
£ million
 272 
 00  01  02  03 
 481  478  28 Annual Report 2003 Financial review
Exceptional items
An exceptional loss of £90m was incurred during the
year. The major exceptional items were the £139m
profit on the partial IPO of Burberry and the £210m
provision for the loss on the disposal of the Group’s
Home shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and
Sweden, together with Reality (see post balance 
sheet event below). There was also a charge of 
£19m for impairment of goodwill, previously written
off to reserves, on the closure of Innovations. All 
other costs of reorganisation and restructuring are
treated as operating costs and are included within
operating profit.
Minority interests
Profit attributable to equity minority interests in 2003 of
£17m relates mainly to the 23% of profit attributable to
the minority shareholders of Burberry. It also includes
profit attributable to minority shareholdings in
companies owned by Experian International.
Minority interests on the balance sheet represent the
minority share of the net assets of these companies.
Pensions
This year the Group has continued to account for
pension costs under SSAP 24 although in accordance
with the FRS 17 transitional arrangements, certain
disclosures are included in Note 36 to the financial
statements. There is no effect on the primary 
financial statements.
The sharp fall in equity markets during the year
reduced the market value of the Group’s pension
scheme assets, while the fall in interest rates
increased the discounted value of the liabilities. As a
result the FRS 17 disclosures show a net deficit for all
retirement benefit schemes of £215m net of tax relief
at 31 March 2003. Although this situation is not
welcome, it should be noted that the deficit is equal
to less than 4% of the Group’s market capitalisation
and can prudently be resolved over a period of
several years. It therefore has no material impact on
the Group’s operations or financial flexibility.
Contribution rates for the Group’s principal pension
schemes were increased in April 2002. The next
regular actuarial valuation of these schemes will
measure the position at 31 March 2004. Unless, over
the next year or so, there is a material change in the
long-term outlook for investment returns, that
valuation is likely to lead to a further increase in the
contribution rates paid to the schemes. In anticipation
of this the Group made additional special contributions
of £20m in the year ended 31 March 2003.
Accounting policies and standards
The principal accounting policies used by the Group
are shown on pages 59 to 61. There have been no
new Financial Reporting Standards adopted in this
financial year. 
The Group has for several years hedged its
investments in subsidiaries outside the UK by a
combination of foreign currency borrowings and
forward sales of relevant foreign currencies. The
forward premium/discount to spot exchange rates
incorporated in these forward sales contracts reflects
the differential between sterling interest rates and the
interest rate of the currency concerned. 
Until 31 March 2002 this interest rate differential had
been taken directly to reserves, along with the
changes in value during the year of the currency
borrowings, the forward currency sales and the assets
being hedged. For GUS, the most significant overseas
assets are in the United States. With short term US
interest rates well below sterling interest rates and
the growth in the Group's forward sales of US dollars,
the interest element of these forward dollar sales,
whose effect is to reduce interest costs, has become
more significant. Similar issues arise in connection
with the Group's hedging of its euro and South
African rand assets, with euro interest rates slightly
below sterling rates and South African interest rates
significantly higher than sterling rates.
Exceptional items
2003 2002
12 months ended 31 March £m £m
Continuing operations
Net profit on partial IPO of Burberry 139 –
Loss on sale of businesses – (6)
Restructuring costs in Argos Retail Group/Reality – (36)
Loss on sale of e-commerce investments – (2)
139 (44)
Discontinued operations
Provision on disposal of Home shopping/Reality (210) –
Goodwill impairment (19) (28)
(229) (28)
Total charge (90) (72) Annual Report 2003 Financial review 29 
With effect from 1 April 2002, the Group has been
accounting for the forward premium/discount arising
on forward currency sales as interest. The effect of
this change has been to reduce interest expense for
the year ended 31 March 2003 by £9m; this consists
of a £12m gain from dollar and euro hedging less a
£3m cost of South African hedging. There would have
been no material effect if this approach had been
applied in the year ended 31 March 2002.
Post balance sheet event 
On 27 May 2003, the Group announced the disposal
of its home shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland
and Sweden, together with Reality, its logistics and
customer care business in the UK. The disposal of the
UK Home Shopping business and Reality is
unconditional. The disposal of the Irish and Swedish
businesses is conditional on regulatory approval. 
The businesses have been sold for about £590m to
March U.K. Limited, a company ultimately controlled
by Sir David Barclay and Sir Frederick Barclay. The
initial consideration for the UK businesses was
approximately £410m. The balance, receivable on
completion following regulatory clearance in Ireland
and Sweden, is £40m. Additionally, there is an
unconditional consideration of about £140m payable
three years from now. This is in the form of a
convertible loan note from the purchaser, with
interest payable at sterling LIBOR plus 0.5% per
annum. The proceeds will be used to pay down debt. 
The businesses being sold generated sales of £1.67bn
and operating profit of £35m in the year ended 31
March 2003. The transaction has no material impact
on earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill
and exceptional items. 
The businesses have been sold free of debt. The net
book value of assets at the date of completion is
approximately £800m. GUS therefore expects to incur
a book loss of about £210m on the transaction and a
provision for this amount has been made in the 
year to March 2003. In addition, there will be an
exceptional charge, which will be taken in the year to
March 2004, relating to the costs of the transaction
and to the costs of the resulting reorganisation of the
ARG shared services infrastructure. This is currently
estimated at about £30m and will be mainly cash. 
Argos Retail Group now comprises four activities:
Argos, Homebase, Wehkamp, its market-leading home
shopping company in the Netherlands, and ARG
Financial Services. ARG has also entered into various
commercial contracts with March U.K. Limited to
cover the provision of home delivery and other
services. These contracts last for up to three years.
David Tyler
Group Finance Director 30 Annual Report 2003 Board of directors
Terry Duddy (47) Chief Executive, Argos Retail Group
David Tyler (50) Finance Director
David Tyler graduated from Cambridge University, where he read
Economics, in 1974.
He spent the first 11 years of his career working for Unilever in a
variety of financial, commercial and strategic jobs. In 1986 he joined
County NatWest where he worked in senior financial control roles. He
then worked for Christie’s International from 1989 to 1996 as Finance
Director and as President of Christie’s America.
David Tyler has been Finance Director of GUS plc since February 1997.
Aside from his financial role, he also now has responsibility for the
development of Group strategy and has operational responsibility for
some of the Group’s smaller businesses. Since June 2002, he has been 
a non-executive director of Burberry Group plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
and a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Board of directors
Terry Duddy began his career at Letraset in 1978, initially in personnel
management and later in product management. He joined the Dixons
Stores Group in 1984, where he held various commercial positions,
including Sales Director of Currys, Product Marketing Director of the
Dixons Stores Group and, latterly, Managing Director of PC World. 
Terry Duddy joined GUS in August 1998 as Chief Executive of the newly
acquired Argos, becoming a director of GUS plc later that year. In 2000
he was appointed Chief Executive of the Argos Retail Group. 
John Peace (54) Group Chief Executive
John Peace joined GUS in 1970 and held several senior IT management
positions before co-founding CCN in 1980. CCN was the company
formed by GUS to market information services to retailers and other
lending organisations. In 1991, John Peace was appointed Chief
Executive of CCN, which was by then one of Europe’s largest
information services companies. 
During the mid-nineties, CCN was combined with a number of other 
US and European businesses to form a global information services
organisation called Experian, with John Peace as its Chief Executive. 
In 1997, he joined the Board of GUS plc, becoming Group Chief
Executive in January 2000. 
In June 2002, John Peace was appointed Chairman of Burberry Group
plc, in advance of its partial flotation by GUS in July 2002.
John Peace is Chairman of the Board of Governors of Nottingham Trent
University, a member of the Board of Companions of the Chartered
Management Institute and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. 
Craig Smith (52) (USA) Chairman, Experian
Craig Smith studied business management at Towson University in
Baltimore, Maryland before joining Maryland National Bank in 1973.
Here he gained experience in all areas of retail lending and bank
operations, becoming Vice President. 
In 1982, Craig Smith was one of five founding executives of MBNA
America Bank and spent 12 years with that organisation. He went on to
become Chairman and founder of Hamilton Partners, a management
consultancy specialising in advising financial services organisations.
Craig Smith joined Experian in June 2000 as Chief Executive Officer for
Experian North America. In March 2003, he joined the Board of GUS plc
and was appointed Chairman of Experian worldwide. 
Craig Smith is involved with a number of local charitable organisations and
directs Experian’s worldwide corporate social responsibility programme.
Alan Smart was educated at Rondebosch Boys High and the University of
Cape Town. After serving articles of clerkship with a chartered accounting
practice, he joined Lewis in 1969. He held several financial control
positions before being appointed Credit Director of Lewis in 1980.
In 1984 Alan Smart was promoted to Joint Managing Director, with
responsibility for credit and store operations. In 1991 he became Chief
Executive of the Lewis Group, a position he currently holds.
Alan Smart is a former national council member of the Furniture Traders
Association of South Africa.
Alan Smart (58) (South Africa) Chief Executive, South African Retailing
Sir Victor Blank (60) Chairman
Sir Victor Blank was educated at Stockport Grammar School and St
Catherine’s College, Oxford. He qualified as a solicitor with the law firm
Clifford-Turner (now Clifford Chance), becoming a partner in 1969. In
1981, he moved into investment banking with Charterhouse, becoming
Chairman and Chief Executive in 1985. He was also a director of The
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc from 1985 to 1993. He joined the
Board of GUS plc in 1993.
Sir Victor retired from investment banking in 1997, having become
Deputy Chairman of GUS the previous year. He became Chairman of GUS
in 2000 and is also Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc and a director 
of Chubb plc. 
Sir Victor is a member of the Financial Reporting Council and Chairman
of the Industrial Development Advisory Board. He is a member of the
Council of Oxford University. He chairs two charities, WellBeing and 
UJS Hillel, as well as the Council of University College School.
Sir Victor is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, an Honorary Fellow of St Catherine’s College, Oxford, 
a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Companion of the Institute 
of Management. Annual Report 2003 Board of directors 31
Frank Newman (61) (USA) Non-Executive Director
Frank Newman is Chairman Emeritus of Bankers Trust Corporation,
having served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1995 
to 1999. He currently serves as an advisor to private-equity investment
firms and financial institutions. Frank Newman joined the Board of GUS
plc in 2001. 
Before joining Bankers Trust, Frank Newman was the Deputy Secretary of the
United States Treasury Department. He served in the Treasury Department
from early 1993 until late 1995. As Deputy Secretary, Frank Newman was
the number two official and Chief Operating Officer of the department.
Previously, Frank Newman spent six years with BankAmerica
Corporation, where he was Chief Financial Officer and Vice-Chairman of
the Board. Prior to joining BankAmerica in 1986, he was Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells Fargo Bank.
Frank Newman is a director of Dow Jones & Company, Korea First Bank
and a privately held technology company. He is a member of the
advisory board of Renault and Nissan. He is also a board member of
three public-purpose organisations: the Carnegie Hall Society, Cornell
University Weill Medical College, and MDRC (public policy research).
Sir Alan Rudge (65) Non-Executive Director
Sir Alan Rudge was Deputy Chief Executive of BT until November 
1997 and Chairman of WS Atkins until March 2001. He joined the Board
of GUS plc in 1997 and also serves as a non-executive director on the
Boards of Apollis AG and SESA AG. He is currently President of MSI
Cellular Investments BV, Chairman of ERA Technology Ltd and Pro
Chancellor of Surrey University. 
Sir Alan has a PhD in Electrical Engineering and is a Fellow of the Royal
Society and the Royal Academy of Engineers. He is a past President of
the Institution of Electrical Engineers and past Chairman of the
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Louise Patten joined the Board of GUS in 1997 and chairs the
Remuneration Committee. She is also Chairman of Brixton plc and a
non-executive director of Hilton plc and Somerfield plc, as well as
Senior Adviser to Bain & Co. 
Louise graduated from Oxford University in 1977 and went from there
to Citibank. She remained in banking until 1985, when she moved into
management consultancy. In 1993, Louise joined Bain & Co, the global
strategy consultancy, as a Partner.
Louise has considerable experience as a non-executive director. She was
a director of Harveys Furnishings plc from 1993–2000 and of the
Catholic Building Society from 1993–1997 and was appointed to the
board of Hilton Group plc in 1993. Louise is also senior non-executive
director and remuneration committee chairman of Somerfield plc, 
whose board she joined in 1998, and was its interim Chairman from
1999–2000. In 2001, she joined the Board of Brixton plc as a non-
executive director, taking over the chairmanship of Brixton in May 2003.
Oliver Stocken (61) Non-Executive Director
After qualifying with Arthur Andersen, Oliver Stocken became a director
of NM Rothschild & Sons and subsequently Managing Director of
Barclays Australia and of Barclays Merchant Bank in London.
At the inception of BZW Holdings in 1986 he was a member of the
Board, becoming Chief Operating Officer in 1990 and later Finance
Director. In May 1993 he became Group Finance Director, Barclays PLC,
finishing this role in September 1999.
Oliver Stocken was appointed to the Board of GUS plc in April 2000 and
chairs the Audit Committee. He is Deputy Chairman of 3i plc and a non-
executive director of Rank Group plc, Pilkington plc, Novar plc,
Searchspace Limited, Rutland plc and Stanhope plc.
Oliver Stocken is also a Trustee of the Natural History Museum; Council
Member and Treasurer of the Royal College of Art; Chairman of Finance
and Member of the Committee of the MCC; Trustee of the Henley River
& Rowing Museum, and Chairman of the Trustees of the Devas Youth
Club, Wandsworth.
Lord Harris was educated at Streatham Grammar School and in 1957, 
at the age of 15, took over the running of the family business. This
consisted of three carpet shops, which by 1977 he had increased to 
93. Later that year he acquired Queensway Discount Warehouse and in
1978 successfully floated the Harris Queensway Group. In 1988, Harris
Queensway was taken over by the Lowndes Consortium and Lord Harris
went on to set up Carpetright, which was floated in 1993. Lord Harris 
is Chairman and Chief Executive of Carpetright plc, which now has over
440 stores. 
Lord Harris was appointed to the Board of GUS in 1986. He is also
Chairman of Harris Ventures Ltd and the prostate cancer ‘Investing In
Life’ campaign.
Lord Harris is a major sponsor of the Harris City Technology College in
Croydon, Bacon’s College, Southwark and Kemnal Technology College,
Sidcup. He is also in the process of funding two City Academies, one in
Peckham and another in Croydon, together with a Community Centre in
Peckham. He is a benefactor of two colleges at Oxford, Oriel and Harris
Manchester, and Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge.
Secretary 
David Morris FCA 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stockbrokers
Cazenove
Merrill Lynch
Solicitors 
Linklaters & Alliance 
Berwin Leighton Paisner
Registered Office 
Universal House 
Devonshire Street 
Manchester M60 1XA 
Company No. 146575 
Registrars and 
transfer office 
Lloyds TSB Registrars 
The Causeway 
Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Corporate Governance
Committee 
Sir Victor Blank (Chairman)
John Peace
Sir Alan Rudge
David Morris
Audit Committee
Oliver Stocken (Chairman)
Frank Newman
Lady Patten
Sir Alan Rudge 
Remuneration Committee
Lady Patten (Chairman)
Sir Alan Rudge
Oliver Stocken 
Nomination Committee
Sir Victor Blank (Chairman)
John Peace
Lord Harris
Frank Newman
Lady Patten
Sir Alan Rudge
Oliver Stocken 
Lord Harris of Peckham (60) Non-Executive Director
Lady Patten of Wincanton (49) Non-Executive Director 32 Annual Report 2003 Directors’ report
Directors’ report
The directors present their Annual Report together
with the audited financial statements for the year
ended 31 March 2003.
Principal activities and business review
GUS is a retail and business services group. It provides
business information and customer relationship
management services globally through Experian,
general merchandise retailing and home delivery
through Argos Retail Group and luxury goods 
through its 77 per cent holding in Burberry. The
activities of Argos Retail Group were widened through
the acquisition of Homebase in December 2002 and,
on 27 May 2003, the Group announced the disposal
of its Home Shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland
and Sweden, together with Reality, its logistics and
customer care business in the UK. GUS also has UK
Property interests and owns a retailing business in
South Africa. The review of the results for the year
and an indication of future developments appear on
pages 2 to 29.
Profit and dividends
The profit for the year amounts to £251m (2002
£257m). An interim dividend of 6.9p was paid to the
Ordinary shareholders of the Company on 7 February
2003 and, on 27 May 2003, the directors recommended
the payment, on 8 August 2003, of a final dividend of
16.4p, giving a total dividend for the year of 23.3p
(2002 21.7p). The final dividend, once approved, will
be paid to those persons on the Register of Members
at the close of business on 11 July 2003.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the directors
holding office at the date of this report are shown on
pages 30 and 31. Particulars of directors’ emoluments
and their interests in the shares of the Company and
its subsidiaries are shown in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
There were no changes in the directors’ interests in
shares between the end of the financial year and 
27 May 2003.
Victor Barnett retired from the Board on 1 July 2002.
Craig Smith was appointed a director on 25 March
2003. As the appointment was made after the date of
the last Annual General Meeting, he will retire in
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association
and a resolution proposing his re-election will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors retiring by rotation at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting are Lord Harris of Peckham,
Lady Patten of Wincanton, John Peace and Oliver
Stocken who, being eligible, offer themselves for 
re-election. Lord Harris will offer himself for 
re-election annually in the light of his length of
service as a non-executive director.
Details of directors’ service contracts are set out in
the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and Related
Matters on page 49.
During the year, the Company maintained liability
insurance for its directors and officers.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on Corporate Governance is
set out on pages 34 to 39.
Acquisitions and disposals
The partial flotation of Burberry was successfully
completed on 12 July 2002 through an Initial Public
Offering which saw approximately 23 per cent of
Burberry shares pass to external investors. The offer
price amounted to 230p per share producing net
proceeds of £239m.
On 21 November 2002, GUS announced that it had
made an agreed offer to acquire the whole of the share
capital of Homebase. The transaction was completed
on 20 December 2002 for a consideration of £902m.
As reported last year, Experian North America acquired
ConsumerInfo.com in April 2002 for a consideration of
$130m payable in cash. Other significant acquisitions
made in the year under review were Nordic Information
Group and the remainder of the issued share capital in
the Group’s existing investment in Scorex, the total
consideration for these transactions being £160m.
Post balance sheet event
On 27 May 2003, the Group announced the disposal
of its home shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland
and Sweden together with Reality, its logistics and
customer care business in the UK. The disposal of 
the UK Home Shopping business and Reality is
unconditional. The disposal of the Irish and Swedish
businesses is conditional on regulatory approval.
The businesses have been sold for about £590m. 
The initial consideration for the UK businesses was
approximately £410m. The balance, payable on
completion following regulatory clearance in Ireland
and Sweden, is £40m. Additionally, there is an
unconditional consideration of about £1 40m payable in
three years’ time.
Substantial shareholding
As at 27 May 2003, the Company had been notified
that Legal & General Investment Management Limited
held 35,279,930 Ordinary shares which represented
3.5 per cent of the issued share capital of the
Company at that date.
Save for the above, no person has reported any
material interest of 3 per cent or more or any 
non-material interest exceeding 10 per cent of the
issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
Purchase of own shares
At last year’s Annual General Meeting, authority was
given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up
to 100m of its shares, representing approximately 9.9
per cent of its issued Ordinary share capital. 
On 24 September 2002, the Company made a market
purchase of 190,000 Ordinary shares with a nominal
value of £47,500 and representing 0.02 per cent of
the called up Ordinary share capital at that time. The
total consideration paid was £895,000. The purchase
was made in order to enhance shareholder value
through an increase in earnings per share.
The authority to make market purchases expires at
this year’s Annual General Meeting when shareholders
will be asked again to give a similar authority. 
Details are contained in the accompanying Circular 
to Shareholders. Annual Report 2003 Directors’ report 33
Interests in own shares
Details of the Company’s interests in its own shares
are set out in note 16(b) to the financial statements 
on page 70.
Annual General Meeting
The eighty-fifth Annual General Meeting of the
Company will be held at the Marriott Grosvenor
Square, Grosvenor Square, London W1A 4AW at
11.30am on Wednesday 23 July 2003. The Notice 
of Meeting is included in a separate Circular to
Shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report.
Corporate social responsibility
Last year, the Company published its first separate
Corporate Social Responsibility report. This year’s
report will be published on the Company’s website,
www.gusplc.com, with a briefer report printed in 
hard copy form. This is available on request from 
the Company Secretary. In addition there is a section
on Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 51 
and 52.
Donations
The Group’s support for charitable causes is
channelled through the work of the GUS Charitable
Trust. The Trust’s income from the Company in respect
of the year ended 31 March 2003 was £963,000.
The Group made no political donations and incurred
no items of political expenditure.
Employment policies
The GUS Group consists of a number of businesses
operating in different sectors. While employment
practices may vary between these businesses, the
Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that:-
■ All employees receive fair and equal treatment
irrespective of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality,
marital status, religion, sexuality or disability;
■ The working environment is conducive to
achievement and free from sexual harassment 
and intimidation;
■ Disabled persons, whether registered or not, 
have equal opportunities when applying for
vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and
abilities. In addition to complying with legislative
requirements, procedures ensure that disabled
employees are fairly treated and that their training
and career development needs are carefully
managed. For those employees becoming disabled
during the course of their employment, every
effort should be made, whether through retraining
or redeployment, to provide an opportunity for
them to remain with the Group; and
■ The assessment of training needs and the provision
of appropriate training is delivered to its employees.
Health and safety
Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that
all reasonable precautions are taken to provide and
maintain working conditions, for employees and
visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in
compliance with statutory requirements and
appropriate codes of practice.
The Group’s trading divisions pursue the objective of
minimising the instances of occupational accidents
and illnesses. Examples of this are to be seen in the
employment of health and safety advisers and
occupational health staff and in the establishment of
detailed policies and statements of intent.
Employee involvement
Group companies consult their staff on matters of
concern to them in the context of their employment.
In those Group companies where there are 
recognition agreements with Trade Unions there 
is a consultation process through national and 
local Trade Union representatives and through 
joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees is
also disseminated through conferences, meetings,
publications and electronic media.
A second invitation under the UK and Ireland
Sharesave Schemes together with first invitations
under new International Schemes to employees in
Germany, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain were made
in June 2002. A special savings plan for employees in
France and a Section 423 Plan for employees in the
US were also introduced during the year under review.
Creditor payment
For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to:-
■ Agree and confirm the terms of employment at
the commencement of business with that supplier;
■ Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal
obligations; and
■ Continually review the payment procedures 
and liaise with suppliers as a means of 
eliminating difficulties and maintaining a 
good working relationship.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2003 were
29 days (2002: 25 days) based on the ratio of Group
trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts
invoiced during the year by trade creditors. The
Company has no trade creditors.
Auditors
Following the transfer of substantially all of the
business of the UK firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers,
the Company’s auditors, to a limited liability partnership
on 1 January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned
and the directors appointed the new firm,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . Resolutions concerning
the re-appointment of the auditors and authorising
the directors to set their remuneration will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
David Morris
Secretary
27 May 2003
Registered Office:
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester
M60 1XA 34 Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Combined Code
The Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) requires listed
companies to disclose, in relation to the Combined
Code (“the Code”), how they have applied its
principles and whether they have complied with its
provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board of GUS supports the principles of corporate
governance advocated by the Code and, following 
a change made during the year under review, it is
now able to confirm that it fully complies with all 
its provisions.
The Board’s policy over many years has been to limit
the service contracts of executive directors to one-
year rolling terms and, to this extent, it complies with
the relevant provision of the Code. In the past, there
has been one exception to this policy which the Board
justified as being in shareholders’ interests. As a
reflection of local employment conditions in South
Africa, Alan Smart, Chief Executive of the Group’s
retailing interests in that country, had a contract
which provided for 24 months’ notice on the part 
of both the company and the executive. These
arrangements were varied during the course of the
year under review in that, by letter dated 21 August
2002, the parties agreed that the period of notice
should be reduced to 12 months on the part of both
the executive and the company. With this exception,
there was full compliance with the provisions of the
Code throughout the year under review.
The coming year will see changes to the Code as a
result of the publication, in January 2003, of the
following reports:-
■ The Higgs Review – The Role and Effectiveness of
Non-Executive Directors
■ The Smith Report – Combined Code Guidance for
Audit Committees
The new Code was to have applied to reporting
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2003 and it was
generally expected that full compliance with the new
provisions of the Code would take some time for
companies to achieve. However, implementation has
now been deferred to provide an opportunity for a
working party to consider the proposals further. The
Board of GUS will be considering these in full once
the new Code has been published.
In the meantime, the Board has taken the opportunity
to improve its practices by adopting some of the
recommendations of the two reports.
Directors
The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive
plus four executive directors and five non-executive
directors. Sir Alan Rudge is the senior independent
member of the Board.
The five non-executive directors are determined by
the Board to be independent in character and
judgement and there are no relationships or
circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect,
a director’s judgement. The Higgs Review has
recommended a definition of independence for
inclusion in the revised Code. Under this definition,
Lord Harris will be deemed not to be independent
because he has served on the Board for more than
ten years; a position previously recognised by the
Company in his standing down as a member of the
Remuneration Committee. In the light of his length 
of service, Lord Harris will now be subject to annual
re-election by shareholders.
The non-executive directors are appointed for specified
terms, the details of their respective appointments
being as set out in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on page 49.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet
as a group without the executive directors present
and the non-executive directors would consider
meeting in the absence of the Chairman if there were
concerns which the Chairman had failed to resolve or
if there were any issues concerning his performance
or terms of appointment.
The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and
meets more frequently as required. It met on ten
occasions during the year under review. 
The duties of the Board and its committees are set
out clearly in formal terms of reference, which are
reviewed regularly, stating the items specifically
reserved for decision by the Board. The Board
establishes overall Group strategy, including new
activities and withdrawal from existing activities. It
approves the Group’s commercial strategy and the
operating budget and monitors divisional performance
through the receipt of monthly reports and
management accounts. The process for the approval
of acquisitions/divestments for the most part is a
matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to
the Chief Executive the responsibility for such
activities up to a specified level of authority. Similarly
there are authority levels covering capital expenditure
which can be exercised by the Chief Executive or by
the Chairman and Chief Executive jointly. Beyond
these levels of authority, projects are referred to the
Board for approval.  Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance 35
Other matters reserved to the Board include:-
■ Treasury
■ Control, audit and risk management
■ Remuneration
– the Company’s framework of executive
remuneration and its cost in the light of
recommendations made by the Remuneration
Committee
– the remuneration of the non-executive directors 
■ Pension schemes
■ Corporate Social Responsibility
■ The appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to
enable it to discharge its duties. This includes monthly
management accounts irrespective of whether or not
a Board meeting is programmed. There is also a
procedure under which directors, in furtherance of
their duties, are able to take professional advice, if
necessary, at the Company’s expense. The Company
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures are followed and all directors have access
to his advice and services. 
Hitherto, there has been no formal process covering
performance evaluation of the Board. However, this is
a matter that has received the attention of the Board
and such a process has been introduced during the
course of the current financial year.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders
at the first opportunity after their appointment and
thereafter in accordance with Article 76.1 of the
Company’s Articles of Association. This ensures
compliance with the Code by providing that all
directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at least once every three years.
The Board has established a number of committees,
including Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and
Corporate Governance:
(a) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of four non-executive
directors, considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Oliver Stocken (Chairman), Frank Newman,
Lady Patten and Sir Alan Rudge. The Committee has
at least one member possessing what the Smith
Report describes as recent and relevant experience.
Oliver Stocken, a chartered accountant, was Group
Finance Director of Barclays PLC between 1993 and
1999. It will be seen from the directors’ biographical
details, appearing on pages 30 and 31, that the other
members of the Committee bring to it a wide range
of experience from positions at the highest level both
in the UK and the USA.
The Committee normally meets four times a year and
did so during the year under review. Both the external
auditors and the Group Internal Auditor are present at
the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice
for the Committee to meet the external auditors
without management present. 
The main role and responsibilities are set out in
written terms of reference which encompass those
recommended by the Smith Report for adoption in a
revised Combined Code, ie:-
■ to monitor the integrity of the financial
statements of the Company, reviewing significant
financial reporting issues and judgements
contained therein;
■ to review the Company’s financial control and risk
management systems;
■ to monitor and review the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal audit function;
■ to make recommendations to the Board in relation
to the appointment of the external auditor and 
to approve the remuneration and terms of
engagement of the external auditor; and
■ to monitor and review the external auditors’
independence, objectivity and effectiveness,
taking into account UK professional and
regulatory requirements.
These responsibilities are discharged in the 
following manner:-
■ At its meetings in May and November, the focus
falls on a review of the Preliminary
Announcement/Annual Report and Financial
Statements, and the Interim Announcement
respectively. On both occasions, the Committee
receives reports from the external auditors
identifying any accounting or judgemental issues
requiring its attention.
■ A quarterly report from the Group Internal Auditor
is presented at each of the four meetings. In
addition, at the March meeting, the Group Internal
Auditor submits the department’s audit plans for
the coming year.
■ The external auditors also present their audit
plans at the March meeting and, at the September
meeting, there is a detailed review of the
management letter covering the auditors’ findings
in respect of the prior financial year.
■ Group companies are, from time to time, required
to make presentations to the Committee on the
subject of risk, its identification, management 
and control.
■ As a matter of routine, the Committee is presented
with information on material litigation involving
Group companies. 36 Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit
Committee is to make recommendations to the Board
in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
A number of factors are taken into account by the
Committee in assessing whether to recommend the
auditors for re-appointment. These include:-
■ The quality of reports provided to the Audit
Committee and the Board and the quality of
advice given.
■ The level of understanding demonstrated of the
Group’s business and industry.
■ The objectivity of the auditors’ views on the
controls around the Group and their ability to co-
ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure
that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
In this context, the Committee receives half yearly
reports providing details of assignments and related
fees, carried out by the external auditors in addition
to their normal work. These are reviewed against the
Committee’s established guidelines which are:-
■ Audit related services – the auditors’ deep
knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that they
are best placed to carry out such work. This
extends to, but is not restricted to, shareholder
and other circulars, regulatory reports and, on
occasion, work in connection with acquisitions
and disposals.
■ Taxation services – generally, the auditors’
knowledge of the Group’s affairs provides
significant advantages which other parties would
not have. Where this is not the case the work is
put out to tender.
■ General – in other circumstances, proposed
assignments are put out to competitive tender
and decisions to award work taken on the basis of
demonstrable competence and cost-effectiveness.
(b) Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of
non-executive directors considered by the Board to be
independent : Lady Patten (Chairman), Sir Alan Rudge
and Oliver Stocken. The application of corporate
governance principles in relation to directors’
remuneration is described in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
(c) Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are 
Sir Victor Blank (Chairman), the five non-executive
directors and John Peace. The Committee would be
chaired by the senior independent director on any
matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company. 
The Nomination Committee has written terms of
reference covering the authority delegated to it by the
Board. These include the following duties:-
■ To review regularly the Board performance,
including structure, size and composition and
make recommendations to the Board with regard
to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
■ Board appointments and removals are matters
reserved for the Board. It is the responsibility of
the Nomination Committee to identify and
nominate candidates, for the approval of the
Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they
arise and to review succession plans for both
Board and senior executive positions.
■ Setting policy for granting of service agreements
(including mitigation policy).
(d) Corporate Governance Committee
The members of the newly constituted Corporate
Governance Committee are Sir Victor Blank, 
John Peace, Sir Alan Rudge and David Morris, the
Company Secretary.
The Committee has written terms of reference
covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include keeping under review all legislative,
regulatory and corporate governance developments
that might affect the Company’s operations and
making recommendations to the Board in relation
thereto, always striving to ensure that the Company
is at the forefront of best practice. Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance 37
Relations with shareholders
The Company recognises the importance of
communicating with its shareholders and does this
through its Annual and Interim Reports and at the
Annual General Meeting. Although it does not have
precise rules covering meetings with institutional
shareholders, it is always ready to enter a dialogue
with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
The Board is also keen to have an independent insight
into the views of major investors and, with this in
mind, it commissions its external Investor Relations
adviser to carry out research in interviews with such
shareholders. A detailed report is then prepared and
its findings are presented to the Board. Any investor
with concerns should take these to the Chairman and,
if unresolved, to the senior independent director.
All directors normally attend the Annual General
Meeting and are available to answer shareholders’
questions. Voting at the Annual General Meeting is by
way of a show of hands by members present at the
meeting unless a poll is validly called. Following each
vote on a show of hands, the level of proxies lodged
on each resolution and the number of proxy votes for
and against the resolution is announced.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The case to demonstrate corporate social responsibility
continues to grow as do requests for engagement
meetings on the subject from institutional investors,
the Government, non-governmental organisations 
and the media.
Last year we published our first CSR report and were
encouraged by the feedback we received from
shareholders and interested parties. This year we
have adopted a different approach by publishing the
report on the GUS website instead of in hard copy
form. A briefer, printed version will be available, on
request, from the Company Secretary’s Office.
A growing number of mainstream City institutions 
has decided to incorporate social responsibility into
corporate governance frameworks. They view CSR in
the context of risks and opportunities and their
impact on shareholder value. Accordingly, these major
institutions want assurance that companies they
invest in are fully aware of the risks and have
effective management systems to deal with them.
The Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) has
responded to this pressure from its members by
developing a set of guidelines, in the form of
disclosures which institutions would expect to see
included in the annual reports of listed companies.
Specifically they refer to disclosures relating to Board
responsibilities and to policies, procedures and
verification. The guidelines refer to social, ethical and
environmental matters (“SEE”) and do not use the 
term CSR.
The GUS disclosures are as follows:-
(a) With regard to the Board
■ The Board takes regular account of the significance
of social, environmental and ethical matters to the
businesses of the Company. The responsibility for
such matters lies with the Company Secretary who
ensures that they feature regularly on the Board
agenda. He is supported in this work by a CSR
Committee which meets under his chairmanship
and which draws on staff with relevant expertise
from across all of the Group’s businesses. It
includes experts in communication, internal audit,
community affairs, consumer rights and
environment. It is supported by external advisers.
■ The section on internal control, which appears
below, includes, inter alia, the Board’s confirmation
that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group. This process includes the
identification and assessment of the significant
risks to the Company’s short and long term 
value arising from SEE matters, as well as the
opportunities to enhance value that may arise
from an appropriate response.
■ The Board receives adequate information to make
this assessment and, in this context, reference
should be made to the key procedures described
below under internal control. Account is taken of
SEE matters in any training programmes deemed
appropriate on the appointment of new directors.
(b) With regard to policies, procedures and verification
■ The Board has identified supply chain issues as an
area of potential risk that might significantly affect
the Company’s short and long term value. GUS has
significant buying power, giving it some degree of
responsibility for the actions of the companies
with which it deals. As GUS takes seriously its
own social responsibility, it is only natural that it
should want those over whom it has influence to
do the same and, in so doing, guard against the
risk to its reputation through a potential association
with undesirable practices. To this end the Board
has approved a set of seven principles that
merchandise suppliers and business partners will
be asked to endorse. These are set out in more
detail in the CSR Report referred to earlier. 38 Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance
■ An important aspect of the Company’s SEE
procedures is that they should be subject to
verification and this is reflected in the Group
Internal Auditor’s membership of the CSR
Committee. However, it is felt that shareholders
would welcome some measure of external
verification and the procedures for verification of
SEE disclosures are focused on work undertaken by
Acona, an independent consultancy practice. This
involves a review which has four principal aspects:-
– Ensuring that GUS has identified the SEE issues
relevant to its business.
– Examining the policies and frameworks for
managing these issues.
– Confirming that data collection systems are
comprehensive and examining the data for
completeness and accuracy.
– Verifying that all claims in the report can be
supported by evidence.
Accountability and Audit
It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should
present a balanced and understandable assessment of
the Company’s position and prospects. In this context,
reference should be made to the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 40, which includes
a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the
Group’s status as a going concern, and to the Report
of the Auditors on page 53, which includes a statement
by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present
a balanced and understandable assessment extends
to interim and other price sensitive public reports and
reports to regulators as well as information required
to be presented by law.
Internal Control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the
Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can provide reasonable, but
not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement
or loss. The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of
the key procedures which have been established to
provide internal control.
Following publication of guidance for directors on
internal control (The Turnbull Guidance) the Board
confirms that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant
risks faced by the Group. These include those relating
to social, environmental and ethical matters. This
process was in place throughout the year under review
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report
with the exception of Homebase, acquired in December
2002, where the process is under review. The process
is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which
reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and
is in accordance with The Turnbull Guidance.
■ Practice to comply with these principles varies by
division. In summary:-
– A Burberry Supplier Code of Conduct has been
developed which has been sent to all suppliers
of finished goods in the international product
range, with all being required to comply. The
finished goods supply base and licensee network
has been evaluated in conjunction with third
party consultants, with the aim of identifying
those products and countries posing the
greatest environmental and social concerns.
During the year, a pilot audit was carried out at
24 manufacturing sites of suppliers, major
licensees and their sub-contractors with the aim
of identifying and subsequently managing issues
around social, ethical and environmental
standards. The audit programme is continuing in
the year ending 31 March 2004.
– The principles have been incorporated into the
standard supply contracts for merchandise
suppliers in ARG. A programme of third-party
audits is well established for manufacturers of
all Argos directly-imported goods. In addition
this programme was extended to suppliers of
ARG Equation. All major suppliers of non-
merchandise products and services
(predominantly UK-based companies) have been
formally notified of the principles by letter.
– The programme in Experian UK focuses primarily
on the environmental performance of the
suppliers in support of Experian’s commitment
to obtaining the environmental accreditation
ISO14001. This supply base presents a much
lower risk of social and labour concerns. 
■ The Company’s policies and procedures for
managing risks to short and long term value
arising from SEE matters are as described below
under “Internal Control”. Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance 39
The key procedures, which operated throughout the
year, are as follows:-
■ Risk assessment:
– The Group clearly sets out its objectives as part
of its medium term planning process. These
objectives are then incorporated as part of the
budgeting and planning cycle and are supported
by the use of both financial and non-financial
key performance indicators. 
– The operating divisions are required to make
presentations on risk to the Audit Committee
which reports regularly to the Group Board on
the risks facing the businesses.
– The detailed assessment of strategic risks is
delegated to the Group Chief Executive. This
review is carried out as part of the annual
budgeting and the monthly reporting and 
re-forecasting cycles.
– The Audit Committee has delegated
responsibility for considering operational,
financial and compliance risks on a regular basis
and receives reports on the controls over these
risks biannually. This includes risks arising from
social, environmental and ethical matters.
■ Control environment and control activities:
– The Group consists of a number of major trading
divisions each with its own management and
control structures. 
– The Group has established procedures for
delegated authority which ensure that decisions
that are significant, either because of the value
or the impact on other parts of the Group, are
taken at an appropriate level.
– The Group has implemented appropriate
strategies to deal with each significant risk that
has been identified. These strategies include not
only internal controls but other approaches such
as insurance, joint ventures and specialised
treasury instruments.
– The divisions operate within a framework of
policies and procedures laid down in organisation
and authority manuals, and personnel are
required to comply with these procedures.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such 
as authorisation levels, segregation of duties,
compliance with legislation and physical and
data security.
■ Information and communication:
– The Group has a comprehensive system of
budgetary control including monthly performance
reviews for each major business and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the
trading divisions and at a high level for the
Group Board.
– On a monthly basis, the achievement of
business objectives, both financial and non-
financial, is assessed using a range of key
performance indicators. These indicators are
reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant
and reliable. 
– There are clear procedures in the major 
trading divisions for employees to report
suspected improprieties.
■ Monitoring:
– A range of procedures is used to monitor the
effective application of internal control in the
Group including control self-assessment,
management confirmation of compliance with
standards and internal audit reviews.
– The internal audit department’s responsibilities
include reporting to the Audit Committee on the
effectiveness of internal control systems
focusing on those areas of greatest financial risk
to the Group. 
– Follow-up procedures ensure there is an
appropriate response to changes in risks 
and controls. 40 Annual Report 2003 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in
conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on
page 53, is made with a view to distinguishing for
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the
directors and of the auditors in relation to the
financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act
1985 to prepare financial statements for each
financial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at
the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss
of the Group for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial
statements, appropriate accounting policies have
been consistently applied, supported by reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all
applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are satisfied that the Group has
adequate resources to meet its operational needs for
the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that
accounting records are kept which disclose, with
reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the
Company and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The Company has a website which contains up to
date information on Group activities and published
financial results. The maintenance and integrity of
this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters 41
Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
Committee and the Company. For the year ended 
31 March 2003 the principal remuneration advisers
were Towers Perrin and Kepler Associates. Other than
remuneration advice, no other services were provided
by Kepler Associates. Towers Perrin provided
administrative support on various share schemes.
The Committee meets at least three times a year 
and holds additional meetings where necessary.
During the year under review, the Committee met 
on five occasions. 
2. Policy Statement 
GUS now has three core businesses that are well
positioned to achieve sustained growth. Key to
success has been a move towards a performance-
oriented culture with a clear link between
remuneration and performance.
The four tenets on which our remuneration structure
is founded are as follows:-
1. Base pay levels are established on a market
competitive basis but no higher than this.
2. Benefits (for example pensions and cars) are
provided on a basis that is appropriate to the local
market in which the director is employed.
3. Performance related incentives provide the
opportunity to deliver substantial rewards for 
high performance.
4. Wherever reasonable, pay is aligned to
shareholders’ interests. This is reflected in the
choice of performance standards applied to
incentive awards and the fact that, for a large part
of the overall incentive package, rewards are
denominated in GUS shares.
Consistent with our philosophy, salaries are set on
the basis of mid-market practice amongst UK
companies of comparable size. Performance related
incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels to
produce a highly leveraged package if our growth
objectives are attained.
The Board presents its report on directors’
remuneration and related matters in compliance with
new Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations
which came into force for the first time this year. The
report includes the following sections:
■ Role and membership of the Remuneration
Committee
■ Remuneration policy and description of GUS’ pay
elements
■ Performance graph illustrating GUS’ performance
against the FTSE100
■ Executive director remuneration
■ Share option and long term incentive plan awards
to executive directors
■ Retirement benefits
■ Service contracts 
1. Remuneration Committee
Both the level and structure of executive directors’
pay and the remuneration of the Chairman are
decided by the Remuneration Committee. The
remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter
reserved for the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee is a Board committee
consisting exclusively of independent non-executive
directors: Lady Patten (Chairman), Sir Alan Rudge and
Oliver Stocken. It has written terms of reference from
the Board which currently specify the major duties to
be as follows:-
■ To make recommendations to the Board, within
these terms of reference, on the Company’s
framework of executive remuneration and its cost,
its aim being to demonstrate that executive
remuneration is set objectively and that executive
directors are fairly rewarded.
■ To determine on behalf of the Board specific
remuneration packages for each of the executive
directors, following the process described below,
together with conditions of employment (including
pension rights), contracts of employment and any
compensation package in the event of the early
termination of a contract.
■ To monitor the remuneration of senior executives
below Main Board level so that it can be 
sensitive to the wider scene especially when
determining annual salary increases for Main
Board executive directors.
■ To establish incentive schemes for executive
directors, set performance criteria and monitor
their performance.
Pay decisions are made on the advice of or proposals
prepared by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive
and the Group Director of Human Resources who are
invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and
when appropriate. In addition, in making its decisions,
the Committee has had direct access to the relevant
external advisers appointed by the Remuneration Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters
42 Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
Performance linkages
Each element in the reward package is designed to support the achievement of different corporate objectives. These are illustrated below:
In fair value terms, the proportion of total pay
(excluding pensions and benefits) which is variable is
equal to approximately 60 per cent.
We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps
to reinforce our growth objectives and is an appropriate
measure for a predominantly retail business.
The pay elements are further explained below:
(a) Base salary
To ascertain the job’s market value, external
remuneration consultants annually review and
provide data about market salary levels, and advise
the Remuneration Committee accordingly. These
market rates are based on peer group data and
derived from the pay position described above. Before
making a final decision on individual salary awards,
the Committee assesses each director’s contribution
to the business, to reflect individual performance.
(b) Annual bonus
To reward annual performance, executive directors
are eligible for an annual incentive with a target of 50
per cent of base salary and a maximum of 100 per
cent of salary for substantially exceeding targets.
Directors are given the opportunity to defer receipt of
their bonus and invest it in GUS shares. The number
of shares acquired on behalf of the executive is
matched on a sliding scale depending on the
achievement against target for the relevant financial
year. The number of matching shares may vary from a
threshold ratio of one half for one, to a maximum of
two for one. The release of these shares is deferred
for three years including the deferred bonus. If an
executive resigns during the three-year period he will
forfeit the right to the matching shares. 
Bonuses are currently awarded for achieving profit
before tax growth and meeting efficient capital 
usage targets. These targets are calibrated using 
a range of benchmarks based on internal and 
external expectations.
(c) Share options
The link to share price provides a built in
performance driver for option holders and further
aligns them with shareholders’ interests. In addition,
the scheme applies a further performance test which
requires EPS to grow by 4 per cent above inflation
when measured over a continuous period of three
years commencing no earlier than the latest financial
year during which the option is granted and
terminating no later than the end of the fifth financial
year after the year in which the option is granted.
Options granted to GUS directors are typical in the UK
market in that they vest three years after grant, are
subject to the performance test and remain exercisable
for seven years after vesting. No director may normally
receive annually an option grant with a total exercise
price of more than one times salary. In exceptional
circumstances the Remuneration Committee has
discretion to grant up to two times salary.
(d) Performance share plan
The primary objective of the performance share plan
is to underpin the longer-term incentive structure by
providing a share-based reward, which is earned only
when the Company out-performs its peers.
GUS’ performance under this plan is assessed in
terms of three-year total shareholder return in relation
to the following group of peer companies: Acxiom,
Boots, Dixons, Equifax, Harte Hanks, Kingfisher,
Marks & Spencer, N. Brown, Next, Pinault Printemps
Redoute, Reed Elsevier, Reuters, Signet and Tesco.
None of the awards will vest if GUS’ total shareholder
return (defined as share price movement plus
reinvested dividends) is below the median return 
for the comparator group.
Element Purpose Performance standard
(a) Base salary Reflects the competitive salary level for the particular job and takes Individual contribution
account of personal contribution and performance.
(b) Annual bonus Rewards the delivery of current operational targets. Profit before tax together with
Provides leveraged opportunity to reward the achievement of current efficient capital usage
performance targets through re-investment of the bonus in GUS shares 
with matching opportunities. 
Aligns with shareholder through delivery of shares.
(c) Share options Direct link to growth objectives through EPS growth hurdle EPS growth
and to value creation through share price increase. 
Aligns with shareholder interests.
(d) Performance Aligns with shareholder interests through delivery of shares. Relative total
share plan Rewards out-performance of peers. shareholder return Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters 43
Once GUS achieves median performance, 40 per cent
of the award will vest, while 100 per cent of the award
will be earned for an upper quartile return or better.
Between median and upper quartile performance,
awards will vest by straight-line interpolation.
For the year to 31 March 2003, the maximum grant
available to directors was 100 per cent of salary,
converted to shares at the price prevailing at the time
the awards were made. The awards were made in
June 2002 and will vest, to the extent that the
performance test is met, in June 2005.
No awards will be released unless the Remuneration
Committee is also satisfied with the Company’s
underlying financial performance over the 
relevant period.
(e) Pensions and other benefits
Pensions are offered in line with local competitive
practice. The retirement age for directors in the UK is
60 under arrangements which broadly provide a
pension of two thirds of final salary (subject to Inland
Revenue limits), life assurance at four times salary and
ill health and dependants’ pensions. Incentive payments
(such as annual bonuses) are not pensionable.
Arrangements are in place to provide pension
benefits to those executive directors affected by the
pensions cap. These are designed to provide pension
benefits in excess of the Inland Revenue cap thereby
placing those directors in broadly the same position
Value of £100 invested in March 1998 - shown on a monthly basis
■ GUS share price
■ FTSE 100
March 1998 March 1999 March 2000 March 2001 March 2002 March 2003
£140
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
£0
as directors whose pension is unaffected by this cap.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of
the arrangements for each director.
Cars are provided on a basis that is consistent with
competitive practice.
Directors, in the UK, in common with all GUS’ UK
employees, are eligible to participate in the
Company’s Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
(f) Service contracts
The Board’s policy over many years has been to limit
service contracts of executive directors to one-year
rolling terms. In the event of termination of the
director’s contract, any compensation payment is
calculated in accordance with normal legal principles,
including the application of mitigation to the extent
which is appropriate to the circumstances of the case.
Historically, there has been one exception to this
policy which the Board justified as being in
shareholders’ interests. As a reflection of local
employment conditions in South Africa, Alan Smart,
Chief Executive of our retailing interest in that country,
had a contract which provided for 24 months’ notice
on the part of both the company and the executive.
These arrangements were varied during the course of
the year under review in that, by letter dated 21
August 2002, the parties agreed that the notice of
termination would be reduced to 12 months on the
part of both the executive and the company.
3. Performance Graph
The following performance graph shows the total
shareholder return (‘TSR’) for GUS versus the FTSE 100
for the last five financial years. 44 Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
4. Directors’ emoluments
2003 2002
£’000 £’000
Total emoluments: salary 1,781 2,053
performance related bonuses 1,628 1,670
taxable benefits in kind 107 93
non-executive directors 548 426
4,064 4,242
Long Term Incentive Plans (‘LTIPs’) – 683
Payments to former directors (Note 1) 41 312
Pension contributions 289 293
Pensions in respect of former directors 398 292
4,792 5,822
The following table shows an analysis of the remuneration of the individual executive directors:
Annual Taxable Total Total
Salary bonus benefits 2003 2002
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Eric Barnes (Note 1) – – – – 60
Victor Barnett (Note 2) 129 – – 129 630
David Bury (Note 3) – – – – 84
Terry Duddy 525 525 24 1,074 1,294
John Peace (Note 9) 650 650 31 1,331 1,551
Alan Smart 89 61 6 156 147
Craig Smith (Note 8) 8 12 – 20 –
David Tyler (Note 9) 380 380 18 778 712
Benefits for executive directors comprise a fully expensed company car or cash equivalent and private medical insurance.
The following table provides details of the emoluments of the Chairman and individual non-executive directors. There were no
taxable benefits other than those disclosed in note 4 on page 45.
2003 2002
£’000 £’000
Sir Victor Blank (Note 4) 296 240
Jonathan Charkham (Note 5) – 10
Lord Harris of Peckham 42 30
Frank Newman (Note 6) 42 10
Lady Patten of Wincanton 57 37
Sir Alan Rudge (Note 7) 54 62
Oliver Stocken 57 37
Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters 45
During the course of the year under review, the Board
considered the level of remuneration paid to the
Chairman and the non-executive directors. It was
decided that the remuneration paid in cash should
remain unchanged but that any increase should be
paid in shares. The new remuneration structure for
non-executive directors is as follows:-
■ Each non-executive director receives a base fee of
£30,000 per annum payable in cash.
■ The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees and the senior independent director
each receive an additional fee of £7,500 per
annum payable in cash.
■ In addition, each non-executive director 
receives 2,500 GUS shares as part of his/her
annual remuneration.
■ The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees now receive an additional 1,500
shares as part of their annual remuneration.
■ Directors are obliged to retain shares awarded
under these arrangements until their retirement
from the Board. Any tax liability connected to
these arrangements is the responsibility of the
individual director.
The following shares were purchased on 25 July 2002
as the first such payment under these new
arrangements. The value reported below is included
within the remuneration reported in the above table:-
Number of Value
Shares £
Lord Harris 2,500 12,129
Frank Newman 2,500 12,129
Lady Patten 4,000 19,406
Sir Alan Rudge 2,500 12,129
Oliver Stocken 4,000 19,406
As part of this review of directors’ remuneration, the
Board approved an increase in Sir Victor Blank’s
remuneration effective from 1 July 2002 and agreed
that 25 per cent of his remuneration be satisfied by
payment in shares, the number so purchased to
remain fixed for a two year period. 15,000 shares
were purchased under this arrangement on 25 July
2002. The value of the shares so purchased, £72,800,
is included within the remuneration reported in the
above table. The shares so acquired are to be
retained by Sir Victor until his retirement from the
Board.
Notes
1. Eric Barnes retired from the Board on 25 July 2001.
He was paid £41,000 during the year under a
consultancy agreement which commenced on 1
August 2001 and was renewed on 15 March 2002.
2. Victor Barnett retired from the Board on 1 July 2002.
3. David Bury retired from the Board on 25 July 2001.
4. Sir Victor Blank’s remuneration of £296,000,
reported above, consists of £30,000 as a 
non-executive director and £266,000 as Chairman.
In addition he has the use of a company car, the
taxable benefit for which in the year under review
was £28,000.
5. Jonathan Charkham retired from the Board on 
25 July 2001.
6. Frank Newman was appointed to the Board on 
10 December 2001.
7. Sir Alan Rudge’s remuneration consists of £49,600
as a non-executive director and £4,200 as Chairman
of the Company’s e-Commerce Developments
Committee. The Committee was disbanded in 
May 2002.
8. Craig Smith was appointed to the Board on 
25 March 2003.
9. John Peace serves as non-executive Chairman and
David Tyler as a non-executive director on the
Board of Burberry Group plc, a listed company in
which GUS retains approximately 77 per cent of
the issued share capital. Neither executive receives
any additional remuneration for such services. 46 Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
5. Share options
Details of options granted to executive directors, under the Company’s executive share option schemes, are set out in the table below:
Phantom share option
Previous reports have disclosed the nature of a “phantom” share option arrangement granted to Victor Barnett who retired from the Board on 
1 July 2002. On exercise, in the period 1 August 2003 to 31 July 2006, Mr Barnett was to have been paid a cash sum equal to any increase in
the value of 164,007 GUS shares over the period 1 August 2000, when the share price was 430p, to the date the option was exercised.
The details of this arrangement have subsequently been varied. The gain was crystallised at the date of the Burberry initial public offering
(‘IPO’) and, instead of being paid in cash, was converted into 83,596 Burberry shares using the IPO price of a Burberry share. The Company
has agreed to match the number of Burberry shares in the ratio 1.3 to 1 with the receipt of the total number of shares deferred for a period
of five years from the date of the Burberry IPO. Mr Barnett can, however, elect to receive the shares sooner at a 10 per cent discount.
Total
Number of Options number of
options at granted Date from options at
1 April 2002 during Exercise which Expiry 31 March
or date of appointment the year price exercisable date 2003
Terry Duddy
07.04.00 93,159 – 375.7p 07.04.03 06.04.10
07.08.00 81,737 – 428.2p 07.08.03 06.08.10
11.06.01 150,155 – 612.7p 11.06.04 10.06.11
06.06.02 – 80,398 653.0p 06.06.05 05.06.12
405,449
John Peace
07.04.00 146,393 – 375.7p 07.04.03 06.04.10
11.06.01 195,854 – 612.7p 11.06.04 10.06.11
06.06.02 _ 99,540 653.0p 06.06.05 05.06.12
441,787
Alan Smart
11.06.01 37,038 – 612.7p 11.06.04 10.06.11
06.06.02 – 14,235 653.0p 06.06.05 05.06.12
51,273
Craig Smith
14.06.00 191,051 – 381.3p 14.06.01 13.06.06
11.06.01 214,048 – 612.7p 11.06.02 10.06.07
06.06.02 198,337 – 653.0p 06.06.03 05.06.08
603,436
David Tyler
09.12.98 43,088 – 580.2p 09.12.01 08.12.08
23.06.99 37,308 – 690.2p 23.06.02 22.06.09
07.04.00 86,505 – 375.7p 07.04.03 06.04.10
11.06.01 114,248 – 612.7p 11.06.04 10.06.11
06.06.02 – 58,192 653.0p 06.06.05 05.06.12
339,341
Options granted to Craig Smith prior to his appointment as a director were granted under the US Stock Option Plan. Any future grants to
Mr Smith will be made under the UK Executive Share Option Scheme.
The exercise prices represent the average of the middle market quotations of a GUS share as derived from the Daily Official List of 
The London Stock Exchange for the three immediately preceding dealing days to the date on which options were granted.
The options may not be exercised unless, during a period of three consecutive financial years, Group earnings per share have increased
by an average of at least 4 per cent per annum more than the Retail Prices Index.
The market price of the shares at the end of the financial year was 487p; the highest and lowest prices during the financial year were
700p and 440p respectively.
Full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe are contained in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests.
No options were exercised by directors during the year under review.
Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters 47
SAYE share option scheme
6. Long term incentive plans – performance share plan
An award under the Company’s Performance Share Plan takes the form of a deferred right to acquire shares at no cost to the participant. 
The vesting of these awards is subject to the performance conditions described on pages 42 and 43.
Awards to present directors under the plan, described on pages 42 and 43, have been as follows:-
7. Co-investment plan
As explained in note (b) on page 42, directors are given the opportunity to defer receipt of their annual bonus and have it invested in GUS
shares. Last year, John Peace, Terry Duddy and David Tyler chose to invest the whole of their bonus. Shares so purchased on their behalf,
applying the bonuses reported in last year’s Annual Report, are included in the table of directors’ interests appearing on page 50. Matching
shares under these arrangements are not released until the expiry of a three-year period and the right to these shares is forfeited if a director
resigns before then. The contingent interests in such matching shares are John Peace (187,900 shares), Terry Duddy (144,056 shares) and
David Tyler (109,608 shares).
Options granted to directors under the Company’s SAYE share option scheme were as follows:-
Number of Date
options at from
31 March 2002 Exercise which Expiry
and 2003 price exercisable date
Sir Victor Blank 4,394 384p 01.05.06 31.10.06
Terry Duddy 4,394 384p 01.05.06 31.10.06
Lord Harris of Peckham  2,522 384p 01.05.04 31.10.04
Lady Patten of Wincanton  2,522 384p 01.05.04 31.10.04
John Peace  4,394 384p 01.05.06 31.10.06
Oliver Stocken  4,394 384p 01.05.06 31.10.06
David Tyler  4,394 384p 01.05.06 31.10.06
Shares
Shares awarded during Total shares
awarded at the year to awarded at
31 March 31 March Vesting 31 March
2002 2003 date 2003
Terry Duddy
07.04.00 74,527 – April 2003
11.06.01 37,538 – June 2004
06.06.02 – 80,398 June 2005
192,463
John Peace
07.04.00 146,393 – April 2003
11.06.01 48,963 – June 2004
06.06.02 – 99,540 June 2005
294,896
Alan Smart
06.06.02 – 14,235 June 2005 14,235
David Tyler
07.04.00 69,204 – April 2003
11.06.01  28,562 – June 2004
06.06.02 – 58,192 June 2005
155,958
100 per cent of the awards made on 7 April 2000 vested on 30 April 2003 following confirmation that the GUS total shareholder return 
for the performance period was in the upper quartile in relation to the total shareholder return of the comparator group and confirmation
from the Remuneration Committee that the underlying financial performance of the Company during the performance period had 
been satisfactory. Accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Additional
pension at pension at value at value at Change pension Transfer
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March in transfer earned to value of the
2003 2002 2003 2002 value 31 March 2003 increase
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Terry Duddy 15 6 101 55 31 8 44
John Peace 362 334 4,161 4,236 (75) 22 253
David Tyler 77 30 637 360 258 46 366
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Victor Barnett 234 228 3,546 3,192 354 2 30
Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000 Rand ‘000
Alan Smart 899 806 7,417 6,329 1,088 93 767
The disclosures in columns (1) to (5) are as required by the Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7A.
Columns (1) and (2) represent the deferred pension to which the directors would have been entitled had they left the Group on 
31 March 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Column (3) is the transfer value of the deferred pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2003 based on factors supplied by the
actuary of the relevant group pension scheme in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11. 
Column (4) is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2002 on the assumption that the director left service at that
date. Victor Barnett retired on 1 July 2002. The figures reported are in relation to accrued pension at age 65, the normal retirement age.
Column (5) is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
Column (6) is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising (i) the accrual rate for the additional service based on the
pensionable salary in force at the year end, and (ii) where appropriate the effect of pay changes in “real” (inflation adjusted) terms on the
pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column (7) is the capital value of the pension in column (6). It represents the amount of cash required to secure that increase in 
accrued pension.
There are four directors for whom retirement benefits are accruing under defined benefit schemes. One director has a money purchase
pension arrangement. The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not entitled to pension benefits from the Company.
The disclosures in columns (6) and (7) are as required by the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules. The requirements of the Listing Rules
differ from those of the Companies Act. The Listing Rules require the additional pension earned over the year to be calculated as the
difference between the pension accrued at the end of the financial year and the pension accrued at the start of the financial year less the
increase in the pension earned over the year solely due to inflation. The change in the transfer value required by the Companies Act will
also be significantly influenced by the assumptions underlying the calculation at the beginning and the end of the financial year and
market conditions.
48 Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
8. Retirement benefits
Victor Barnett, who retired in the year under review, has an unfunded pension arrangement for which provision has been made in the financial
statements. During the year under review an amount of £43,000 was charged against profit in order to provide for this unfunded arrangement.
Terry Duddy is a member of the Argos Pension Scheme which will provide him on retirement at age 60 with a pension of up to two thirds of
the pensions cap subject to Inland Revenue limits. In addition, his contract provides for the choice of a funded or unfunded scheme to
provide benefits above the pensions cap. Mr Duddy has elected to have paid to him a cash sum for investment at his own discretion. The
amount so paid in the year under review was £197,000.
David Tyler’s pension benefits, above the pensions cap, previously were provided for through payments into a funded unapproved retirement
benefit scheme (“FURBS”). However with effect from 1 April 2002, this arrangement was changed so that, in future, such benefits will be
provided through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme after recognising amounts previously invested in a FURBS. The
aggregate invested in the FURBS in the five years to 31 March 2002, when the arrangement ceased, was £478,000. During the year under
review an amount of £629,000 was charged against profit in order to provide for the accumulated unfunded arrangement.
Alan Smart is a member of the pension scheme operated by the Company’s South African subsidiary.
Craig Smith, who was appointed to the Board on 25 March 2003, participates in Experian North America’s 401(k) pension plan, a defined
contribution style arrangement. Contributions to the plan in the year ended 31 March 2003 amounted to $10,000. In addition, instead of
providing Mr Smith with a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the Company pays him an additional cash sum annually in advance for
investment at his discretion. The additional cash sum for 2003/04 was paid in the year ended 31 March 2003 and amounted to $132,000.
The table set out below provides the disclosure of directors’ pension entitlements in respect of benefits from tax exempt schemes and
unfunded arrangements.
Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters 49
9. Directors’ service contracts
The disclosures required by the Regulations in respect of directors’ service contracts are as follows:-
Terry Duddy
Terry Duddy has a service contract, dated 27 July 1999, which provides for twelve months’ notice on the part of the Company and six
months by the executive. The contract ends automatically when Mr Duddy reaches the normal retirement age of 60.
Under the terms of the contract, the Company reserves the option, in its absolute discretion, to terminate the executive’s employment by
paying in lieu of notice. The payment in lieu shall be calculated by reference to basic salary taking into account any pension contributions
and benefits in kind for the duration of the notice period but without taking into account any bonus or incentive payment of any kind.
John Peace
John Peace has a service contract, dated 31 March 2000, which provides for twelve months’ notice on the part of the Company and six
months by the executive. The contract states that it will end automatically when Mr Peace reaches the normal retirement age of 65 but, as
previously reported, the retirement age for directors subsequently was reduced to 60.
Under the terms of the contract, the Company reserves the option, in its absolute discretion, to pay the executive in lieu of the period of
notice or the unexpired balance. The payment will be of an amount equal to basic salary and an amount equal to the value of any benefits in
kind for the duration of the notice period or the unexpired balance and an amount equal to any bonus to which the executive would have
been entitled had he remained in office for the balance of the fixed term or for the notice period or the unexpired balance as the case may
be (such bonus to be computed by reference to the bonus paid in respect of the financial year ended immediately before the termination of
employment). The Company is to use its best endeavours to procure that the executive is treated under the terms of the LTIP and share
option arrangements such that he is vested to the maximum extent possible in LTIP and share options granted to him and will also procure
that the executive is granted augmented benefits in the pension scheme as if he had remained in service for the duration of the notice
period or the unexpired balance.
The contract also contains a clause covering liquidated damages. If, in breach of the terms of the contract, the Company terminates the
executive’s employment then the Company will pay and the executive agrees to accept as liquidated damages, in full and final settlement of
all claims arising from such termination, a sum computed as indicated above. As also indicated above, the Company will use its best
endeavours concerning LTIP , share option and pension arrangements.
Alan Smart
Alan Smart has a service contract the commencement date for which is 1 April 1997 and which, as reported elsewhere, has been varied in
terms of the provision covering periods of notice. Once notice of termination has been given the Company shall continue to pay the
executive’s salary and provide all the benefits provided for in the agreement.
David Tyler
David Tyler has a service contract, dated 3 February 1997, which provides for twelve months’ notice on the part of both the executive and
the Company. The contract will end automatically at normal retirement age which, as reported elsewhere, has been reduced from 65 to 60.
Under the terms of the contract, the Company reserves the option, in its absolute discretion, to terminate the executive’s employment by
paying in lieu of notice. The payment in lieu shall be calculated by reference to basic salary taking into account any pension contributions
and benefits in kind for the duration of the notice period but without taking into account any bonus or incentive payment of any kind.
Craig Smith
Craig Smith has a service contract, dated 27 March 2003, which provides for twelve months’ notice on the part of the Company and six
months by the executive. The contract makes specific provisions for the amounts payable to the executive by the Company. Where
termination is without cause the agreement provides as follows:-
■ Monthly salary to be paid at the same times as the executive would have received such payment had he remained in employment for 
a period of twelve months from the termination.
■ Payment of the annual bonus to which the executive would have been entitled for the bonus period during which the termination 
date occurred as if the level of achievement of target objectives were 100 per cent as of the end of such period, payable in equal
monthly instalments.
■ In accordance with normal practice in the US the contract contains a no mitigation clause.
■ The executive’s stock options under any stock option or similar plan will be exercisable as specified in the relevant plan rules and any
applicable grant agreement. Vesting of stock options will not be accelerated unless provided in the stock option or similar plan rules or
the applicable grant agreement.
Victor Barnett
Victor Barnett, who retired from the Board on 1 July 2002, did not have a written contract of service. A written memorandum of his terms of
employment was available for inspection showing that, in common with other executive directors, its duration was limited to one-year
rolling terms.
Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any time without
compensation. Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms of 3 years and the appointment reviewed at the end of each 3 year term.
As explained elsewhere, it has been agreed that Lord Harris should seek re-election annually in the light of his length of service on the Board. 50 Annual Report 2003 Report on directors’ remuneration and related matters
10.Combined Code
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the principles of good governance and Code of Best
Practice set out in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
11. Shareholding guideline
It is one of the tenets of GUS’ reward strategy that shareholders’ and directors’ interests be aligned. To reinforce this, the Remuneration
Committee expects that, over a period of five years or so, executive directors will build a personal holding in GUS shares. This holding
should be 200,000 shares in the case of the Group Chief Executive and 120,000 shares in the case of other executive directors.
To underpin this commitment, the Committee expects that, while the guideline holding remains unfulfilled, executive directors will not
dispose of any shares vesting to them under any of the GUS incentive plans (save for any disposals necessary to meet tax liabilities arising
from them).
12.Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests, in the Ordinary shares of the Company and in the Ordinary
shares of Burberry Group plc, being a body corporate of the same group, are shown below in sections (i) and (ii). Share options granted to
directors, awards under the Performance Share Plan and the contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment Plan are
shown on pages 46 and 47. Save for the disclosures in relation to Burberry shares, the directors have no interests in the debentures of the
Company or in any shares or debentures of the Company’s subsidiaries.
Company                             Burberry Group plc
1 April 2002 1 April 2002
or date of or date of
31 March 2003 appointment 31 March 2003 appointment
(i) Beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 195,000 100,000 – –
Terry Duddy 60,717 2,500 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 9,700 7,200 – –
Frank Newman 2,500 – – –
Lady Patten of Wincanton 8,370 4,370 – –
John Peace 96,370 30,000 16,000 –
Sir Alan Rudge 6,450 3,950 – –
Alan Smart –– ––
Craig Smith –– ––
Oliver Stocken 22,231 12,621 – –
David Tyler 52,882 20,000 16,000 –
(ii) Non-beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 3,000 3,000 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 25,000 25,000 – –
On behalf of the Board
Lady Patten of Wincanton
Chairman – Remuneration Committee
27 May 2003
Report on directors’ remuneration 
and related matters Annual Report 2003 Corporate social responsibility 51
Corporate social responsibility
Principal issues
The principal CSR issues relating to GUS’ operations are:
■ Labour, environmental and social practices in the
Group’s supply chain.
■ Providing a working environment conducive to the
recruitment and retention of the widest possible
range of talented staff.
■ The protection of consumer privacy and the
proper handling and use of customer information.
■ The provision of a safe and healthy place of work.
■ The need to provide products of the appropriate
quality, including matters such as responsible
product sourcing, product safety and reliability.
■ Ensuring that GUS serves its customers to their
complete satisfaction.
■ A small range of significant environmental issues,
principal among which are our use of energy, the
impact of our transport fleet and our use of bulk
materials such as paper and packaging.
■ The opportunity to develop strong community
relationships in support of our business objectives.
Management approach
Each of these issues applies to a varying extent in the
different GUS divisions. Each GUS division has
therefore over time developed its own approaches to
different aspects of CSR. Generally we see this as
healthy practice in that it ensures that these
approaches suit the particular needs of the division.
However to unify and direct our efforts the GUS Board
has adopted a set of CSR Principles (published
annually in our CSR Report and available online at
www.gusplc.com). Each division can compare their
own approach with the Principles, redirecting and
strengthening activity where required. 
The overall responsibility for CSR at GUS rests 
with David Morris, the Company Secretary. David
ensures that the Board is regularly updated on CSR
matters, and brings major items to the Board for
decision and approval. 
In his management of CSR, David chairs a Steering
Group comprising the relevant individuals from the
Group functions, plus a representative from each of the
major divisions. This Group meets approximately every
two months with the following terms of reference:
■ To remain abreast of external developments and
emerging best practice in the CSR agenda and to
highlight risks and opportunities for the attention
of the Board.
■ To make recommendation to the Board for the
formal approval of Group CSR policies.
■ To monitor implementation of approved CSR
policies across the Group.
■ To set the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI’s”) by
which GUS will measure its progress and to collect
the related divisional data seeking to confirm its
accuracy and reliability.
■ To act as the focal point for external
communications on CSR issues including the
preparation of the CSR report and engagement
meetings with institutional shareholders and other
interested parties.
The Group is supported by a secretary and by
external advisers.
Reporting 
Last year, we published our first CSR Report and were
encouraged by the feedback we received from
shareholders and interested parties. This year we have
adopted a different approach, and will be publishing
the report on the GUS website instead of in hard copy
form. A briefer, printed alternative is available, on
request, from the Company Secretary’s Office.
The key performance indicators used by GUS to
measure and report its CSR activity are set by the CSR
Group. Data is collected from each division to
produce these indicators using a proforma report
supplied in advance.
The reported data comes from a number of sources:
■ embedded business systems (for example human
resources databases in the divisions or customer
management systems).
■ smaller-scale systems in place in particular
functional departments (e.g. pc-based systems for
collating and recording energy use, files on the
progress of supplier audits etc).
■ that collected specifically for the purpose of CSR
Reporting, often from source data within the
division (e.g. total volumes of solid waste
collected from principal sites).
All reported data is signed off by the division in
question and is subject to a verification process as
described in the online CSR Report. 52 Annual Report 2003 Corporate social responsibility
Governance and risk
GUS has adopted a CSR strategy which recognises
that responsible business practice will in the long
term benefit our shareholders. We see the increasing
interest and involvement of non-financial stakeholders
and their changing expectations of GUS as presenting
new risks and opportunities. It is the responsibility of
the Company to understand these expectations
(through dialogue and discussion) to assess, and to
implement change where necessary to minimise risk
and maximise opportunity.
Risks and opportunities relating to CSR are managed
in three ways:
■ Through the work of the CSR Group, whose terms of
reference include monitoring external developments
which present risks and opportunities;
■ Through the use of external advisers (in the fields of
Investor Relations, Communications and CSR) part of
whose remit is to highlight and identify risks; and
■ As part of an annual exercise undertaken by each
division whereby risks to the achievement of
business objectives from all sources (including
CSR) are identified and appropriate control
measures are proposed. The results of this
exercise are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has responded
to pressure from its members by developing a set of
guidelines, in the form of disclosures which institutions
expect to see included in the annual reports of listed
companies. Specifically they refer to disclosures
relating to Board responsibilities and to policies,
procedures and verification concerning social, ethical
and environmental matters (SEE). The GUS disclosures
are found in the Corporate Governance Statement on
pages 34 to 39.
The GUS Charitable Trust
The GUS Charitable Trust (“The Trust”) is the principal
vehicle for the Group’s direct financial support to
community projects. These donations are often
supplemented by in-kind contributions from the
Group divisions such as the donation of goods, the
supply of staff time or the provision of facilities. This
additional giving more than doubles the level of GUS’
donations.
The Trust is managed by three Trustees: Sir Victor
Blank (Chairman), Lady Patten and David Morris. It
focuses on three areas: 
■ Links with universities and educational
establishments in localities in which GUS has a
significant presence;
■ Charities in the field of medical research; and
■ Charities that focus on the needs of children.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, the Trust’s income
from GUS was £963,000. In that year the Trust 
made awards totalling £967,000. Major awards were
as follows:
Socially Responsible Investment
The Group continues to be listed in a number of
Socially Responsible Investment indices, including the
Dow Jones STOXX index and FTSE4Good. We have a
policy of active engagement with financial
stakeholders, which has seen us in dialogue with over
thirty SRI analysts in the last twelve months.
The Group participated in the new Business in the
Community Index of Corporate Responsibility, being
placed roughly in the middle of the companies taking
part. We also continued to participate in the Business
in the Environment Index of Corporate Environmental
Engagement with our score again improving and
satisfactorily reflecting another year of significant
progress.
£’000
Christie Hospital 200
Prostate Cancer – Charter for Action 102
Whizz Kidz 100
Habitat for Humanity 64
Nottingham Trent University – in connection with the 50
Experian Online Statistics Portal
The Healing Foundation 46
NCH Action for Children 30
Galleries of Justice – in connection with the Excellence 30
in Citizenship Education Project
Special Education Awards – Experian North America 25
Schools project – in connection with the recycling of catalogues 21
Down’s Syndrome Association 20
Nottinghamshire Police – in connection with a Life Skills Education Project 20
708
Corporate social responsibility Annual Report 2003 Report of the auditors 53
Report of the auditors
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of GUS plc
We have audited the financial statements which
comprise the Group profit and loss account, the
statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note
of historical cost profits, the reconciliation of movement
in shareholders’ funds, the Group balance sheet, the
Parent Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow
statement and the notes to the financial statements
which have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out in note 1 to the financial statements. We
have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in
the directors’ remuneration report under the headings:
directors’ emoluments, share options, long term
incentive plans, co-investment plan, retirement benefits
and directors’ interests (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual
report, the directors’ remuneration report and the
financial statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and accounting standards are 
set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the
directors’ remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements
and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration
report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for
no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this report is shown
or in to whose hands it may come save where
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the financial statements and the auditable
part of the directors’ remuneration report have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
directors’ report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit,
or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual
report and consider the implications for our report if
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairman’s
statement, the chief executive’s review, the operational
review, the financial review, the directors’ report, the
corporate governance statement, the statement of
directors’ responsibilities, the unaudited part of the
directors’ remuneration report and the corporate
social responsibility report.
We review whether the corporate governance
statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the
seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for
our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of
the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its
risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the auditable part of the directors’
remuneration report. It also includes an assessment of
the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain
all the information and explanations which we
considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that
the financial statements and the auditable part of the
directors’ remuneration report are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the financial statements give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and the
Group at 31 March 2003 and of the profit and
cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
■ the financial statements have  been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
■ those parts of the directors’ remuneration report
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies
Act 1985 have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Manchester
27 May 2003 54 Annual Report 2003 Group profit and loss account 
Group profit and loss account 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2003 2003 2002
Before Exceptional Total
Exceptional Items
Items (Note 5)
Notes £m £m £m £m
Turnover 7,146 – 7,146 6,457
Continuing operations 5,473 – 5,473 4,678
Discontinued operations 1,673 – 1,673 1,779
Cost of sales 4 (4,130) – (4,130) (3,869)
Gross profit 3,016 – 3,016 2,588
Net operating expenses before goodwill charge (2,386) (22) (2,408) (2,064)
Goodwill charge (143) (19) (162) (127)
Net operating expenses 4 (2,529) (41) (2,570) (2,191)
Operating profit 487 (41) 446 397
Continuing operations 452 (22) 430 381
Discontinued operations 35 (19) 16 16
Share of operating profit of BL Universal PLC (joint venture) 26 – 26 25
Share of operating profit of associated undertakings 44 – 44 33
Loss on sale of fixed asset investments in continuing operations ––– (2)
Trading profit 557 (41) 516 453
Profit on Initial Public Offering of Burberry – continuing operations – 161 161 –
Provision for loss on disposal of Home Shopping and 
Reality businesses – discontinued operations – (210) (210) –
Loss on sale of other businesses – continuing operations ––– (6)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 557 (90) 467 447
Net interest 6 (58) (67)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 7 409 380
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 (141) (122)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 9 268 258
Equity minority interests (17) (1)
Profit for the year 251 257
Dividends 10 (232) (217)
Retained profit for the year 19 40
Earnings per share 11
– Basic 25.1p 25.7p
– Diluted 25.0p 25.5p
Earnings per share before amortisation
of goodwill and exceptional items 11
– Basic 47.8p 41.7p
– Diluted 47.5p 41.4p Annual Report 2003 55 
Statement of total recognised gains and losses 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2002
Group* BL Universal Associated Total Group* BL Universal Associated Total
PLC under- PLC under-
(Joint takings (Joint takings
venture) venture)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit for the year 207 5 39 251 223 2 32 257
Revaluation of properties –15 – 15 – (10) – (10)
Currency translation differences 76 – (5) 71 (42) – – (42)
Total recognised gains 
and losses for the year 283 20 34 337 181 (8) 32 205
* Excluding joint venture and associated undertakings.
Note of historical cost profits 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002
£m £m
Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation 409 380
Realisation of property revaluation gains of previous years 8 8
Difference between historical cost depreciation charge and the actual
charge for the year calculated on the revalued amount – 1
Historical cost profit on ordinary activities before taxation 417 389
Historical cost retained profit for the year after taxation and dividends 27 49
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit for the year 251 257
Dividends (232) (217)
19 40
Goodwill credited to reserves 19 4
Shares issued under option schemes 3 2
Shares cancelled on purchase (1) –
Revaluation of properties 15 (10)
Currency translation differences 71 (42)
126 (6)
Opening shareholders’ funds 2,417 2,423
Closing shareholders’ funds 2,543 2,417 56 Annual Report 2003 Group balance sheet
Group balance sheet 
at 31 March 2003
2003 2003 2002 2002
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Goodwill 12 2,436 1,422
Other intangible assets 13 178 192
Tangible assets 14 1,043 847
Investment in joint venture 15
Share of gross assets 405 416
Share of gross liabilities (277) (308)
128 108
Loans to joint venture 82 210 87 195
Other investments 16 128 115
3,995 2,771
Current assets
Stocks 17 853 590
Debtors – due within one year 18 1,803 1,706
– due after more than one year 18 265 200
Securitised receivables 19 – 263
Less: non-recourse borrowings –– (201) 62
Investments 20 109 53
Bank balances and cash 243 203
3,273 2,814
Creditors
Amounts due within one year 21 (2,699) (2,171)
Net current assets 574 643
Total assets less current liabilities 4,569 3,414
Creditors – amounts due after more than one year 22 (1,791) (865)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 24 (138) (126)
Net assets 2,640 2,423
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 25 252 252
Share premium account 26 6 3
Revaluation reserve 26 131 121
Profit and loss account 26 2,154 2,041
Shareholders’ funds 2,543 2,417
Minority interests 97 6
Capital employed 2,640 2,423
Approved by the Board 
on 27 May 2003
John Peace Group Chief Executive
David Tyler Group Finance Director Annual Report 2003 Parent company balance sheet 57 
Parent company balance sheet 
at 31 March 2003
2003 2003 2002 2002
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 14 3 5
Investments in group undertakings 16 3,159 3,159
Investment in joint venture 15
Shares 2 2
Loans 82 84 87 89
Other investments 16 43 32
3,289 3,285
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 18 4,896 4,173
– due after more than one year 18 13 7
Investments 20 8 –
Bank balances and cash 2 8
4,919 4,188
Creditors
Amounts due within one year 21 (4,441) (4,564)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 478 (376)
Total assets less current liabilities 3,767 2,909
Creditors – amounts due after more than one year 22 (1,452) (652)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 24 (26) (36)
Net assets 2,289 2,221
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 25 252 252
Share premium account 26 6 3
Profit and loss account 26 2,031 1,966
Shareholders’ funds 2,289 2,221
Approved by the Board
on 27 May 2003
John Peace Group Chief Executive
David Tyler Group Finance Director 58 Annual Report 2003 Group cash flow statement
Group cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 31(a) 860 540
Dividends received from associated undertakings 24 23
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 31(b) (11) (43)
Taxation (141) (82)
Capital expenditure 31(c) (329) (322)
Financial investment 31(d) (13) (15)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 31(e) (1,241) (34)
Disposal of subsidiaries 31(f) 239 6
Dividends paid (220) (213)
Cash outflow before management of liquid resources and financing (832) (140)
Management of liquid resources 31(g) (134) (18)
Financing – issue of shares 3 2
– purchase of own shares for cancellation (1) –
– change in debt and lease financing 31(h) 934 75
Decrease in cash (30) (81)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Decrease in cash (30) (81)
Cash inflow from movement in debt and lease financing (934) (75)
Cash outflow from movement in liquid resources 134 18
Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows (830) (138)
Finance leases acquired with subsidiary (2) (7)
New finance leases (7) (5)
Exchange movements 37 (4)
Movement in net debt (802) (154)
Net debt at beginning of year 31(i) (1,284) (1,130)
Net debt at end of year 31(i) (2,086) (1,284) Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 59
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
1. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and
in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom which have been applied on a consistent basis with previous
years except as noted below.
The transitional provisions of FRS 17 “Retirement Benefits” applicable to the 2003 reporting period have been adopted by the Group in
these financial statements. In accordance with these transitional arrangements, supplementary disclosures are set out in note 36.
From 1 April 2002, Reality’s external logistics sales and results are reported within Home Shopping UK & Ireland with sales from third party
call centre and related activities reported as part of Experian International. Comparative figures have been restated. For the year ended 31
March 2002, £73m of external logistics sales are shown within Home Shopping UK & Ireland with £23m of sales from third party call centre
and related activities included within Experian International. The profits of £0.5m and net assets of £86m have been included within Home
Shopping UK & Ireland. 
CreditExpert.com, a US consumer credit management business, is now managed by and reported within Experian North America.
Comparative figures have been restated to remove the losses of CreditExpert.com from gusco.com and to reduce the reported profit of
Experian North America by £4.9m. There is no material impact on divisional turnover.
The Group has for several years hedged its investments in subsidiaries outside the UK by a combination of foreign currency borrowings and
forward sales of relevant foreign currencies. The forward premium/discount to spot exchange rates incorporated in these forward sales
contracts reflects the differential between sterling interest rates and the interest rate of the currency concerned. Until 31 March 2002 this
interest rate differential has been taken directly to reserves, along with the changes in value during the year of the currency borrowings,
the forward currency sales and the assets being hedged. For GUS, the most significant overseas assets are in the United States. With US
short term interest rates well below sterling interest rates and the growth in the Group’s forward sales of US dollars, the interest element of
these forward dollar sales, whose effect is to reduce interest costs, has become more significant. Similar issues arise in connection with the
Group’s hedging of its euro and South African rand assets, with euro interest rates slightly below sterling rates and South African interest
rates significantly higher than sterling rates.
With effect from 1 April 2002, the Group is accounting for the forward premium/discount arising on forward currency sales as interest. 
The effect of this change has been to reduce interest expense for the year ended 31 March 2003 by £9m; this consists of a £12m gain from
dollar and euro hedging less a £3m cost of South African hedging. There would have been no material effect if this approach had been
applied in the year ended 31 March 2002.
Compliance with SSAP 19 “Accounting for Investment Properties” requires a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985
relating to the depreciation of investment properties, as explained in the “Tangible fixed assets” note below. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial
year ended 31 March 2003 except for those of Homebase which prepares its financial statements to the end of February to avoid
distortions relating to the timing of Easter and related promotions and trading patterns. The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or
acquired during the year are included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the date of acquisition. 
Turnover
Turnover represents goods and services sold to customers outside the Group, less returns and sales taxes, and earned finance income.
Joint ventures and associated undertakings
The Group’s share of the profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings is included in the Group profit and loss account. Loans to
joint ventures and associated undertakings and the Group’s share of net assets are included in the Group balance sheet. 60 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
1. Accounting policies continued
Tangible fixed assets
Investment properties are revalued annually and included in the balance sheet at their open market value. In accordance with SSAP 19, 
no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties except for leaseholds with less than 20 years to run. This represents a
departure from the Companies Act 1985 requirement concerning the depreciation of fixed assets. Had SSAP 19 not been followed the
depreciation charge for the financial year would not have been material.
As permitted by FRS 15 the Group has adopted a policy of not revaluing trading properties, and previously revalued trading properties are
included at their valuation at 31 March 1996 less depreciation. Certain Home Shopping specialist warehouses, all Argos and Homebase
properties and leasehold trading properties with 20 years or less to run had not previously been revalued and remain at depreciated
historical cost.
Land is not depreciated. Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years by equal annual instalments. Leasehold premises with unexpired
lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated by equal annual instalments over the remaining period of the lease. Plant, vehicles and
equipment are depreciated by equal annual instalments over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset. Equipment on hire
or lease is depreciated over the period of the lease.
Goodwill
For acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings made on or after 1 April 1998,
goodwill (being the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets) is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset. Fair values
are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group. Goodwill arising
on acquisitions is amortised by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition. On the disposal of a business, any
goodwill previously written off against reserves is included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill
Fixed assets and goodwill are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill”. Any
impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in which it occurs.
Other intangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets other than goodwill comprise the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases and are
capitalised under SSAP 13 to recognise these costs over the period of their commercial use. Depreciation is provided by equal annual
instalments on the cost of the assets over 3 to 7 years.
Stocks
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Instalment and hire purchase debtors
The gross margin from sales on extended credit terms is recognised at the time of sale. The finance charges relating to these sales are
included in the profit and loss account as and when instalments are received. The income in the Finance Division under instalment
agreements is credited to the profit and loss account in proportion to the reducing balances outstanding.
Leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets. The interest element of lease rentals is charged to the profit and
loss account over the life of the lease in proportion to the outstanding lease commitment. All other leases are operating leases, and the
annual rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Gross rental income and expenditure in respect of operating leases are recognised on a straight line basis over the periods of the leases. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 61
1. Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency
Assets and liabilities of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the
results are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange. Differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets, profits and
losses at average rates and borrowings designated as hedges are taken to reserves. Foreign currency transactions which are covered by
specific forward exchange contracts are translated into sterling at the contracted exchange rates. The interest differential reflected in
forward contracts is taken to interest expense. Exchange profits and losses which arise from normal trading activities are included in the
profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts. Amounts
payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to net interest expense over the period of the
contract. Forward currency contracts are accounted for as hedges, with the instrument’s impact on profit deferred until the underlying
transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account. Financial instruments hedging the risk on foreign currency assets are revalued at
the balance sheet date and the resulting gain or loss is offset against that arising from the translation of the underlying assets into sterling. 
Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and is
determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing differences reverse. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the
extent that they are expected to be recoverable. Deferred taxation is discounted using the post tax yields to maturity that could be obtained
at the balance sheet date on relevant government bonds with maturity dates similar to those of the deferred taxation assets and liabilities.
Incentive plans
The Group’s share based incentive plans are accounted for in accordance with UITF Abstract 17 “Employee Share Schemes”. The cost of
shares acquired by the Group’s ESOP trusts or the fair market value of the shares at the date of the grant, less any consideration to be
received from the employee, is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the employee’s performance relates. Where
awards are contingent upon future events (other than continued employment) an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being
achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and an appropriate accrual made.
The Group operates Save As You Earn schemes that allow for the grant of share options at a discount to the market price at the date of
the grant. The Group has made use of the exemption under UITF Abstract 17 not to recognise any compensation charge in respect of
these options.
Pension costs 
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world. The two major defined benefit schemes are in the United Kingdom with similar
arrangements being in place for eligible employees in North America, South Africa and the Netherlands. The assets covering these
arrangements are held in independently administered funds.
The Group charges the regular costs of its defined benefit pension schemes against profits on a systematic basis over the service lives of the
pensionable employees. Variation from regular cost is allocated over the expected remaining service lives of current scheme members. Any
difference between the cumulative amounts charged against profit and contributions paid is included as a provision in the balance sheet.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes, the major one being in the United Kingdom with assets held in
independently administered funds. The cost of providing these benefits, recognised in the profit and loss account, comprises the amount 
of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year. 62 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Turnover Profit before taxation Net assets
(Restated) (Restated) (Restated)
(Note 1) (Note 1) (Note 1)
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
2. Divisional analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m
Experian
Experian North America 718 688 171.5 154.6 385 500
Experian International 483 427 84.9 69.6 179 166
1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2 564 666
Argos Retail Group
Argos 3,192 2,847 238.2 204.0 282 269
Homebase 251 – 2.2 – 176 –
Home Shopping – UK & Ireland 1,482 1,607 15.4 33.6 777 710
Financial Services 34 11 4.6 (4.8) 122 112
Home Shopping – Continental Europe 275 238 24.7 22.4 275 214
5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2 1,632 1,305
Burberry 594 499 116.7 90.3 209 208
South African Retailing 114 123 31.8 30.9 156 116
Finance Division 17 29 6.6 15.1 52 275
Property – – 25.9 24.8 210 195
gusco.com 1 1 (2.7) (4.8) – –
7,161 6,470 719.8 635.7 2,823 2,765
Inter-divisional turnover (principally Experian) (15) (13)
7,146 6,457
Central costs (19.3) (17.1)
700.5 618.6
Net interest (Note 6) (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4) 2,436 1,422
Exceptional items (Note 5) (90.1) (72.6) (210) –
Profit before taxation 409.4 380.1
Net borrowings (including non-recourse borrowings) (2,086) (1,485)
Dividends and taxation (286) (257)
Acquisition consideration due (37) (22)
Net assets 2,640 2,423
Included within turnover and profit before taxation of Argos Retail Group shown above, £1,673m (2002 £1,779m) of turnover and £35.3m
(2002 £44.0m) of profit before tax relates to discontinued activities.
The turnover and profit figures for Homebase cover the post acquisition period from 20 December 2002.
The profit before taxation of the Property division represents the Group’s share of the operating profit of the joint venture, BL Universal PLC.
Amortisation of goodwill includes £38m (2002 £5m) relating to Experian, £99m (2002 £89m) relating to Argos Retail Group and £6m 
(2002 £5m) relating to Burberry. The goodwill reported within net assets of £2,436m (2002 £1,422m) includes £363m (2002 £43m)
relating to Experian, £1,950m (2002 £1,284m) relating to Argos Retail Group and £123m (2002 £95m) relating to Burberry. 
Exceptional items include a provision of £210m (2002 nil) for loss on disposal of Home Shopping and Reality businesses and this provision
is shown separately within net assets. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 63 
Turnover by destination Turnover by origin Profit before taxation Net assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
3. Geographical analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom & Ireland 5,338 4,783 5,476 4,976 416.8 367.9 1,781 1,728
Continental Europe 669 635 605 533 47.1 46.6 404 331
North America 860 801 853 794 185.8 161.2 482 592
Rest of World 279 238 212 154 50.8 42.9 156 114
7,146 6,457 7,146 6,457 700.5 618.6 2,823 2,765
Net interest (Note 6) (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4) 2,436 1,422
Exceptional items (Note 5) (90.1) (72.6) (210) –
Profit before taxation 409.4 380.1
Net borrowings (including non-recourse borrowings) (2,086) (1,485)
Dividends and taxation (286) (257)
Acquisition consideration due (37) (22)
Net assets 2,640 2,423
2003 2002
4. Cost of sales and Net operating expenses £m £m
Cost of sales 4,130 3,869
Net operating expenses comprise:
Distribution costs 1,153 865
Administrative expenses (including goodwill £162m (2002 £127m)) 1,417 1,326
2,570 2,191
Cost of sales includes £908m (2002 £986m) in respect of discontinued activities. 
Net operating expenses include £749m (2002 £777m) in respect of discontinued activities of which distribution costs represent £403m
(2002 £523m) and administrative expenses represent £346m (2002 £254m). 
Administrative expenses include an exceptional charge of £41m (2002 £64m) comprising the cost of employee share schemes in
connection with the Initial Public Offering of Burberry of £22m (2002 nil), restructuring costs of nil (2002 £36m) and impairment of
goodwill in discontinued activities of £19m (2002 £28m) (Note 5). 64 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002
5. Exceptional items £m £m
Exceptional items comprise:
Continuing operations
Profit on Initial Public Offering of Burberry 161 –
Cost of employee share schemes in connection with the Initial Public Offering of Burberry (Note 35) (22) –
139 –
Loss on sale of businesses – (6)
Redundancy and other costs incurred in connection with the combination of Argos
and Home Shopping operations and the formation of Reality – (36)
Loss on sale of fixed asset investments – (2)
139 (44)
Discontinued operations
Provision for loss on disposal of Home Shopping and Reality businesses (210) –
Impairment of goodwill (19) (28)
(229) (28)
Exceptional charge (90) (72)
The Initial Public Offering of 22.5% of the ordinary share capital of Burberry Group plc took place on 12 July 2002. The associated exceptional
items comprise the excess of the flotation proceeds, less costs, over the related portion of net assets at that date and the cost of share
schemes designed to secure the retention of employees.
The loss on the sale of fixed asset investments of £2m in 2002 related to the disposal by Experian of internet related investments in the
US, after charging £4m of goodwill previously written off to reserves.
The disposal of Home Shopping and Reality businesses was announced on 27 May 2003. The provision for loss on disposal of Home Shopping
and Reality represents the difference between the sale proceeds of £590m and the net assets to be disposed of which amount to £800m.
The impairment of goodwill in 2003 relates to goodwill, previously written off to reserves, on the closure of Innovations. The impairment
of goodwill charged in 2002 related principally to Reality Solutions.
2003 2002
6. Net interest £m £m
Interest income:
Bank deposits and other 20 23
Interest expense:
Bank loans and overdrafts 33 43
Eurobonds 39 36
Finance leases 1 1
Group share of interest expense of joint venture 15 17
Gross interest expense 88 97
Less: interest charged to cost of sales (10) (7)
78 90
Net interest expense 58 67
Interest charged to cost of sales comprises £7m (2002 £3m) in respect of ARG Financial Services and £3m (2002 £4m) in respect of the
Finance Division. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 65 
2003 2002
7. Profit on ordinary activities before taxation £m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
Operating lease rental expense – land and buildings 168 113
– plant, vehicles and equipment 40 38
Property rental income under operating leases (3) (3)
Net income under finance leases – (2)
Amortisation of goodwill 143 99
Impairment of goodwill 19 28
Amortisation of shares 13 3
Depreciation of tangible and intangible fixed assets – assets owned 226 200
– under finance leases 6 9
Audit fees 2 2
Auditors’ remuneration for non-audit services – accounting, tax and transactions related advice 10 2
– other advice 1 4
Auditors’ remuneration for non-audit services in 2002 did not include £3m of fees in connection with the Burberry IPO which were included
in prepayments at 31 March 2002 and have been written off during the year ended 31 March 2003.
The guidelines covering the use of the Company’s auditors for non-audit services are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 34.
2003 2002
8. Tax on profit on ordinary activities £m £m
(a) Analysis of charge for the year
Current tax:
UK Corporation tax on profits of the year 71 80
Double taxation relief (7) (14)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2) (1)
62 65
Overseas tax 46 47
Group share of tax on profits of joint venture 3 1
Group share of tax on profits of associated undertakings 2 2
Total current tax charge for the year 113 115
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences 46 27
Increase in discount (19) (20)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 –
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 141 122
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of Corporation tax in the UK (30%).
The differences are explained below:
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 409 380
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of Corporation tax in the UK of 30% 123 114
Effects of:
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (2) (1)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 15 9
Goodwill amortisation not deductible for tax purposes 48 38
Tax relief in respect of US goodwill written off to reserves (18) (22)
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (13) (16)
Other permanent differences (27) –
Disposal of businesses 15 –
Other timing differences (28) (7)
Current tax charge for the year 113 115
(c)  Factors that may affect future tax charges
In the foreseeable future, the Group’s tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in
which the business operates. Changes in long term interest rates would affect the discount applied to deferred taxation.
(d) The tax charge includes the following amounts attributable to exceptional items:
Tax relief on cost of employee share schemes in connection with the Initial Public Offering of Burberry 7–
Tax relief on restructuring costs – 11
Tax relief on loss on sale of fixed asset investments – 1
7 12 66 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
9. Profit on ordinary activities after taxation
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation includes £298m (2002 £224m) which is dealt with in the financial statements of the Company. 
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
2003 2002
10. Dividends £m £m
Interim paid – 6.9p per share  (2002   6.5p) 68 65
Final proposed – 16.4p per share  (2002 15.2p) 164 152
Total –23.3p per share  (2002 21.7p) 232 217
2003 2002
11. Basic and diluted earnings per share pence pence
Basic earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 47.8 41.7
Effect of amortisation of goodwill (14.3) (9.9)
Effect of exceptional items (8.4) (6.1)
Basic earnings per share 25.1 25.7
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit for the year of £251m (2002 £257m) divided by the weighted average
number of Ordinary shares in issue of 995.9m (2002 999.8m). Basic earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional
items is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group and is based on profit of £476m (2002 £417m):
2003 2002
£m £m
Earnings before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 476 417
Effect of amortisation of goodwill (142) (99)
Effect of exceptional items (83) (61)
Profit for the year 251 257
2003 2002
m m
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year* 995.9 999.8
Dilutive effect of options outstanding 7.3 7.4
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,003.2 1,007.2
* Excluding those held by The GUS plc ESOP Trust, The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 2 and The GUS plc ESOP Trust No.3.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilutive effect of the exercise of employee share options.
Argos Homebase Other Total
acquisitions
12. Goodwill £m £m £m £m
Group
Cost
At 1 April 2002 1,555 – 245 1,800
Differences on exchange –– 5 5
Additions – 765 385 1,150
Disposals – – (5) (5)
At 31 March 2003 1,555 765 630 2,950
Amortisation
At 1 April 2002 306 – 72 378
Charge for year 78 11 48 137
Impairment of goodwill –– 4 4
Disposals – – (5) (5)
At 31 March 2003 384 11 119 514
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 1,249 – 173 1,422
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 1,171 754 511 2,436
The cumulative amortisation at the balance sheet date includes £27m (2002 £28m) in respect of impairment of goodwill. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 67
Databases
13. Other intangible assets £m
Group
Cost
At 1 April 2002 353
Differences on exchange (24)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 9
Additions 68
Disposals (18)
At 31 March 2003 388
Amortisation
At 1 April 2002 161
Differences on exchange (10)
Charge for year 69
Acquisition of subsidiaries 8
Disposals (18)
At 31 March 2003 210
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 192
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 178
Leasehold properties
Freehold         Plant Assets Total
properties Long Short vehicles & in course of
leasehold leasehold equipment construction
14. Tangible assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2002 352 14 169 1,073 8 1,616
Differences on exchange (4) – (8) (1) – (13)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 10 – 167 413 9 599
Additions 1 – 52 207 27 287
Reclassifications (3) – 7 11 (15) –
Disposals (13) – (11) (63) – (87)
At 31 March 2003 343 14 376 1,640 29 2,402
Cost 291 8 376 1,640 29 2,344
Valuation – trading properties (1996) 48 6 – – – 54
Valuation – investment properties (2003) 4 –––– 4
343 14 376 1,640 29 2,402
Depreciation
At 1 April 2002 63 1 48 657 – 769
Differences on exchange – – (2) 2 – –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 – 102 249 – 352
Reclassifications (1) – – 1 – –
Charge for year 9 1 11 142 – 163
Provision for loss on disposal of Home Shopping 
and Reality businesses 61 7 – 68 – 136
Disposals (3) – (9) (49) – (61)
At 31 March 2003 130 9 150 1,070 – 1,359
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 289 13 121 416 8 847
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 213 5 226 570 29 1,043 68 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
14. Tangible assets continued
Investment properties valued at £4m (2002 £4m) are held for hire under operating leases.
The net book value of plant, vehicles and equipment at 31 March 2003 includes £19m (2002 £12m) acquired under finance leases.
Investment properties of the Group and the Company were revalued as at 31 March 2003 by external valuers, Colliers Conrad Ritblat
Erdman Limited, Chartered Surveyors. This valuation was carried out in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
Appraisal and Valuation Manual. Revalued trading properties are included at their valuation at 31 March 1996 less depreciation. The
valuation at 31 March 1996 was on the basis of open market value for existing use. Other trading properties are included at cost.
On the historical cost basis the net book value of properties carried at valuation is £11m (2002 £12m), comprising cost of £22m 
(2002 £22m) and related depreciation of £11m (2002 £10m).
Freehold Short Plant Total
properties leasehold vehicles &
properties equipment
£m £m £m £m
Company
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2002 3115
Disposals (2) – – (2)
At 31 March 2003 1113
Cost –112
Valuation – investment properties (2003) 1 – – 1
1113
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 3115
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 1113
Investment properties valued at £1m (2002 £3m) are held for hire under operating leases.
There is no material difference between the net book value of properties carried at valuation and their historical cost equivalents. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 69
Shares Loans Total
15. Investment in joint venture £m £m £m
Group
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2002 108 87 195
Share of profit after taxation 5– 5
Share of revaluation of investment properties 15 – 15
Repayment of loans – (5) (5)
At 31 March 2003 128 82 210
The Group holds 50% of the equity share capital of BL Universal PLC. The Group’s share of cumulative retained profits at 31 March 2003 is
£22m (2002 £17m) and its share of the turnover for the year, excluded from Group turnover, is £26m (2002 £27m).
The consolidated balance sheet of BL Universal PLC is as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
Fixed assets 795 813
Current assets 26 19
Creditors – amounts due within one year (56) (72)
Creditors – amounts due after more than one year (506) (541)
Shareholders’ funds 259 219
Attributable to the Group 128 108
The Group’s share of the market value of the debt and derivatives of BL Unversal PLC at 31 March 2003 was £6m more than (2002 £4m less
than) the book value.
Shares Loans Total
£m £m £m
Company
Cost
At 1 April 2002 287 89
Repayment of loans – (5) (5)
At 31 March 2003 282 84
Shares in associated Interests in Other Total
undertakings own shares investments
(note a) (note b) (note c)
16. Fixed asset investments £m £m £m £m
Group
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2002 74 36 11 121
Differences on exchange (5) – (2) (7)
Additions –22 2 24
Share of profit after taxation (after goodwill charge of £2m (2002 nil)) 39 – – 39
Dividends received (24) – – (24)
Disposals (6) – – (6)
At 31 March 2003 78 58 11 147
Amounts written off
At 1 April 2002 –4 2 6
Amortisation of shares –11 2 13
At 31 March 2003 –15 4 19
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 74 32 9 115
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 78 43 7 128 70 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Group Interests
undertakings in own
(note d) shares
(note b)
16. Fixed asset investments continued £m £m
Company
Cost
At 1 April 2002 3,164 36
Additions –22
At 31 March 2003 3,164 58
Amounts written off 
At 1 April 2002 54
Amortisation of own shares –11
At 31 March 2003 515
Net Book Value at 31 March 2002 3,159 32
Net Book Value at 31 March 2003 3,159 43
(a) Shares in associated undertakings
The Group’s share of cumulative retained profits of associated undertakings at 31 March 2003 is £35m (2002 £20m).
The principal associated undertakings are as follows:
Country of Class of %
Name incorporation shares held interest Nature of business
First American Real Estate Solutions USA * 20 Information services
Motorfile Limited Great Britain Ordinary 50 Information services
GUS Finance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 50 Financial services
AAGUS Financial Services Group NV Holland Ordinary 33.3 Consumer lending
* First American Real Estate Solutions is a US partnership. 
GUS Finance Limited is held directly by the Company; other interests in associated undertakings are held by subsidiary undertakings.
(b) Interests in own shares
Interests in own shares held as fixed and current asset investments represents the cost of 12.2m (2002 7.5m) of the Company’s Ordinary
shares (nominal value of £3m (2002 £2m)) which amounts to 1.2% (2002 0.7%) of the called up share capital. These shares have been
acquired by three trusts in the open market using funds provided by the Company principally to meet obligations, including Employer’s
National Insurance, under the Performance Share Plan, Long Term Incentive Plans, the US Stock Option Plan and the Co-Investment Plan. The
trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends in respect of 11.9m (2002 7.5m) Ordinary shares. At 31 March 2003 the market value of
the shares was £59m (2002 £53m). The costs of administering the trusts are charged to the Group profit and loss account.
Of the above 12.2m Ordinary shares held, 10.7m (2002 7.5m) Ordinary shares are held as fixed asset investments by:
(i) The GUS plc ESOP Trust which holds 2.1m (2002 1.8m) Ordinary shares to meet obligations under The GUS plc Performance Share Plan
and The GUS plc Executive Long Term Incentive Plans. These shares may subsequently be transferred to certain directors and senior
executives and the purchase price of the shares is being charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost evenly over the
relevant performance periods.
(ii) The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 2 which holds 7.4m (2002 5.7m) Ordinary shares principally to meet obligations under the US Stock Option
Plan. These shares may be transferred to certain senior executives employed in North America, including one director of the Company.  The
cost to the Company, being the difference between the purchase price and the option price, is being charged to the profit and loss account
so as to spread the cost evenly over the relevant performance periods.
(iii) The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 3 which holds 1.2m (2002 nil) Ordinary shares principally to meet obligations under The GUS plc Co-
Investment Plan. These shares may be subsequently transferred to certain directors and senior executives. The cost of the shares is charged
to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the award is earned.
Of the above 12.2m Ordinary shares held, 1.5m (2002 nil) Ordinary shares are held by The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 3 principally to meet
National Insurance liabilities arising in connection with the Company’s share based incentive plans and accordingly are classified as current
asset investments (see Note 20).
Details of awards and options in respect of the Company’s shares are given in Note 35. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 71
16. Fixed asset investments continued
(c) Other investments
Other investments include investments held by Experian North America of £7m (2002 £9m) and shares in Burberry Group plc held by that
company. At 31 March 2003 the market and redemption value of these investments was £9m (2002 £9m). The shares in Burberry Group plc
held by that company represents the cost of 0.9m ordinary shares (nominal value of £46,073) which amounts to 0.2% of the called up
ordinary share capital of that company. These shares have been acquired by two trusts in the open market using funds provided by
Burberry companies principally to meet obligations in respect of awards made (or proposed at 31 March 2003) to Burberry employees
under an All Employee Share Plan (see Note 35). The trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends in respect of 0.9m ordinary shares.
The cost of these shares has been written off within the cost of employee share schemes in connection with the Initial Public Offering of
Burberry (see Note 5) as they have been or will be gifted unconditionally to Burberry employees. At 31 March 2003 the market value of the
shares was £2m. The costs of administering the trusts are charged to the Group profit and loss account.
(d) Group undertakings
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 91.
2003 2002
17. Stocks £m £m
Group
Raw materials 15 16
Work in progress 9 9
Finished goods 829 565
853 590
There is no significant difference between the replacement cost of stocks and the amounts shown above.
2003 2003 2002 2002
Due within Due after Due within Due after
one year more than one year more than
one year one year
18. Debtors £m £m £m £m
Group
Trade debtors:
Hire purchase debtors 198 53 129 39
Provision for unearned finance charges (26) (6) (21) (6)
172 47 108 33
Instalment debtors 842 153 862 148
Other trade debtors 528 52 462 6
Total trade debtors 1,542 252 1,432 187
Amounts owed by associated undertakings –– 2–
Amount owed by joint venture –– 28 –
Taxation recoverable 41 22
VAT recoverable 41 – 28 –
Prepayments and accrued income 216 12 214 11
1,803 265 1,706 200
Following the closure of General Guarantee to new business, no payments were made during the year (2002 nil) to acquire assets on finance
leases and hire purchase agreements. Collections by the Group and its quasi-subsidiaries, being the aggregate rentals receivable during the
year in respect of the earlier agreements amounted to £141m (2002 £469m) with the balance receivable in subsequent financial years.
2003 2003 2002 2002
Due within Due after Due within Due after
one year more than one year more than
one year one year
£m £m £m £m
Company
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 4,867 – 4,102 –
Amount owed by joint venture –– 28 –
Taxation recoverable 21 – 33 –
Deferred taxation –13 –7
VAT recoverable 1– 1–
Prepayments and accrued income 7– 9–
4,896 13 4,173 7 72 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
19. Securitised receivables
General Guarantee Finance Limited (GGF), the only subsidiary of the Finance Division, had, prior to the decision to close the business during
the year ended 31 March 2001, securitised a significant portion of its debtor book, with the proceeds being used to reduce bank
borrowings. Within current assets, non-recourse borrowings were linked with the securitised element of receivables. Turnover and profit
before taxation were reduced by financing costs in respect of non-recourse borrowings.
There were two major securitisation transactions as follows:
–  In March 1999, GGF sold £421m of hire purchase receivables to a trust of which Automobile Loan Finance (No 1) Limited (ALF1) was a
principal beneficiary.
–  In June 1999, GGF sold £400m of hire purchase receivables to a trust of which Automobile Receivables Transaction (No 1) PLC (ART1)
was a principal beneficiary.
During the year ended 31 March 2003 both securitisation series were dissolved (ALF1 on 19 December 2002 and ART1 on 17 March 2003).
The interest in the securitised receivables was in both cases reduced to nil and the remaining receivables reassigned to GGF . Both ALF1 and
ART1 have been released and discharged from their further obligations under each of the securitisation documents.
The key elements of the balance sheets of ALF1 and ART1, which formed the basis of the linked presentation in the Group balance sheet, were:
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
ALF1 ART1 Total ALF1 ART1 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest in securitised receivables:
Due within one year ––– 80 57 137
Due after more than one year ––– 53 39 92
Bank balances and cash ––– 14 20 34
––– 147 116 263
Amounts owed to Group undertakings ––– – (20) (20)
––– 147 96 243
Non-recourse borrowings:
Due within one year ––– 71 64 135
Due after more than one year ––– 44 22 66
––– 115 86 201
The key elements of the profit and loss accounts of ALF1 and ART1, which form the basis of the linked presentation in the Group profit and
loss account, are:
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
ALF1 ART1 Total ALF1 ART1 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross financial income 336 13 10 23
Gross financial expenses 325 13 9 22
The key elements of the cash flows of ALF1 and ART1 are:
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
ALF1 ART1 Total ALF1 ART1 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash (outflows)/inflows from operating activities (28) (26) (54) 14 12 26
Returns on investments and servicing of finance (4) (4) (8) (16) (12) (28)
Financial investment – movement of interest 
in hire purchase receivables 133 96 229 204 155 359
Financing – repayment of debt (115) (86) (201) (217) (164) (381) Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 73 
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
20. Current asset investments £m £m £m £m
Cost
Listed investments:   Great Britain – interests in own shares 8 – 8 –
Great Britain – interests in other investments 3 1 – –
Overseas 21 17 – –
Unlisted investments: Overseas 7 5 – –
39 23 8 –
Certificates of deposit 70 30 – – 
109 53 8 –
Market and redemption value
Listed investments:   Great Britain – interests in own shares 7 – 7 –
Great Britain – interests in other investments 3 1 – –
Overseas 21 16 – –
Unlisted investments: Overseas 6 5 – –
37 22 7 –
Certificates of deposit 70 30 – –
107 52 7 –
The Interests in own shares comprises a holding of 1.5m (2002 nil) of the Company’s Ordinary shares held to hedge National Insurance
liabilities arising on share based incentive plans (see Note 16). The interests in other listed investments held in Great Britain at 31 March
2003 comprises a holding by Burberry Group plc of 1.4m of its own ordinary shares held to hedge National Insurance liabilities in respect
of certain Burberry share option schemes (see Note 35).
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
21. Creditors – amounts due within one year £m £m £m £m
Loans and overdrafts (Note 23) 747 730 61 289
Obligations under finance leases 8 4 – –
Trade creditors 527 337 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 4,156 4,088
Amounts owed to associated undertakings 4 3 – –
Taxation 48 51 – –
VAT and other taxes payable 88 48 – –
Social security costs 40 34 – –
Accruals 745 539 38 16
Other creditors 328 273 22 19
Proposed final dividend 164 152 164 152
2,699 2,171 4,441 4,564
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
22. Creditors – amounts due after more than one year £m £m £m £m
Loans (Note 23) 1,672 800 1,452 652
Obligations under finance leases:
Repayable in one to two years 6 5 – –
Repayable in two to five years 5 1 – –
Accruals 61 32 – –
Other creditors 47 27 – –
1,791 865 1,452 652 74 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
23. Loans and overdrafts £m £m £m £m
Repayable wholly within five years:
€500m 5.125% Eurobonds 2004 344 304 344 304
€600m 4.125% Eurobonds 2007 413 – 413 –
4.0% Perpetual Securities 72 – – –
4.9% Perpetual Securities 148 – – –
Multi-Currency loans 600 469 50 161
Floating rate unsecured loan notes 2003 – 42 – 42
Other loans  78 135 10 85
Overdrafts 69 84 1 1
1,724 1,034 818 593
Repayable after more than five years:
£350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 348 348 348 348
£350m 5.625% Eurobonds 2013 347 – 347 –
4.9% Perpetual Securities – 148 ––
2,419 1,530 1,513 941
The amounts due to be repaid within five years are repayable as follows:
Within one year 747 730 61 289
Between one and two years 344 – 344 –
Between two and five years 633 304 413 304
1,724 1,034 818 593
The floating rate unsecured loan notes 2003 were issued in the year ended 31 March 1999 in connection with the acquisition of Argos and
the balance outstanding was redeemed at par on 31 March 2003.
Deferred Pensions Total
taxation and similar
obligations
24. Provisions for liabilities and charges £m £m £m
Group
At 1 April 2002 56 70 126
Differences on exchange 2– 2
Profit and loss account 28 36 64
Payments – (47) (47)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (6) – (6)
Transfers (1) – (1)
At 31 March 2003 79 59 138
Pensions
and similar
obligations
£m
Company
At 1 April 2002 36
Profit and loss account 1
Payments (4)
Transfers (7)
At 31 March 2003 26 
Group Group
2003 2002
£m £m
The provision for deferred taxation comprises:
Accelerated capital allowances 9 6
Other timing differences 174 135
Undiscounted provision for deferred taxation 183 141
Discount (104) (85)
Discounted provision for deferred taxation 79 56
Unprovided deferred taxation – property revaluations 2 6
There is no unprovided deferred taxation on property revaluations for the Company (2002 nil). 
The Group’s share of unprovided deferred taxation in respect of property revaluations of BL Universal PLC is £22m (2002 £18m).
Deferred taxation is not provided in respect of profits retained in overseas Group undertakings; were these profits to be distributed to the
UK parent the taxation liability would be approximately £111m (2002 £63m). Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 75 
2003 2002
25. Called up share capital £m £m
Ordinary shares of 25p each
Authorised 313 313
Allotted and fully paid 252 252
At 31 March 2003, 1,007,132,916 Ordinary shares had been allotted, called up and fully paid. During the year ended 31 March 2003,
660,849 Ordinary shares were issued for a consideration of £2,700,860 in connection with the exercise of share options and 190,000
Ordinary shares were cancelled on their purchase by the Company.
Group Company
Share Revaluation Profit Share Profit
premium reserve and loss premium and loss
account account account account
26. Reserves £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2002 3 121 2,041 3 1,966
Goodwill on closure of Innovations – – 19 – –
Differences on exchange – 1 70 – –
Profit for the year –– 19 – 66
Revaluation of property – 17 (2) – –
Revaluation surplus realised on disposals – (8) 8 – –
Premium on shares issued under share option schemes 3 – – 3 –
Reserve movement on shares cancelled on purchase – – (1) – (1)
At 31 March 2003 6 131 2,154 6 2,031
Cumulative goodwill charged to reserves on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 comprises:
Subsidiary Associated Total
undertakings undertakings
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2002 1,732 31 1,763
Goodwill on closure of Innovations (19) – (19)
At 31 March 2003 1,713 31 1,744
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Included in differences on exchange is an exchange gain of £30m (2002 £4m) arising on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and
currency swaps designated as hedges of net investments overseas. This amount includes a gain of £30m (2002 £9m) on the currency
swaps designated as hedges of net investments overseas.
2003 2002
27. Commitments £m £m
(a) Group capital commitments
Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed 63 104
There are no significant commitments relating to the Company. The Group’s share of the capital commitments of BL Universal PLC at
31 March 2003 is £1m (2002 nil).
2003 2003 2002 2002
Land & Plant & Land & Plant &
buildings equipment buildings equipment
(b) Operating lease commitments £m £m £m £m
Group
Annual commitments where the commitment expires:
Within one year 55 11 16
Within two to five years 36 25 35 21
In more than five years 252 – 99 2
293 30 145 39
2003 2002
Land & Land &
buildings buildings
£m £m
Company
Annual commitments where the commitment expires in more than five years 2 2 76 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
28. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed liabilities of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £618m (2002 £351m) including guarantees in respect 
of borrowings by subsidiary undertakings of £618m (2002 £348m).
On 19 February 2003, the Office of Fair Trading ruled that Argos had been involved in price fixing activity with Littlewoods and Hasbro.
As a result, Argos has been fined £17m. An appeal has been lodged against the ruling and no provision has been made in respect of this
fine in the financial statements as, on the basis of advice received, the directors believe that the appeal will be successful.
29. Related party transactions
During the year Experian companies made net sales and recharges to associated undertakings of £20m (2002 £15m).
Amounts receivable from and owed to the joint venture and associated undertakings are shown within notes 18 and 21. 
Experian has built and occupied a new US headquarters facility at Costa Mesa, California. In this connection an amount of £15m ($24m)
was paid in the year ended 31 March 2000 to First American Real Estate Solutions, an associated undertaking of the Group, as escrow
agent. During the year ended 31 March 2001, an amount of £13m ($21m) was released to the vendor; at 31 March 2003 no further
amounts had been released.
30. Foreign currency
The principal exchange rates used were as follows:
Average Closing
2003 2002 2003 2002
US dollar 1.55 1.43 1.58 1.43
South African rand 14.89 13.52 12.48 16.15
Euro 1.55 1.62 1.45 1.64
2003 2002
31. Notes to the Group cash flow statement £m £m
(a) Net cash flow from operating activities
Operating profit 446 397
Depreciation and amortisation charges 407 338
Increase in stocks (51) (23)
Increase in debtors (211) (186)
Increase in creditors 281 22
Decrease in provisions for liabilities and charges (12) (8)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 860 540
(b) Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 20 23
Interest paid (28) (65)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (1) (1)
Dividends paid to minority interests (2) –
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (11) (43)
(c) Capital expenditure
Purchase of fixed assets (347) (332)
Sale of fixed assets 18 10
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure (329) (322)
(d) Financial investment
Purchase of own shares (22) (21)
Purchase of other fixed asset investments (4) (7)
Sale of fixed asset investments 8 7
Loans repaid by BL Universal PLC 5 6
Net cash outflow for financial investment (13) (15) Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 77 
2003 2002
31. Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued £m £m
(e) Acquisition of subsidiaries
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (note (k)) (1,249) (38)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings (note (k)) 8 4
Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries (1,241) (34)
(f) Disposal of subsidiaries
Proceeds of Initial Public Offering of Burberry (note (l)) 239 –
Sale of subsidiary undertakings (note (l)) – 6
Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 239 6
(g) Management of liquid resources
Purchase of investments (49) (8)
Increase in term deposits (other than overnight deposits) (85) (10)
Net cash outflow from management of liquid resources (134) (18)
(h) Financing
Debt due within one year:
Repayment of borrowings (165) (573)
New borrowings 285 516
Debt due after more than one year: 
Repayment of borrowings – (7)
New borrowings 814 148
Capital element of finance lease rental payments – (9)
Net cash inflow from financing 934 75
At Cash Acquisitions Other Exchange At
1 April flow (excluding non-cash movement 31 March
2002 cash and changes 2003
overdrafts)
(i) Analysis of net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand (including overnight deposits) 84 (45) – – – 39
Overdrafts (84) 15––– (69)
– (30) – – – (30)
Debt due after one year (800) (814) – – (58) (1,672)
Debt due within one year (646) (120) – – 88 (678)
Finance leases (10) – (2) (7) – (19)
(1,456) (934) (2) (7) 30 (2,369)
Liquid resources:
Term deposits 119 85––– 204
Current asset investments (including certificates of deposit) 53 49 – – 7 109
172 134 – – 7 313
Total (1,284) (830) (2) (7) 37 (2,086)
Including non-recourse borrowings of nil (2002 £201m), total borrowings at the end of the year were £2,086m (2002 £1,485m).
(j) Major non-cash transactions
During the year the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets with a total capital value at inception of the lease 
of £7m (2002 £5m). 78 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31. Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued
2003 2002
(k) Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Fixed assets 248 15
Current assets:
Stocks 216 2
Debtors 46 12
Bank balances and cash 41 5
Creditors (including overdrafts of £33m (2002 £1m)) (429) (22)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 6 1
128 13
Goodwill 1,150 35
1,278 48
Satisfied by:
Cash 1,232 37
Acquisition expenses 17 1
1,249 38
Deferred consideration 29 10
1,278 48
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year had no material impact on the cash flows of the Group.
2003 2002
Initial Public Sale of
Offering of businesses
Burberry
(l) Disposal of subsidiaries £m £m
Fixed assets – 10
Current assets:
Stocks – 2
Debtors – 7
Creditors – (5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (1)
– 13
Profit on Initial Public Offering of Burberry 162 –
Loss on sale of businesses – (6)
162 7
Satisfied by:
Cash 239 6
Deferred consideration – 1
Creation of minority interest (77) –
162 7
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year ended 31 March 2002 had no material impact on the cash flows of the Group. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 79 
Accounting
Book Fair value policy Fair
value adjustments alignments value
32. Acquisitions £m £m £m £m
Details of significant acquisitions are given in the Directors’ Report on page 32.
(a) Acquisition accounting
The assets and liabilities acquired in the year were as follows:
(i) Homebase
Fixed assets 240 – 3 243
Current assets:
Stocks 229 6 (25) 210
Debtors 28–– 28
Bank balances and cash 33–– 33
Creditors (338) (11) (3) (352)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – 2 6 8
Net assets acquired 192 (3) (19) 170
Goodwill 765
935
Satisfied by:
Cash 929
Acquisition expenses 6
935
(ii) Other acquisitions
Fixed assets 8 (3) – 5
Current assets:
Stocks 14 (8) – 6
Debtors 21 (3) – 18
Bank balances and cash 8–– 8
Creditors (73) (4) – (77)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (4) 2 – (2)
Net assets acquired (26) (16) – (42)
Goodwill 385
343
Satisfied by:
Cash 303
Acquisition expenses 11
Deferred consideration 29
343
(iii) Total
Fixed assets 248 (3) 3 248
Current assets:
Stocks 243 (2) (25) 216
Debtors 49 (3) – 46
Bank balances and cash 41–– 41
Creditors (411) (15) (3) (429)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (4) 4 6 6
Net assets acquired 166 (19) (19) 128
Goodwill 1,150
1,278
Satisfied by:
Cash 1,232
Acquisition expenses 17
Deferred consideration 29
1,278
In view of the proximity of the Homebase acquisition and certain other acquisitions to the Group’s year end and the necessary estimates
involved, the fair value adjustments are on a provisional basis. 80 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
32. Acquisitions continued
Accounting 
Fair value policy
adjustments alignments
(iv) The fair value adjustments and accounting policy alignments comprise: £m £m
Homebase
Fixed assets:
Write back of store impairments –3
Stocks:
Revised basis for calculating provisions for obsolete stocks 6 (25)
Creditors:
Supplier invoices under query (5) (3)
Provisions for dilapidations at depots (6) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges:
Deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments and accounting policy alignments 2 6
Other acquisitions
Fixed assets:
Provision in respect of fixed asset impairments (3) –
Stocks:
Revised basis for calculating provisions for obsolete stocks (8) –
Debtors:
Provision in respect of irrecoverable debtor balances (3) –
Creditors:
Provisions in respect of unrecorded liabilities (4) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges:
Deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments 2–
(19) (19)
(b) Pre-acquisition trading
The profit and loss account of Homebase for the period 3 February 2002 up to the acquisition date of 20 December 2002 comprised:
£m
Turnover 1,271
Profit before interest and taxation (after charging goodwill of £6m) 96
Net interest (31)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 65
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (26)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 39
In the 44 week period from 1 April 2001 to 2 February 2002 the profit after taxation of Homebase was £11m, which was after a charge of
£7m in respect of goodwill. There were no other recognised gains and losses in that period. There were no sales to, or purchases from,
subsidiary undertakings of GUS plc by Homebase in the period from 1 April  2002 up to the acquisition date of 20 December 2002. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 81 
33. Financial instruments
The Financial Review on pages 26 to 29 provides details of the Group’s treasury policy and controls.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 13 in respect of short term debtors and creditors and accordingly,
where permitted by the FRS, details in respect of such debtors and creditors are excluded from the disclosures dealt with in this note.
(a) Currency exposures
At 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 the Group had no material currency exposures after taking account of forward contracts.
(b) Borrowing facilities
At 31 March 2003 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities available of £566m (2002 £381m) of which nil (2002 £139m)
expires within one year of the balance sheet date, £566m (2002 nil) expires between one and two years from the balance sheet date and
nil (2002 £242m) expires more than two years after the balance sheet date. These facilities are in place to enable the Group to finance its
working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes.
(c) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments:
2003 2003 2002 2002
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Fixed asset investments:
Loans to joint venture 82 82 87 87
Other investments 7 9 99
Debtors due after more than one year 265 265 200 200
Securitised receivables – – 62 62
Current asset investments 109 107 53 52
Bank balances and cash 243 243 203 203
Financial assets 706 706 614 613
Loans and overdrafts (2,419) (2,473) (1,530) (1,531)
Finance leases – amounts due within one year (8) (8) (4) (4)
Finance leases – amounts due after more than one year (11) (11) (6) (6)
Other creditors – amounts due after more than one year (108) (108) (59) (59)
(1,840) (1,894) (985) (987)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile:
Interest rate swaps – 38 –15
Currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts (25) (27) 27
The fair values of listed current asset investments and borrowings are based on year end mid-market prices. The fair values of other
financial assets and liabilities and interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using
appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end. The fair value of foreign currency contracts is based on a comparison of the 
contractual and year end exchange rates. 82 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
33. Financial instruments continued
(d) Interest rate risk profile
The returns earned on bank balances, cash and investments are variable, determined by local market conditions.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s other financial assets by currency, after taking account of interest rate swaps, is as follows:
Fixed rate assets
Floating Fixed Financial Total
rate rate assets Weighted Weighted average
assets assets on which average period for which
no interest interest rate rate is fixed
is earned
£m £m £m £m % years
At 31 March 2003
Finance Division – sterling 18 – – 18 – –
European Home Shopping – euro 149 – – 149 – –
South African Retailing – rand – 30 – 30 29 2
Other 4 29 35 68 6 4
Total 171 59 35 265
At 31 March 2002
Finance Division – sterling 72 – – 72 – –
European Home Shopping – euro 129 – – 129 – –
South African Retailing – rand – 23 – 23 23 2
Other 19 1 18 38 – –
Total 220 24 18 262
The floating rate assets earn interest at rates generally determined by local regulation and market conditions.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial liabilities by currency, after taking account of interest rate and currency swaps, is as follows:
Fixed rate liabilities
Floating Fixed Financial Total
rate rate liabilities Weighted Weighted average
financial financial on which average period for which
liabilities liabilities no interest interest rate rate is fixed
is paid
£m £m £m £m % years
At 31 March 2003
Sterling 360 638 37 1,035 5 8
US Dollar 979 1 34 1,014 – –
Rand 82 2 – 84 – –
Euro 30 347 26 403 5 1
Other – – 10 10 – –
Total 1,451 988 107 2,546
At 31 March 2002
Sterling 12 178 21 211 5 4
US Dollar 999 8 8 1,015 – –
Rand 6 1 – 7 – –
Euro 29 307 27 363 5 2
Other – – 3 3 – –
Total 1,046 494 59 1,599
The floating rate liabilities accrue interest at rates generally determined by local regulation and market conditions.
(e) Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities, including finance lease obligations, is as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
In one year or less 755 734
In one to two years 408 31
In two to five years 667 323
In more than five years 716 511
2,546 1,599 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 83
33. Financial instruments continued
(f) Hedging
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are held to hedge a financial asset or liability.
At 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002, the Group had no material deferred foreign currency gains. An analysis of unrecognised gains and
losses on hedging is shown below:
Unrecognised Unrecognised Total
gains losses unrecognised
gains/(losses)
Year ended 31 March 2003 £m £m £m
On hedges at 1 April 2002 20 – 20
Arising before 1 April 2002 and recognised during the year ended 31 March 2003 (3) – (3)
Arising during the year and not included in current year income 21 (2) 19
At 31 March 2003 38 (2) 36
Expected to be recognised in 2004 6 (2) 4
Expected to be recognised thereafter 32 – 32
Year ended 31 March 2002
On hedges at 1 April 2001 30 – 30
Arising before 1 April 2001 and recognised during the year ended 31 March 2002 (14) – (14)
Arising during the year and not included in current year income 4 – 4
At 31 March 2002 20 – 20
Expected to be recognised in 2003 3– 3
Expected to be recognised thereafter 17 – 17
2003 2002
(Restated) (Note 1)
Full time Full time
34. Employees Full time Part time equivalent Full time Part time equivalent
The average number of employees of the Group
during the year was:
Experian
Experian North America 5,653 15 5,667 5,927 5 5,930
Experian International 6,461 978 6,902 5,993 820 6,431
12,114 993 12,569 11,920 825 12,361
Argos Retail Group
Argos 8,516 18,869 15,703 8,262 17,980 14,560
Homebase 1,018 2,005 1,804 –––
Home Shopping – UK & Ireland 12,044 7,140 17,592 12,831 7,043 17,891
Financial Services 65 5 68 50 5 54
Home Shopping – Continental Europe 842 815 1,293 824 736 1,224
22,485 28,834 36,460 21,967 25,764 33,729
Burberry 3,459 386 3,646 2,967 223 3,077
South African Retailing 5,513 486 5,674 5,561 750 5,811
Other 179 1 179 233 1 233
43,750 30,700 58,528 42,648 27,563 55,211
The employee numbers for Homebase cover the period from its acquisition on 20 December 2002 on a pro rata basis. At its balance sheet
date there were 5,926 full time employees and 10,941 part time employees.
2003 2002
The aggregate payroll costs for the Group were as follows: £m £m
Wages and salaries 1,106 1,027
Social security costs 132 120
Other pension costs 57 44
1,295 1,191
Details of the remuneration, shareholdings and share options of the directors are included in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and
Related Matters on pages 41 to 50. 84 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
35. Share options and awards
(a) Options and awards in respect of the Ordinary shares of the Company
(i) Awards under The GUS plc Performance Share Plan and The GUS plc Executive Long Term Incentive Plans
During the year ended 31 March 2003, awards were made under these plans in respect of 641,288 (2002 568,620) Ordinary shares in the
Company. At 31 March 2003 awards in respect of 2,240,617 (2002 1,679,946) Ordinary shares remained outstanding and, as indicated in
Note 16, shares have been purchased by The GUS plc ESOP Trust to meet obligations under these plans. These awards include those
granted to directors, further details of which are contained in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
During the year ended 31 March 2002, 67,558 Ordinary shares were transferred from the Trust to beneficiaries of The GUS plc 
Executive Long Term Incentive Plans. No shares were transferred during the year ended 31 March 2003.
(ii) Awards under The GUS plc Co-Investment Plan
During the year ended 31 March 2003, awards were made under this plan in respect of 1,075,793 (2002 nil) Ordinary shares in the Company.
At 31 March 2003 awards in respect of 1,075,793 (2002 nil) Ordinary shares remained outstanding and, as indicated in Note 16, shares
have been purchased by The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 3 to meet obligations under this plan. These awards include those granted to
directors, further details of which are contained in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
(iii) Options under the 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes 
Unexercised options granted under these schemes in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number Number
of shares of shares Exercise Period of
2003 2002 price exercise
82,814 136,674 580.2p From 09.12.2001 to 08.12.2008
73,165 132,349 690.2p From 23.06.2002 to 22.06.2009
3,279,678 3,688,374 375.7p From 07.04.2003 to 06.04.2010
81,737 81,737 428.2p From 07.08.2003 to 06.08.2010
102,848 192,674 526.0p From 06.12.2003 to 05.12.2010
5,481,264 5,838,017 612.7p From 11.06.2004 to 10.06.2011
398,638 398,638 635.0p From 17.12.2004 to 16.12.2011
4,092,505 – 653.0p From 06.06.2005 to 05.06.2012
1,449,917 – 554.0p From 23.12.2005 to 22.12.2012
15,042,566 10,468,463
These options include those granted to directors of the Company, further details of which are contained in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, 478,676 (2002 379,839) Ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of such share options.
(iv) Options under the US Stock Option Plan 
Unexercised options granted under this scheme in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number Number
of shares of shares Exercise Period of
2003 2002 price exercise
1,928,134 2,256,409 381.3p From 14.06.2001 to 13.06.2006
21,085 32,472 526.0p From 06.12.2001 to 05.12.2006
2,240,119 2,600,011 612.7p From 11.06.2002 to 10.06.2007
2,276,289 – 653.0p From 06.06.2003 to 05.06.2008
105,743 – 554.0p From 23.12.2003 to 22.12.2008
6,571,370 4,888,892
These options include those granted to a director of the Company, further details of which are contained in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
All such options are to be satisfied by the transfer of already issued Ordinary shares and shares have been purchased for this purpose by
The GUS plc ESOP Trust No. 2 (see Note 16). During the year ended 31 March 2003, 185,429 (2002 112,936) Ordinary shares were
transferred from the Trust to beneficiaries on the exercise of options. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 85
35. Share options and awards continued
(v) Options under The GUS plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme, The GUS plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme (Ireland) and 
The GUS plc International Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Unexercised options granted under these schemes in respect of Ordinary shares in the Company are as follows:
Number Number
of shares of shares Exercise Period of
2003 2002 price exercise
4,401,915 5,160,970 384.0p From 01.05.2004 to 31.10.2004
4,381,845 5,073,644 384.0p From 01.05.2006 to 31.10.2006
1,717,140 – 523.0p From 01.09.2005 to 28.02.2006
1,343,361 – 523.0p From 01.09.2007 to 29.02.2008
11,844,261 10,234,614
These options include those granted to directors of the Company, further details of which are contained in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 41 to 50.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, 182,173 (2002 23,753) Ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of such share options. 
(vi) Other share schemes 
At 31 March 2003, £240,000 (2002 nil) was held in savings based share schemes in France and the United States which gives a right to
acquire 58,409 Ordinary shares in the Company.
(b) Options and awards in respect of ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc
(i) The Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan (the “RSP”)
On 11 July 2002 awards in respect of 8,100,198 ordinary shares were made to directors and senior management of Burberry Group plc
under the RSP .
At 31 March 2003 awards in respect of 8,055,198 ordinary shares remained outstanding and shares have been purchased  by the Burberry
Employee Share Ownership Trusts (“ESOT‘s”) to cover the Employer’s National Insurance liability (or overseas equivalent) arising on this plan.
The cost of the RSP shares (including the shares acquired to cover Employer’s National Insurance liability thereon) has been provided for as
an exceptional item in the year ended 31 March 2003. No shares were issued during the year in respect of the RSP .
Participants’ awards were made in the form of options with an exercise price of nil. The unexercised awards granted under this scheme in
respect of ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc are as follows:
Number
of shares Exercise Period of
2003 price exercise
4,027,600 nil From 11.07.2005 to 11.07.2012
2,013,799 nil From 11.07.2006 to 11.07.2012
2,013,799 nil From 11.07.2007 to 11.07.2012
8,055,198
(ii) The Burberry Senior Executive IPO Share Option Scheme (“the IPO Option Scheme”)
On 11 July 2002 awards in respect of 5,955,198 ordinary shares were made to directors and senior management of Burberry Group plc
under the IPO Option Scheme.
At 31 March 2003 awards in respect of 5,830,198 ordinary shares remained outstanding and shares have been purchased by the Burberry
ESOT’s to hedge the Employer’s National Insurance liability that may arise in respect of this scheme. No shares were issued during the year
in respect of the share options granted.
Participants’ awards were made in the form of options with an exercise price equal to the price at IPO of 230 pence per share. The unexercised
awards granted under this scheme in respect of ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc are as follows:
Number
of shares Exercise Period of
2003 price exercise
1,943,399 230.0p From 11.07.2003 to 11.07.2012
1,943,399 230.0p From 11.07.2004 to 11.07.2012
1,943,400 230.0p From 11.07.2005 to 11.07.2012
5,830,198 86 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
35. Share options and awards continued
(iii) All Employee Share Plan
On flotation, all Burberry employees were offered shares in Burberry Group plc under the All Employee Share offer. A total of 413,700
shares with a value of £1m were awarded to employees, and the options over the awards have an exercise price of nil.
At IPO, Burberry Group plc purchased 421,450 shares at an aggregate cost of £1m in respect of these awards and the Employer’s National
Insurance liability (or overseas equivalent) arising thereon. These shares are held in two trusts, The Burberry Group Share Incentive Plan and
the Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust. The shares must be held in trust for between three and five years. The cost of these shares has been
written off as an exceptional item in the year ended 31 March 2003.
At 31 March 2003 there were awards granted and remaining outstanding under this scheme in respect of 400,300 ordinary shares in
Burberry Group plc and these can be exercised from July 2005.
36. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates pension plans in a number of countries around the world and provides post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits to
certain former employees.
Pension arrangements for UK employees are operated principally through two defined benefit schemes (the GUS Scheme and the Argos
Scheme) and the GUS Defined Contribution Scheme. In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and
regulations and funding is provided accordingly. There are defined benefit arrangements in place in the United States of America, South
Africa and The Netherlands with schemes in other countries being either defined contribution or state sponsored schemes.
(a) Pension costs
Pension costs are determined in accordance with SSAP 24 with supplementary disclosures in accordance with the transitional arrangements
of FRS 17.
The total pension cost for the Group was £57m (2002 £44m) of which £14m (2002 £10m) related to overseas plans. Accrued pension costs
in respect of the defined benefit schemes and other pension liabilities amounted to £47m (2002 £58m) and are included in Provisions for
liabilities and charges (Note 24). Accrued pension costs include £30m (2002 £26m) in respect of unfunded liabilities.
The GUS Defined Benefit Scheme
The Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently
administered funds. A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2001 by independent, qualified actuaries, Mercer Human
Resource Consulting Limited, using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions used for SSAP 24 purposes were as follows:
Valuation rate of interest 6.0% per annum
Rate of future earnings growth 4.3% per annum
Pension increases 2.5% per annum
At the valuation date, the market value of the Scheme’s assets was £327m. On the above assumptions, this represented 100% of the value
of benefits that had accrued to members. Since that date the Company has made special contributions to the Scheme of £18m, of which
£10m has been made in the year under review.
The Argos Defined Benefit Scheme
The Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently
administered funds. A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 5 April 2001 by independent, qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt LLP ,
using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions used for SSAP 24 purposes were as follows:
Valuation rate of interest 6.0% per annum
Rate of future earnings growth 4.3% per annum
Pension increases 2.5% per annum
At the valuation date, the market value of the Scheme’s assets was £217m. This represented 98% of the benefits that had accrued to
members. Since that date, and during the year under review, Argos Limited has made a special contribution to the Scheme of £10m. Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 87
36. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The GUS Defined Contribution Scheme
The Scheme was introduced during the year ended 31 March 1999 with the aim of providing pension benefits to those Group employees 
in the United Kingdom who had been ineligible for pension scheme membership. The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those
of the Company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Company to the fund
and amounted to £8m (2002 £8m). Contributions totalling £1m (2002 £1m) were payable to the fund at 31 March 2003 and are included 
in creditors.
(b) Post-retirement healthcare costs
The Group operates schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal scheme relates to former employees in the UK and, under this scheme, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-
retirement healthcare insurance for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 April 1994.
The last full actuarial valuation of the accrued liability in respect of these benefits was carried out as at 31 March 2002 by independent,
qualified actuaries, Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited, using the projected unit method. The assumption which has the most
significant impact on the actuarial valuation is that medical cost inflation will be 6.5% per annum for three years reducing to 4.3% per
annum for the longer term. A provision at 31 March 2003 of £12m (2002 £12m) is included in Provisions for liabilities and charges 
(Note 24).
Premiums paid in the year were £1m (2002 £1m) and the total cost for the Group was £1m (2002 £1m).
(c) Disclosures made in accordance with FRS 17
Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the Group continues to account for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24 but a number
of additional disclosures are required including information in relation to overseas schemes.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, contributions to the Group’s defined benefit schemes amounted to £48m.
The last full valuations of the schemes, which used the projected unit method of valuation, were carried out as follows:
The GUS Defined Benefit Scheme – 31 March 2001
The Argos Defined Benefit Scheme – 5 April 2001
The Lewis Stores Group Pension Fund – 1 January 2000
The Lewis Stores Retirement Fund – 1 January 2000
The Experian Pension Plan (USA) – 31 March 2002
The Experian Information Solutions Inc Supplemental Benefit Plan (USA) – 31 March 2002
The Wehkamp Retirement Plan (Netherlands) – 31 December 2001
The principal assumptions used in these valuations for FRS 17 purposes were as follows:
UK Schemes
GUS Argos GUS Argos
2003 2003 2002 2002
%% %%
Rate of inflation 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
Rate of salary increases 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.3
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
Discount rate 5.5 5.5 6.0 6.0
Overseas Schemes
USA South Africa Netherlands USA South Africa Netherlands
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
%%%%%%
Rate of inflation 2.0 7.0 2.5 2.0 8.0 2.0
Rate of salary increases 4.0 8.0 4.0 4.0 12.5 4.0
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions – 5.0 2.5 – 5.0 1.0
Discount rate 6.5 10.0 5.3 6.5 15.0 6.0 88 Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2003
36. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
Scheme assets and expected rates of return
The assets of the Group’s defined benefit schemes and the expected rates of return are summarised as follows:
UK Overseas UK Overseas
Expected Expected Expected Expected 
long-term long-term long-term long-term
rate of rate of rate of rate of
Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return Fair value return
2003 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2002
£m %pa £m %pa £m %pa £m %pa
Market value of schemes’ assets:
Equities 318 8.5 49 8.5 406 8.0 54 9.8
Fixed interest securities 120 5.0 46 5.0 132 5.0 48 5.4
Property –––– – – 1 18.0
Other 33 4.0 11 4.0 16 5.0 10 8.3
471 7.3 106 6.5 554 7.2 113 7.9
The following amounts were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 17:
UK Overseas
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Market value of schemes’ assets 471 554 106 113
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (710) (599) (127) (111)
(Deficit)/surplus in the schemes (239) (45) (21) 2
Liability for post-retirement healthcare and unfunded pension arrangements (41) (45) (6) (5)
(280) (90) (27) (3)
Related deferred tax assets 84 27 8 1
Net pension liability (196) (63) (19) (2)
Movement in (deficit)/surplus during the year:
UK Overseas
£m £m £m £m
(Deficit)/surplus at 1 April 2002 (45) 2
Movement:
Current service cost (32) (4)
Contributions 47 1
Other finance income 5–
Actuarial loss (214) (194) (20) (23)
Deficit at 31 March 2003 (239) (21)
Disclosure of the effect of the adoption of FRS 17 on the financial statements:
As indicated above, the Group continues to account for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24 but, in accordance with the transitional
requirements of FRS 17, disclosure is required of the amounts that would have been recognised under FRS 17. The disclosures are as follows:
(i) Profit and loss account
If FRS 17 had been adopted in full in the financial statements, the amounts charged in the profit and loss account would have comprised:
UK Overseas
2003 2003
£m £m
Amount charged to operating profit in respect of defined benefit schemes:
Current service cost (32) (4)
Amount credited/(charged) to net interest:
Expected return on schemes’ assets 40 8
Interest on schemes’ liabilities (35) (8)
Amount credited as Other finance income 5– Annual Report 2003 Notes to the financial statements 89 
36. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
(ii) Statement of total recognised gains and losses
If FRS 17 had been adopted in full in the financial statements, the amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
would have comprised:
UK Overseas
2003 2003
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on schemes’ assets (see Note (iv)) (156) (21)
Experience gains and losses arising on the schemes’ liabilities (see Note (iv)) 11 15
Changes in the assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (69) (14)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (214) (20)
(iii) Balance sheet
Of the net pension liability, £40m (2002 £48m) (net of deferred tax) has been recognised in the financial statements under SSAP 24. If FRS 17
had been adopted in full in the financial statements, the Group’s net assets and profit and loss account reserve would have been as follows:
2003 2003 2002 2002
£m £m £m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 2,640 2,423
Elimination of liabilities under SSAP 24 40 48
Net pension liability under FRS 17 (215) (175) (65) (17)
Net assets including net pension liability 2,465 2,406
Profit and loss account reserve per balance sheet 2,154 2,041
Elimination of liabilities under SSAP 24 40 48
Net pension liability under FRS 17 (215) (175) (65) (17)
Profit and loss account reserve including net pension liability 1,979 2,024
UK Overseas
(iv) Experience gains and losses 2003 2003
Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes’ assets:
Amount (£m) (156) (21)
Percentage of schemes’ assets 33.2% 19.8%
Experience gains and losses on schemes’ liabilities:
Amount (£m) 11 15
Percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 1.6% 11.9%
Total amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) (214) (20)
Percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 30.1% 16.1% 90 Annual Report 2003 Five year summary
Five year summary
Earnings and dividends 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Earnings per share 32.1p 27.4p 20.3p 25.7p 25.1p
Basic earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill
and exceptional items 38.8p 34.5p 37.2p 41.7p 47.8p
Dividend per share 20.6p 20.6p 21.0p 21.7p 23.3p
Dividend cover 1.88 1.67 1.77 1.92 2.05
Interest cover 11.6 8.0 7.6 9.3 12.0
Profit by division £m £m £m £m £m
Experian
Experian North America 149 145 156 155 171
Experian International 45 56 61 69 85
194 201 217 224 256
Argos Retail Group
Argos 117 137 161 204 238
Homebase –––– 2
Home Shopping – UK & Ireland 106 15 30 34 15
Financial Services – 14 4 (5) 5
Home Shopping – Continental Europe 30 25 22 22 25
253 191 217 255 285
Burberry 11 22 69 90 117
Other 105 98 58 49 42
563 512 561 618 700
Interest expense (49) (64) (74) (67) (58)
Profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items 
and taxation 514 448 487 552 642
Amortisation of goodwill (73) (79) (92) (99) (143)
Exceptional items 9 11 (85) (72) (90)
Profit before taxation 450 380 310 380 409
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (118) (105) (106) (122) (141)
Profit after taxation 332 275 204 258 268
Equity minority interests – – – (1) (17)
Profit for the year 332 275 204 257 251
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 1,504 1,438 1,516 1,422 2,436
Other fixed assets 1,212 1,238 1,213 1,349 1,559
Trading assets 1,947 1,994 1,627 1,394 1,017
Net borrowings (including non-recourse borrowings) (2,070) (1,931) (1,712) (1,485) (2,086)
Dividends and taxation (196) (273) (221) (257) (286)
Net assets 2,397 2,466 2,423 2,423 2,640 Annual Report 2003 Principal subsidiary undertakings and joint venture 91 
Principal subsidiary undertakings and joint venture
as at 31 March 2003
Incorporated in Great Britain
Experian
Experian Limited
Argos Retail Group
Argos
Argos Limited
Homebase
Homebase Limited
Home Shopping
ARG Equation Limited
Kay & Co. Limited
Morses Limited
Reality Group Limited
White Arrow Express Limited
Financial Services
All Counties Insurance Company Limited
Whiteaway Laidlaw Bank Limited
ARG Card Services Limited
ARG Personal Loans Limited
Burberry
Burberry Group plc
Burberry Limited
The Scotch House Limited
Woodrow-Universal Limited
Finance Division
General Guarantee Finance Limited
Property Joint Venture
BL Universal PLC (50%)*
Incorporated Overseas
Experian
EUROPE
Experian France S.A.
CreditInform AS (Norway)
Nordic Info Group A/S (Denmark)
NIG A/S (Denmark)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ConsumerInfo.com
Experian Information Solutions Inc.
Experian Services Corporation
Experian Marketing Solutions Inc.
Home Shopping
THE NETHERLANDS
Wehkamp B.V.
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
GUS Ireland Limited
SWEDEN
Halens Postorder A.B.
Burberry
ASIA PACIFIC
Burberry – Australia
– Hong Kong
– Korea
– Singapore
EUROPE
Burberry – France
– Germany
– Italy
– Spain
– Switzerland
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Burberry USA
South African Retailing
SOUTH AFRICA
Lewis Stores (Pty) Limited
Following the Initial Public Offering of 23% of the ordinary share capital of Burberry Group plc in July 2002, GUS has a 77% 
interest in Burberry Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, all of which operate in the country in which they are incorporated. 
All other principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and also operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Non-operating intermediate holding companies are excluded from the above.
Details of interests in associated undertakings are given within Note 16 on page 70.
* Held directly by GUS plc. 92 Annual Report 2003 Shareholder information
Shareholder information 
Ordinary shareholders
There were 51,467 holders of Ordinary shares at 31 March 2003 and their holdings can be analysed as follows:
Number of Percentage Number of Percentage
shareholders of total number Ordinary shares of Ordinary
of shareholders ‘000s shares
Over 1,000,000 173 0.3 697,550 69.3
100,001 – 1,000,000 565 1.1 179,781 17.8
10,001 – 100,000 1,831 3.6 54,321 5.4
5,001 – 10,000 2,402 4.7 16,833 1.7
2,001 – 5,000 8,873 17.2 27,609 2.7
1 – 2,000 37,623 73.1 31,039 3.1
51,467 100.0 1,007,133 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
Number of Percentage Number of Percentage
shareholders of total number Ordinary shares of Ordinary
of shareholders ‘000s shares
Corporates 12,317 23.9 931,042 92.4
Individuals 39,150 76.1 76,091 7.6
51,467 100.0 1,007,133 100.0
Registrar
Enquiries concerning holdings of the Company’s shares and notification of the holder’s change of address should be referred to Lloyds TSB
Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0870 600 3987. In addition, Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a range of
shareholder information on line at www.shareview.co.uk. A text phone facility for those with hearing difficulties is available by telephoning
0870 600 3950.
Share price information
The latest GUS plc share price is available on Ceefax and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, Telephone: 0906 843 2740 (calls
charged at 60p per minute).
Internet
A full range of investor relations information on GUS plc, including London Stock Exchange Announcements, latest share price, dividend
history and downloadable registrar forms is available at www.gusplc.com. A webcast of the results presentation given to analysts and fund
managers by John Peace (Group Chief Executive), David Tyler (Group Finance Director), Terry Duddy (Chief Executive, Argos Retail Group)
and Craig Smith (Chairman of Experian), together with the slides accompanying that presentation, can be found on the website.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The GUS Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to  purchase GUS plc shares. Shareholders
who wish to participate in the DRIP for the first time, in respect of the final dividend to be paid on 8 August 2003, should return a
completed and signed DRIP mandate form to be received by the Registrars, by no later than 18 July 2003. For further details please contact
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA or telephone on 0870 241 3018.
Share dealing facility
Existing or potential investors can buy or sell GUS Ordinary shares using a postal dealing service provided by Cazenove & Co., whose 
contact details are:
Cazenove & Co.
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Telephone: 020 7606 1768
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting and first quarter trading update 23 July 2003
Final dividend record date 11 July 2003
Final dividend to be paid 8 August 2003
First half trading update 15 October 2003
Interim results announcement 20 November 2003
Third quarter trading update 14 January 2004
Second half trading update April 2004
Preliminary announcement of annual results 25 May 2004
Registered office
GUS plc
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester M60 1XA
Telephone: 44 (0)161 273 8282  Fax: 44 (0)161 277 4056 Design and production by Accrue*
The paper used for this report uses
ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulps
supplied by manufacturers with
environment-friendly and sustainable
reforestation policies. The report has
been printed using soya-based inks
and the printing process conforms 
to ISO 14001. GUS (Corporate Office)
One Stanhope Gate
London W1K 1AF
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7495 0070
F +44 (0)20 7495 1567
www.gusplc.com
GUS (Registered Office)
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester M60 1XA
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)161 273 8282  
F +44 (0)161 277 4056
Experian North America
475 Anton Boulevard
Costa Mesa CA 92626
United States
T +1 714 830 7600 
F +1 714 830 2575
www.experian.com
Experian International
Talbot House
Talbot Street
Nottingham NG1 5HF
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)115 941 0888
F +44 (0)115 934 4905
www.experian.com
Argos Retail Group
489-499 Avebury Boulevard
Saxon Gate West
Central Milton Keynes MK9 2NW 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)1908 690333
F +44 (0)1908 692301
Burberry
18-22 Haymarket
London SW1Y 4DQ
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7968 0000
www.burberry.com Delivering through leadership
Annual Review and 
Summary Financial Statement 2003 GUS is delivering long-term shareholder
value by focusing on businesses with
above average growth potential and by
establishing leadership positions in our
chosen markets.
Contents
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief executive’s review
16 Board of directors
18 Profit and loss account
20 Cash flow statement and balance sheet
21 Summary directors’ report
23 Summary directors’ remuneration report
24 Shareholder information
In December 2002, GUS
acquired Homebase, the UK’s
second largest brand in the 
do-it-yourself market. Experian operating profit
£ million
 201 
 00  01  02  03 
 217 
 224
 256 
ARG operating profit
£ million
 192 
 00  01  02  03 
 21 7 
 255 
 285 
kExperian
A leading global business solutions company.
Experian helps organisations to target, acquire and
manage new customers and develop successful
customer relationships.
The company does this by leveraging its:
  specialist strategic knowledge
  skills in managing client processes
  ability to develop analytical solutions
  ownership of core data assets
Experian has become a strategic partner for more
than 40,000 clients across diverse industries,
including financial services, telecommunications,
healthcare, insurance, retailing, automotive,
manufacturing, leisure, utilities, property, e-commerce
and government.
The company employs 13,100 people, supporting
clients in more than 60 countries.  Experian’s
headquarters are in Costa Mesa, California and
Nottingham, UK. 
Argos Retail Group
The UK’s leading general merchandise retailing group.
Argos Retail Group (ARG) is focused on providing
customers with choice, value and convenience.
The company operates market-leading brands:
  Argos for general merchandise
  Homebase for DIY and home furnishings
  Wehkamp, the leading home shopping catalogue 
in the Netherlands
  A range of financial services, including the Argos
store card
The combination of stores, catalogues, websites 
and home delivery options enables customers to
choose the shopping experience that suits their
particular lifestyle.
ARG’s competitive advantages lie in its:
  purchasing scale
  multiple brands
  multiple channels
The company employs 45,700 people in the UK 
and Holland.
Group overview
GUS is a retail and business services group. We provide
information and customer relationship management
services through Experian, general merchandise
retailing through Argos Retail Group and luxury goods
through a majority shareholding in Burberry Group plc.
We continue to reposition the Group around these
major businesses.
April 2002: acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com 
July 2002: partial flotation of Burberry 
December 2002: acquisition of Homebase
January 2003: acquisition of Nordic Info Group
March 2003: acquisition of outstanding stakes in Scorex
May 2003: disposal of Home Shopping and Reality
May 2003: planned partial flotation of South African
Retailing during calendar 2004 Burberry operating profit
£ million
 22 
 00  01  02  03 
 70 
 90 
 11 7 
Other businesses operating profit
£ million
 105 
 00  01  02  03 
 68 
 66 
 62 
Burberry
A leading international luxury goods business. 
Burberry designs and markets a comprehensive 
range of clothing and accessories, which appeal to 
style-conscious consumers around the world. 
Burberry products are sold through 132 
directly-operated stores, concessions and outlets, 
and through partnerships with key retailers in the
world’s leading economies.
The company employs 3,600 people around 
the world. 
Burberry’s principal strengths are its:
  unique history and positioning
  international recognition and broad appeal
  diversified distribution channels
  multiple product and geographic 
growth opportunities
Other businesses
Other GUS businesses include principally South
African Retailing, a leading retailer operating out of
stores throughout Southern Africa.
  398 Lewis stores offering a wide range of
domestic furniture and appliances
  45 Best Electric stores offering specialist electronic
goods and appliances
The company employs 6,000 people.
Profit by Division
Year ended March 2000
  Experian
  Argos Retail Group
  Burberry
  Other
 39% 
 4% 
 20% 
 37% 
Proforma profit by Division*
Year ended March 2003
  Experian
  Argos Retail Group
  Burberry
  Other
* Including a full year of 
   Homebase and excluding 
   Home Shopping and Reality
 33% 
 15% 
 44% 
 8%  Annual Review 2003 Financial highlights 1
Financial highlights
for the years ended 31 March 2003 2002 Change
Group sales £7.1bn £6.5bn up 11%
Underlying group profit before tax
1
£642m £552m up 16%
Adjusted earnings per share
1
47.8p 41.7p up 15%
Dividend per share 23.3p 21.7p up 7%
1
Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items
Group sales
£ million
 5,658 
 00  01  02  03 
 6,041 
 6,457 
 7,146  642 
Underlying profit before tax
£ million
 448 
 00  01  02  03 
 487 
 552 
 618
Free cash flow
£ million
 272 
 00  01  02  03 
 481  478 
 47 .8
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share
pence
 34.5 
 00  01  02  03 
 37       .2 
 41.7 
 23.3
Dividend per share
pence
 20.6 
 00  01  02  03 
 21.0 
 21.7 
GUS share price performance
  GUS share price
  FTSE General Retailers sector
  FTSE 100
1April 2000 30 May 2003
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
-25%
-50%
-75%
800p
700p
600p
500p
400p
300p
200p
100p
  Delivering growth in sales and profits 
across the Group
  16% increase in profit before amortisation of
goodwill, exceptional items and taxation to
£642m (2002: £552m)
  Profit before tax increased to £409m 
(2002: £380m)
  15% increase in basic earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items to
47.8p (2002: 41.7p)
  Basic earnings per share 25.1p (2002: 25.7p)
  7% increase in full year dividend to 23.3p 
(2002: 21.7p) Chairman’s statement: GUS has had
another successful year, with profits 
up 16% to £642m. 
Our aim is to grow the value of these businesses for
the benefit of shareholders. GUS acts as strategic
architect in ensuring that each business has clear
plans, high quality management and a strong capital
resource. ARG, Experian and Burberry are each
pursuing exciting strategies, with considerable scope
for development over the next few years.
During the last year we have continued to reshape the
GUS portfolio around these major businesses. The
most notable changes have been the acquisition of
Homebase, a leading retailer in the growing DIY and
home furnishings market; the disposal of our Home
Shopping and Reality businesses; and the partial
flotation of Burberry. Experian has also strengthened
its position in the marketplace with a new global
management structure and the strategically important
acquisitions of Scorex, ConsumerInfo.com, Nordic Info
Group and 1 1 affiliate bureaux in the United States.
Our commitment to shareholders is to create long-
term value at all times and the Board continues to
review options in this regard. In floating Burberry, for
example, we recognised that it was the right time in
the growth and development of this business for part
of its ownership to be held more widely. Our decision
to arrange a partial IPO for our South African Retailing
business is another example of how we are realising
value for the benefit of shareholders. 
Board change
I believe that we have a strong Board at GUS, with an
excellent mix of skills and experience. Just as
important is our ability to work together as a team.
In March 2003, the Board was further strengthened by
the addition of Craig Smith, who had recently been
appointed Chairman of Experian worldwide. Craig
joined Experian in 2000 as CEO of Experian North
America, where he played a key role in successfully
repositioning the business. I am delighted to welcome
him to the Board. 
This is the third consecutive year of growth and
reflects the strength of the Group’s main businesses,
each of which has reported increased sales and
profits. Earnings per share rose by 15% to 47.8p 
and cash flow was strong.
Our continued progress has been achieved in the face
of challenging conditions in many of our major
markets. This progress has been greatly to the credit
of GUS people at all levels and I would like to thank
them for their tremendous endeavour. 
The Board has declared a final dividend of 16.4p,
making 23.3p for the year (2002: 21.7p).
Group strategy
GUS is committed to the growth and development of
three major businesses: Experian, Argos Retail Group
(ARG) and Burberry. Each of these businesses is
already – or has the potential to be – the leader in its
chosen sectors. Furthermore, the markets in which
they operate have significant growth characteristics.
2 Annual Review 2003 Chairman’s statement Governance 
The issue of corporate governance has been a
recurring theme in the world’s stock markets during
the year. The Board of GUS is committed to being as
transparent as any business can reasonably be and is
determined to fulfil shareholders’ expectations on
matters of disclosure. 
At the same time, we recognise that the role of
governance embraces a much wider remit. It is about
having clear strategies, attracting the best talent,
encouraging creativity and commitment, fulfilling our
responsibilities to the community and maintaining the
highest standards of integrity. Together, these are
prerequisites for corporate success that enable us to
create value for our shareholders through sustained
profitable growth. 
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman
27 May 2003
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman
Annual Review 2003 Chairman’s statement 3  4 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
Financial summary
Sales Profit before taxation
2003 2002 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Experian 1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2
Argos Retail Group 5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2
Burberry 594 499 116.7 90.3
Other 117 140 42.3 48.9
Total 7,146 6,457 700.5 618.6
Net interest (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation
of goodwill, exceptional items
and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4)
Exceptional items (90.1) (72.6)
Profit before taxation 409.4 380.1
EPS before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items 47.8p 41.7p
Reported EPS 25.1p 25.7p
Continued sales and profits growth
This has been our third consecutive year of sales and
profit growth. Sales in the year to March 2003 increased
by 11% and profit before amortisation of goodwill,
exceptional items and taxation by 16%. Experian, Argos
and Burberry all reported record profits.
The year also saw strong operating cash flow, as a
result of the profit growth and tight control of costs
and working capital.
Increased focus
We have continued to reposition GUS around our major
businesses – Experian, Argos Retail Group and Burberry.
The partial flotation of Burberry in July 2002 enabled
us to establish an independent market value for this
business and raised £239m for GUS. The flotation was
successfully undertaken in difficult market conditions,
reflecting Burberry’s strong financial momentum. GUS
has retained a 77.5% stake in Burberry. 
Our property joint venture with British Land and our
vehicle financing business continued to be wound
down, releasing over £200m during the year.
Since the year-end, we have disposed of our home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with our logistics and customer care
business, Reality. These operations were sold to
March U.K. Limited for approximately £590m.
We have also announced our intention, subject to
market conditions, to arrange a partial IPO for our
South African Retailing business during calendar year
2004. A partial IPO will enable GUS to realise some
value, while enhancing the development opportunities
for our South African business. 
Chief executive’ s review: GUS has delivered
another strong financial performance. 
Our major businesses are positioned for
long-term growth and sector leadership. Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 5
Strong investment
The release of capital during the year enabled us to
make significant investments in our major businesses,
including several acquisitions that will enhance their
growth prospects. The largest of these was Homebase,
which is the number two brand in the UK’s do-it-yourself
market. It has taken ARG into an important growth
sector and provided the potential for substantial
operational synergies. 
Experian’s acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, which
supplies online credit information to consumers in
North America, has firmly established Experian as the
leading direct-to-consumer player in its marketplace.
Experian in North America has also continued to
acquire its affiliated regional credit bureaux, in order
to gain a greater share of the value chain for credit
products. Internationally, Experian strengthened its
position with the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, a
leading information company in Denmark and Norway.
Experian also acquired its outstanding stakes in
Scorex to create a global decision solutions business. 
Burberry opened or refurbished 12 new stores,
including flagship stores in New York, London
(Knightsbridge) and Barcelona. The company also
acquired its Korean distributor and, in doing so,
completed the programme to take direct control 
of key Asian markets outside Japan. 
Growth opportunities
The major businesses of GUS now have a consistent
track record of sales and profit growth. They are
focused on growing markets and are well positioned
in those markets. They are also attracting people of
exceptional talent.
Experian is a leader in the growing international
market for business solutions, offering the broadest
range of information and services in its sector. ARG is
the UK’s leading general merchandise retailer.
Burberry continues to consolidate its position as a
leading luxury brand.
Over the next few pages you will read about the
progress that these businesses have made during the
last year, together with the strategies that are being
put in place to ensure their long-term success.
John Peace 
Group Chief Executive 6 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian
Experian helps organisations to target, acquire and
manage new customers and develop successful
customer relationships. Its clients operate in a diverse
range of sectors, including financial services,
telecommunications, healthcare, insurance, retailing,
automotive and government. 
Experian delivered global sales growth of 12% and
profit growth of 20% last year, at constant exchange
rates. This was driven by the improving underlying
sales performance of Experian North America, the
continuing strong progress of Experian International
and the benefit of strategic acquisitions. 
Throughout the year, Experian built on its leading
positions in the US and UK, while extending its reach
internationally. A number of key acquisitions were
made to enhance Experian’s global product range 
and to support its development within important
growth markets. 
Changes were also made in the global management
structure to assist Experian in leveraging resources on
a worldwide scale. In March 2003, Craig Smith,
formerly CEO of Experian North America, became
Chairman of Experian worldwide. He was succeeded
by Don Robert, formerly Chief Operating Officer in
North America. 
John Saunders, who continued as CEO of Experian
International, took on responsibility for Experian’s
global decision solutions business. This followed the
acquisition of Experian’s remaining stakes in Scorex,
an international provider of credit solutions. Experian
had been operating joint ventures with Scorex since
1996 and will now be able to develop an integrated
product range for decision solutions, available across
a wide range of markets. 
Experian North America
Experian North America performed strongly during
the year, despite some challenging market conditions.
There were productivity gains and major new
contracts throughout the business, with sales up 13%
and profits up 20% in dollars. 
Excluding the acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, credit
information and solutions sales increased 8%, helped
by demand from clients in interest rate sensitive
sectors, especially the mortgage refinancing market. 
Experian has further strengthened its
position as a leading global business
solutions company, providing strategic
support to clients in over 60 countries.
Demand for fraud protection systems was particularly
strong, with clients of Experian’s National Fraud
Database reporting a dramatic reduction in losses
after incorporating the database within their credit
application processing systems. The ability to
authenticate consumers over the Internet was another
growth area, allowing clients such as VISA, Dell
Financial Services, First American Payment Processing
and Yahoo to reduce fraud and improve each
customer’s online experience. 
Experian also embarked on a major programme to
acquire its 38 affiliate credit bureaux. This will
provide Experian with direct control of an important
distribution channel and ensure that the clients of
these affiliates have direct access to the full range of
Experian products. 
Demand for marketing information and solutions
continued to be affected by difficult market conditions,
with most clients reducing expenditure in this area.
Despite this, sales were on an improving trend
throughout the year and up 4% during the last six
months. AOL, Citigroup and Dell were among the
companies that awarded major contracts to Experian in
order to enhance their ability to reach new customers.
There was particularly strong demand for Truvue, the
Experian customer management solution, which
enables businesses to integrate the records of
different business units or databases in order to
create a single view of each customer. 
Direct-to-consumer sales now account for 11% of
Experian sales in North America, compared to less
than 1% in the previous year, following the acquisition
of ConsumerInfo.com. This business provides
consumers with online access to their credit reports
and has been combined with Experian’s own direct-to-
consumer operation to create the clear leader in this
growing market. 
The recent acquisition of PromiseMark will enable
Experian to strengthen its direct-to-consumer offer
even further by providing insurance against identity
theft, one of the fastest growing crimes in the US. 
The FARES joint venture, which is Experian’s chosen
way of competing in the real estate information
sector, had another good year and continued to
benefit from strong activity in the mortgage-
refinancing market. Experian’s 20% share of FARES
profits was up $6m to almost $50m.
Experian operating profit
£ million
 201 
 00  01  02  03 
 217 
 224
 256 
Some major clients: 
ABN AMRO Bank 
Abbey National
Alliance & Leicester 
AOL Time Warner 
Bank One 
Bank of America 
Barclays 
BBC News Online 
BMW 
BNP Paribas
Capital One 
Chase 
Citigroup 
Commerzbank
Egg 
First American 
Ford 
HBOS/Bank of Scotland
Household 
Lloyds TSB
MBNA
McDonald’s 
Morgan Stanley 
RBS 
Société Générale
Sears 
Standard Life Bank Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 7
Citigroup: Experian is working
with Citi Cards, the largest
provider of card products in the
United States, to develop a
centralised marketing database.
Citi Cards is a unit of Citigroup.
Motor insurance database: 
A total of 25,000 enquiries are
being received from the police
each day as they check
Experian’s motor insurance
database to see whether vehicles
are properly insured.
Headquarters: Experian’s
headquarters are in Costa Mesa,
California (pictured here) and
Nottingham, UK. The company
employs over 13,000 people
worldwide.
Fraud: Banks, building societies
and financial service providers 
in the UK and US are increasingly
turning to Experian to support
them in their fight against all
forms of fraud, from identity
theft to money laundering. 8 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian continued
Experian International
Experian International, which accounts for 40% of
Experian’s worldwide sales, had another successful
year. Sales increased by 11% and profit by 21% at
constant exchange rates.
Sales of credit information and solutions grew by
15%, with particularly strong growth in business
information and account processing. Experian’s
presence outside the UK was significantly enhanced
by the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, the leading
consumer and business credit information provider 
in Denmark and Norway. The acquisition brought the
total number of information bureaux operated by
Experian to 16 and provided a strong platform for 
the sale of a full range of integrated information and
decision support solutions.
Experian also benefited from recent investments to
bring its consumer marketing and decision solutions
skills to the field of business information. This resulted
in a range of new products, including commercial
versions of Experian’s credit application processing
system, Autoscore, and its geodemographic profiling
system, Mosaic. 
As in North America, Experian International is meeting
the growing demand for credit solutions, not least in
the fight against fraud. In the UK alone, ‘card not
present’ fraud increased by over 60% during 2002, 
as criminals used stolen credit card details to make
purchases over the telephone and Internet.
Significant progress was also made in account
processing, with a number of major contracts awarded
to Experian by clients expanding their operations into
Europe. In the UK, Experian supported the pilot of the
new Marks & Spencer joint credit and loyalty card.
Sales of marketing information and solutions grew 
by 14%, despite difficult market conditions. This was
driven by strong growth in the automotive and
insurance sectors. 
Within the automotive sector, Experian continued to
enhance its Car Data Check database, while developing
the market for dealer management and sales reporting
systems. Lexus, the luxury car manufacturer, was 
one of a number of automotive clients to adopt an
automated online system in order to make faster and
more informed marketing decisions.
Outsourcing accounted for about 30% of Experian
International’s sales and showed 4% growth in the
year. In the UK, Experian won a major contract from
NTL to supply consumer billing services. In Italy,
Experian was chosen by CartaSi, the country’s leading
bank card, to support its customer contact operation. 
In the UK, Experian enhanced its ability to provide
strategic advice to clients with the acquisition of one
of the leading economic consultancy groups, Business
Strategies. The combination of Business Strategies’
analysis and forecasting abilities with Experian’s
information assets will open up new areas of expertise
and product development.
ABN AMRO: This global 
banking group uses Experian’s
advanced decision solutions to
streamline decision-making in all
areas of customer management,
from processing loan applications
to collecting overdue accounts.
Experian’s recent acquisition of
Scorex has created a global
decision solutions business,
capable of supporting clients
such as ABN AMRO in many
different market places. Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 9
Argos Retail Group had another 
successful year as the UK’s leading 
general merchandise retailer.
Argos Retail Group
Over the last three years, Argos Retail Group (ARG)
has invested significantly in building the UK’s 
leading general merchandise retailing group. ARG’s
proposition of choice, value and convenience is
supported by a greatly strengthened product supply
chain and multiple shopping channels – stores,
catalogues, telephone and Internet. Together these
provide ARG’s retail brands with a powerful platform
for growth. 
The Argos retail chain has been transformed since its
acquisition in 1998, outperforming its market for the
third successive year. The acquisition of Homebase in
December 2002 means that ARG now has the second
largest brand in the do-it-yourself market and a
strong base from which to increase its position in the
growing homewares and furnishings market.
In May 2003, ARG announced the disposal of its home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with its logistics and customer care business,
Reality. As a result, ARG in the UK and Ireland is now
focused on general merchandise through its Argos
and Homebase businesses.
In the year under review, ARG increased sales by 
11% and profits by 12%.
Argos
Argos has continued to go from strength to strength,
achieving sales of over £3bn for the first time. Sales
were up 12% and profit up 17%.
Thirty-three new Argos stores were opened during the
year, bringing the total to 523, with plans to open a
similar number this year. The store refurbishment
programme also continued apace, including initiatives
to improve customer service. Over 500 quick-pay
kiosks were installed to enable customers to order
and pay for goods without going to the till. Argos
also became the first High Street retailer to take
advantage of the growth in mobile phone text
messaging with a ‘Text & Take Home’ service. 
The Argos product range was significantly expanded,
with about 25% more products in the latest
Spring/Summer catalogue compared to the previous
edition. These were largely in the areas of bedding,
furniture and textiles, where sales are set to increase
as customer awareness grows. Delivery of products to
home via Argos Direct increased by 33% and now
accounts for 18% of all Argos sales.
Argos’ achievements during the year were recognised
by its peers at the Retail Week Awards, the UK retail
industry awards. Argos won no less than four awards:
Retail Technology, Multi-channel Retailing, Marketing
and, most importantly, Retailer of the Year.
Argos advertising: The launch
of the new Argos advertising
campaign, starring Julia Sawalha
and Richard E Grant, resulted in
faster pick-up of the new Argos
catalogue, increased purchase
frequency and improved
perceptions of the Argos brand.
It also won the Marketing
Campaign of the Year at the
Retail Week Awards 2003. 10 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
Argos continued
Homebase 
Homebase, the do-it-yourself and home furnishings
retailer, was acquired in December 2002. This business
operates in fast growing markets, with excellent
organic growth prospects. There are also significant
operational benefits to be gained from combining
Homebase’s supply chain and infrastructure with
those of ARG.
The priority since acquisition was to prepare for peak
trading in April and May. In addition, the management
team was strengthened by appointments from within
ARG and a number of early gains were identified,
particularly within the supply chain. 
The focus during the current year is to create a
successful platform for growth in 2004 and beyond,
while delivering on profit expectations. Key initiatives
will include improving the in-store experience and
increasing the sales of high value items such as
furniture, bathrooms and kitchens. Further stores 
are also planned, together with the continued roll 
out of mezzanine floors, which offer an attractive
return on investment. 
Home Shopping UK & Ireland
The market for agency home shopping remained
difficult during the year. As a result, sales in ARG’s 
UK & Ireland home shopping businesses were 
8% below the level of last year. 
The rundown or sale of peripheral businesses
accounted for 3% of this decline. Sales from continuing
direct catalogues, principally Marshall Ward and
Abound, remained strong. 
Reality
Reality continued to support ARG’s multi-channel
operations with home delivery and customer care
services. Sales to external customers were level with
the previous year. The core logistics business grew
sales by 7%, but this was offset by the withdrawal
from and sale of peripheral activities, including
packaging and fleet management. 
Following the disposal of Reality in May 2003, ARG 
has entered into commercial agreements with it for 
the continuing provision of home delivery and 
other services. 
Financial Services
Demand for the Argos store card continued to grow,
with 630,000 active accounts, up from 460,000 a
year ago. Outstanding balances increased from £50m
to £155m, with over 7% of sales at Argos now made
using the store card.
Argos personal loans, which were introduced with the
Autumn/Winter catalogue, also made good progress. 
Home Shopping Continental Europe
Sales in Continental Europe increased by 10% and
profit by 5% at constant exchange rates. Wehkamp,
which is the leading home shopping brand in Holland,
accounted for 80% of these sales and benefited from
improved promotional activity and strong growth in
branded clothing and electronic goods.
ARG operating profit
£ million
 192 
 00  01  02  03 
 21 7 
 255 
 285  Store openings: Homebase had
273 stores at the year-end and a
further nine are planned during
the current financial year.
Argos growth: Argos has
continued to go from strength 
to strength, outperforming 
its market for the third
successive year.
Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 11
Homebase: The new mezzanine
floors are enabling Homebase 
to showcase kitchens, bathrooms
and home furnishings, while
providing an attractive return 
on investment.
Argos store card: Over 7% of
Argos sales were made using the
Argos store card. There were
about 630,000 active card holders
by the year-end.  12 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
Burberry
This was an eventful year for Burberry, both
strategically and financially, during which it
established a strong platform for future growth.
The year began with Burberry’s successful IPO, which
took place during some of the most difficult stock
market conditions in more than a decade. It was a
significant milestone in a five-year transformation 
of Burberry that saw a new management team
undertake a series of initiatives to create a distinctive
luxury brand with international recognition and 
broad appeal. 
Burberry ended the year with an excellent set of
financial results, ahead of expectations at the time of
the IPO in July 2002. At constant exchange rates,
sales increased by 21% and profit by 34%. 
Products
Burberry products include apparel for women, men
and children, together with accessories such as
handbags, scarves and small leather goods. 
The continuing development of high-margin
accessories was a primary objective during the year.
These now account for 29% of the product mix.
Womenswear, which led the revitalisation of the
Burberry brand, maintained its strong momentum,
with sales up 20% on the previous year. This was led
by strong demand for new interpretations of
traditional Burberry classics such as the trench coat
and by new core classics such as quilted jackets and
kilt-inspired skirts. In menswear, Burberry continued
to capitalise on the masculine heritage of the brand
by broadening and intensifying its product range.
The Burberry Prorsum men’s and women’s collections
were showcased on the catwalks during Milan’s
quarterly fashion weeks. These strategically
important collections received outstanding 
press reviews. 
Burberry continued to build on its 
unique positioning as the authentic 
British luxury brand.
Distribution
Burberry sells products in Europe, North America and
Asia through its own directly operated stores and
wholesale customers. 
The company made further strategic progress with
the acquisition of its Korean distributor, which
completed Burberry’s programme of taking direct
control of its primary Asian markets outside Japan.
The licensing arrangements in Japan, which is the
most important luxury market in the world, continued
to flourish with retail sales in excess of an estimated
£1 billion.
In North America, which represents a key area of
future growth, Burberry continued to expand its
presence through increased sales in existing and new
stores. The new 24,000 square foot store in New York
City was one of five to be opened in North America. 
It also became the largest of Burberry’s flagship stores
to date and the most complete expression of the
Burberry brand in the US market.
Within Europe, the brand’s repositioning in the domestic
Spanish market made encouraging progress, led by
the opening of a store in Barcelona, Burberry’s first in
this important market. 
Burberry operating profit
£ million
 22 
 00  01  02  03 
 70 
 90 
 11 7  New York: The new 24,000
square foot flagship store in 
New York City was opened in
November 2002. It was one of 
1 2 Burberry stores to be opened
or refurbished last year.
Apparel: Burberry’s apparel
collections were showcased in
London and Milan during the
year, with significant editorial
recognition from fashion and
lifestyle media.
Barcelona: Burberry’s
repositioning in the important
Spanish market progressed with
the opening of a store in
Barcelona. 
Accessories: Burberry
accessories were 29% of the sales
mix, compared to 25% in the
previous year as a result of
continued product development.
Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 13  14 Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review
South African Retailing
Despite the tough economic environment, our South
African Retailing business continued to make progress.
Strong price competition and high interest rates held
back sales, which were up 2% in local currency on the
previous year. However, profits were up 13% in rand,
as the result of an expanded financial services offer,
careful control of bad debt and cost savings initiatives. 
South African Retailing has a strong market position
and an excellent management team. It currently
operates 398 Lewis stores and 45 Best Electric stores
and, in recent years, has undertaken a number of
initiatives to enhance the product range, improve
credit controls and reduce costs. The business is now
well placed to take advantage of the widely expected
recovery in consumer spending in South Africa.
Subject to market conditions, we intend to arrange a
partial IPO on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange
for our South African Retailing business during
calendar year 2004.
Our social responsibilities
Our businesses have continued to focus on the issues
of Corporate Social Responsibility with enthusiasm and
commitment. The Group’s latest CSR Report records
strong progress in our environmental, community and
human rights management. We also continue to be
listed in the main indices of socially responsible
investment, including FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones
Global Sustainability Index. 
In our environmental management, we have improved
our energy efficiency for the third year running, while
finding new ways to reduce our use of packaging
across the Group. We have also devoted considerable
effort to implementing our Supplier Principles to
ensure that suppliers share our concern for human
rights in the workplace.
Such progress relies greatly on the wholehearted
enthusiasm and support of GUS people at all levels,
but nowhere more so than in our relationships with
local communities. The GUS Charitable Trust is the
primary focus for the Group’s direct giving to
community projects and donated £967,000 during the
year. In a groundbreaking move, it brought together
over 20 medical charities in the field of prostate
cancer to work together for change. 
Experian undertook a wide range of community
initiatives, including sponsorship of the Robin Hood
Marathon in Nottingham, which was supported by
over 700 employees, and the Habitat for Humanity
project in North America to provide affordable
housing for low-income families. Argos Retail Group
focused many of its fundraising efforts on its charity
of the year, Barnardo’s, raising over £370,000. 
Our people
Our ability to attract and motivate talented people
remained a high priority during the year. Our
recruitment policies benefited from the increasing
strength of our brands and we continued to develop
the working environment and incentives to encourage
top performance. The GUS ‘Sharesave’ arrangements
were extended to four new countries and a further
four countries will be included this year. 
Summary
GUS has had another good year. We have continued 
to focus and strengthen the Group, while generating
increased sales and profits for the third consecutive
year. Our main businesses have strong management
teams, clear strategies and many further opportunities
for growth and we remain confident about their
future prospects.
John Peace
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2003
The Group’s major businesses have strong
management teams, clear strategies and
many further opportunities for growth.
South African Retailing: GUS 
is planning a partial IPO of its
South African business during
calendar year 2004, subject to
market conditions. Annual Review 2003 Chief executive’s review 15
Experian marathon: The
Experian Robin Hood Marathon 
in Nottingham was voted by
Runners World magazine as the
best marathon in the UK after 
the London Marathon. More 
than 700 Experian employees
supported this fund raising event.
Barnardo’s: Employees of 
Argos Retail Group raised over
£370,000 for their charity of the
year, Barnardo’s. 
GUS Sharesave: The GUS
Sharesave Scheme, which enables
employees to take a stake in 
the business through a SAYE
share option plan, continues 
to be rolled out beyond the UK. Terry Duddy (47) Chief Executive, Argos Retail Group
16 Annual Review 2003 Board of directors
David Tyler (50) Finance Director
David Tyler graduated from Cambridge University, where he read
Economics, in 1974.
He spent the first 11 years of his career working for Unilever in a
variety of financial, commercial and strategic jobs. In 1986 he joined
County NatWest where he worked in senior financial control roles. He
then worked for Christie’s International from 1989 to 1996 as Finance
Director and as President of Christie’s America.
David Tyler has been Finance Director of GUS plc since February 1997.
Aside from his financial role, he also now has responsibility for the
development of Group strategy and has operational responsibility for
some of the Group’s smaller businesses. Since June 2002, he has been 
a non-executive director of Burberry Group plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
and a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Board of directors
Terry Duddy began his career at Letraset in 1978, initially in personnel
management and later in product management. He joined the Dixons
Stores Group in 1984, where he held various commercial positions,
including Sales Director of Currys, Product Marketing Director of the
Dixons Stores Group and, latterly, Managing Director of PC World. 
Terry Duddy joined GUS in August 1998 as Chief Executive of the newly
acquired Argos, becoming a director of GUS plc later that year. In 2000
he was appointed Chief Executive of the Argos Retail Group. 
John Peace (54) Group Chief Executive
John Peace joined GUS in 1970 and held several senior IT management
positions before co-founding CCN in 1980. CCN was the company
formed by GUS to market information services to retailers and other
lending organisations. In 1991, John Peace was appointed Chief
Executive of CCN, which was by then one of Europe’s largest
information services companies. 
During the mid-nineties, CCN was combined with a number of other 
US and European businesses to form a global information services
organisation called Experian, with John Peace as its Chief Executive. 
In 1997, he joined the Board of GUS plc, becoming Group Chief
Executive in January 2000. 
In June 2002, John Peace was appointed Chairman of Burberry Group
plc, in advance of its partial flotation by GUS in July 2002.
John Peace is Chairman of the Board of Governors of Nottingham Trent
University, a member of the Board of Companions of the Chartered
Management Institute and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. 
Craig Smith (52) (USA) Chairman, Experian
Craig Smith studied business management at Towson University in
Baltimore, Maryland before joining Maryland National Bank in 1973.
Here he gained experience in all areas of retail lending and bank
operations, becoming Vice President. 
In 1982, Craig Smith was one of five founding executives of MBNA
America Bank and spent 12 years with that organisation. He went on to
become Chairman and founder of Hamilton Partners, a management
consultancy specialising in advising financial services organisations.
Craig Smith joined Experian in June 2000 as Chief Executive Officer for
Experian North America. In March 2003, he joined the Board of GUS plc
and was appointed Chairman of Experian worldwide. 
Craig Smith is involved with a number of local charitable organisations and
directs Experian’s worldwide corporate social responsibility programme.
Alan Smart was educated at Rondebosch Boys High and the University of
Cape Town. After serving articles of clerkship with a chartered accounting
practice, he joined Lewis in 1969. He held several financial control
positions before being appointed Credit Director of Lewis in 1980.
In 1984 Alan Smart was promoted to Joint Managing Director, with
responsibility for credit and store operations. In 1991 he became Chief
Executive of the Lewis Group, a position he currently holds.
Alan Smart is a former national council member of the Furniture Traders
Association of South Africa.
Alan Smart (58) (South Africa) Chief Executive, South African Retailing
Sir Victor Blank (60) Chairman
Sir Victor Blank was educated at Stockport Grammar School and St
Catherine’s College, Oxford. He qualified as a solicitor with the law firm
Clifford-Turner (now Clifford Chance), becoming a partner in 1969. In
1981, he moved into investment banking with Charterhouse, becoming
Chairman and Chief Executive in 1985. He was also a director of The
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc from 1985 to 1993. He joined the
Board of GUS plc in 1993.
Sir Victor retired from investment banking in 1997, having become
Deputy Chairman of GUS the previous year. He became Chairman of GUS
in 2000 and is also Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc and a director 
of Chubb plc. 
Sir Victor is a member of the Financial Reporting Council and Chairman
of the Industrial Development Advisory Board. He is a member of the
Council of Oxford University. He chairs two charities, WellBeing and 
UJS Hillel, as well as the Council of University College School.
Sir Victor is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, an Honorary Fellow of St Catherine’s College, Oxford, 
a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Companion of the Institute 
of Management. Annual Review 2003 Board of directors 17
Frank Newman (61) (USA) Non-Executive Director
Frank Newman is Chairman Emeritus of Bankers Trust Corporation,
having served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1995 
to 1999. He currently serves as an advisor to private-equity investment
firms and financial institutions. Frank Newman joined the Board of GUS
plc in 2001. 
Before joining Bankers Trust, Frank Newman was the Deputy Secretary of the
United States Treasury Department. He served in the Treasury Department
from early 1993 until late 1995. As Deputy Secretary, Frank Newman was
the number two official and Chief Operating Officer of the department.
Previously, Frank Newman spent six years with BankAmerica
Corporation, where he was Chief Financial Officer and Vice-Chairman of
the Board. Prior to joining BankAmerica in 1986, he was Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells Fargo Bank.
Frank Newman is a director of Dow Jones & Company, Korea First Bank
and a privately held technology company. He is a member of the
advisory board of Renault and Nissan. He is also a board member of
three public-purpose organisations: the Carnegie Hall Society, Cornell
University Weill Medical College, and MDRC (public policy research).
Sir Alan Rudge (65) Non-Executive Director
Sir Alan Rudge was Deputy Chief Executive of BT until November 
1997 and Chairman of WS Atkins until March 2001. He joined the Board
of GUS plc in 1997 and also serves as a non-executive director on the
Boards of Apollis AG and SESA AG. He is currently President of MSI
Cellular Investments BV, Chairman of ERA Technology Ltd and Pro
Chancellor of Surrey University. 
Sir Alan has a PhD in Electrical Engineering and is a Fellow of the Royal
Society and the Royal Academy of Engineers. He is a past President of
the Institution of Electrical Engineers and past Chairman of the
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Louise Patten joined the Board of GUS in 1997 and chairs the
Remuneration Committee. She is also Chairman of Brixton plc and a
non-executive director of Hilton plc and Somerfield plc, as well as
Senior Adviser to Bain & Co. 
Louise graduated from Oxford University in 1977 and went from there
to Citibank. She remained in banking until 1985, when she moved into
management consultancy. In 1993, Louise joined Bain & Co, the global
strategy consultancy, as a Partner.
Louise has considerable experience as a non-executive director. She was
a director of Harveys Furnishings plc from 1993–2000 and of the
Catholic Building Society from 1993–1997 and was appointed to the
board of Hilton Group plc in 1993. Louise is also senior non-executive
director and remuneration committee chairman of Somerfield plc, 
whose board she joined in 1998, and was its interim Chairman from
1999–2000. In 2001, she joined the Board of Brixton plc as a non-
executive director, taking over the chairmanship of Brixton in May 2003.
Oliver Stocken (61) Non-Executive Director
After qualifying with Arthur Andersen, Oliver Stocken became a director
of NM Rothschild & Sons and subsequently Managing Director of
Barclays Australia and of Barclays Merchant Bank in London.
At the inception of BZW Holdings in 1986 he was a member of the
Board, becoming Chief Operating Officer in 1990 and later Finance
Director. In May 1993 he became Group Finance Director, Barclays PLC,
finishing this role in September 1999.
Oliver Stocken was appointed to the Board of GUS plc in April 2000 and
chairs the Audit Committee. He is Deputy Chairman of 3i plc and a non-
executive director of Rank Group plc, Pilkington plc, Novar plc,
Searchspace Limited, Rutland plc and Stanhope plc.
Oliver Stocken is also a Trustee of the Natural History Museum; Council
Member and Treasurer of the Royal College of Art; Chairman of Finance
and Member of the Committee of the MCC; Trustee of the Henley River
& Rowing Museum, and Chairman of the Trustees of the Devas Youth
Club, Wandsworth.
Lord Harris was educated at Streatham Grammar School and in 1957, 
at the age of 15, took over the running of the family business. This
consisted of three carpet shops, which by 1977 he had increased to 
93. Later that year he acquired Queensway Discount Warehouse and in
1978 successfully floated the Harris Queensway Group. In 1988, Harris
Queensway was taken over by the Lowndes Consortium and Lord Harris
went on to set up Carpetright, which was floated in 1993. Lord Harris 
is Chairman and Chief Executive of Carpetright plc, which now has over
440 stores. 
Lord Harris was appointed to the Board of GUS in 1986. He is also
Chairman of Harris Ventures Ltd and the prostate cancer ‘Investing In
Life’ campaign.
Lord Harris is a major sponsor of the Harris City Technology College in
Croydon, Bacon’s College, Southwark and Kemnal Technology College,
Sidcup. He is also in the process of funding two City Academies, one in
Peckham and another in Croydon, together with a Community Centre in
Peckham. He is a benefactor of two colleges at Oxford, Oriel and Harris
Manchester, and Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge.
Secretary 
David Morris FCA 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stockbrokers
Cazenove
Merrill Lynch
Solicitors 
Linklaters & Alliance 
Berwin Leighton Paisner
Registered Office 
Universal House 
Devonshire Street 
Manchester M60 1XA 
Company No. 146575 
Registrars and 
transfer office 
Lloyds TSB Registrars 
The Causeway 
Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Corporate Governance
Committee 
Sir Victor Blank (Chairman)
John Peace
Sir Alan Rudge
David Morris
Audit Committee
Oliver Stocken (Chairman)
Frank Newman
Lady Patten
Sir Alan Rudge 
Remuneration Committee
Lady Patten (Chairman)
Sir Alan Rudge
Oliver Stocken 
Nomination Committee
Sir Victor Blank (Chairman)
John Peace
Lord Harris
Frank Newman
Lady Patten
Sir Alan Rudge
Oliver Stocken 
Lord Harris of Peckham (60) Non-Executive Director
Lady Patten of Wincanton (49) Non-Executive Director 18 Annual Review 2003 Profit and loss account
Profit and loss account
Sales 
Sales increased by 11% from £6,457m to £7,146m, including £375m from acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions
and at constant exchange rates, Group sales from continuing operations were 10% higher than last year.
Profit
Group profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation increased by 16% to £642m. The
improvement reflects a focus on our core businesses where profitability has risen.
Exceptional items
An exceptional loss of £90m was incurred during the year. The major exceptional items were the £139m profit
on the partial IPO of Burberry and the £210m provision for the loss on the disposal of the Group’s Home
Shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden, together with Reality. There was also a charge of £19m 
for impairment of goodwill, previously written off to reserves, on the closure of Innovations. All other costs 
of reorganisation and restructuring are treated as operating costs and are included within operating profit.
Interest
Interest costs in the year fell by £8m to £58m. This reflects the impact of lower interest rates (£6m), the
previously announced change in the way GUS accounts for interest (a gain of £9m) and the interest income on
proceeds from the partial IPO of Burberry (£7m). These were partly offset by the funding costs associated with 
the acquisition of Homebase (£15m).
Taxation
The Group’s effective rate of tax for the year, before goodwill charge and profit/loss on sale of businesses, has
fallen from 23.8% to 22.7%. This continues to be lower than the UK standard corporate tax rate, mainly because
of efficient structures for the Group’s overseas activities.
Minority interests
Profit attributable to equity minority interests in 2003 of £17m relates mainly to the 23% of profit attributable to
the minority shareholders of Burberry. It also includes profit attributable to minority shareholdings in companies
owned by Experian International. Minority interests on the balance sheet represent the minority share of the net
assets of these companies.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 47.8p in the year ended 
31 March 2003 compared to 41.7p last year. 
Pensions
The Group has continued to account for pension costs under SSAP 24. The sharp fall in equity markets during
the year reduced the market value of the Group’s pension scheme assets, while the fall in interest rates
increased the discounted value of the liabilities. As a result there is, under the transitional arrangements of 
FRS17, a net deficit for all retirement benefit schemes of £215m after tax relief at 31 March 2003. Although 
this situation is not welcome, it should be noted that the deficit is equal to less than 4% of the Group’s market
capitalisation and can prudently be resolved over a period of several years. It therefore has no material impact
on the Group’s operations or financial flexibility.
Accounting policies and standards
With effect from 1 April 2002, the Group has been accounting for the forward premium/discount arising on
forward currency sales as interest. The effect of this change has been to reduce interest expense for the year
ended 31 March 2003 by £9m. There would have been no material effect if this approach had been applied in
the year ended 31 March 2002.
 7,146
Sales
£ million
 5,658 
 00  01  02  03 
 6,041 
 6,457 
 642 
Underlying profit before tax
*
£ million
* Excluding amortisation of goodwill 
  and exceptional items
 448 
 00  01  02  03 
 487 
 552 
 47 .8
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share*
pence
*Excluding amortisation of goodwill 
  and exceptional items
 34.5 
 00  01  02  03 
 37       .2 
 41.7 
 23.3
Dividend per share
pence
 20.6 
 00  01  02  03 
 21.0 
 21.7  Annual Review 2003 Profit and loss account 19
2003 2003 2003 2002
Before exceptional Exceptional Total
Summary group profit and loss account Items Items
for the years ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Continuing operations 5,473 – 5,473 4,678
Discontinued operations 1,673 – 1,673 1,779
Total turnover 7,146 – 7,146 6,457
Operating profit 487 (41) 446 397
Share of operating profit of BL Universal PLC (joint venture) 26 – 26 25
Share of operating profit of associated undertakings 44 – 44 33
Loss on sale of fixed asset investments in continuing operations ––– (2)
Profit on Initial Public Offering of Burberry – continuing operations – 161 161 –
Provision for loss on disposal of Home Shopping and Reality businesses – discontinued operations – (210) (210) –
Loss on sale of other businesses – continuing operations ––– (6)
Net interest (58) – (58) (67)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 499 (90) 409 380
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (141) (122)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 268 258
Equity minority interests (17) (1)
Profit for the year 251 257
Dividends (232) (217)
Retained profit for the year 19 40
Profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation 642 552
Basic earnings per 25p Ordinary share 25.1p 25.7p
Adjustments: Effect of amortisation of goodwill 14.3p 9.9p
Adjustments: Effect of exceptional items 8.4p 6.1p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 47.8p 41.7p
Diluted earnings per share 25.0p 25.5p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 47.5p 41.4p
Turnover Profit before taxation
Divisional results 2003 2002 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Experian
Experian North America 718 688 171.5 154.6
Experian International 483 427 84.9 69.6
1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2
Argos Retail Group
Argos 3,192 2,847 238.2 204.0
Homebase 251 – 2.2 –
Home Shopping – UK & Ireland 1,482 1,607 15.4 33.6
Financial Services 34 11 4.6 (4.8)
Home Shopping – Continental Europe 275 238 24.7 22.4
5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2
Burberry 594 499 116.7 90.3
South African Retailing 114 123 31.8 30.9
Finance Division 17 29 6.6 15.1
Property – – 25.9 24.8
gusco.com 1 1 (2.7) (4.8)
7,161 6,470 719.8 635.7
Inter-divisional turnover (principally Experian) (15) (13)
7,146 6,457
Central costs (19.3) (17.1)
700.5 618.6
Net interest (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4)
Exceptional items (90.1) (72.6)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 409.4 380.1
Included within turnover and profit before taxation of Argos Retail Group shown above, £1,673m (2002 £1,779m) of turnover and £35.3m
(2002 £44.0m) of profit before tax relates to discontinued activities. The turnover and profit figures for Homebase cover the post acquisition
period from 20 December 2002. Amortisation of goodwill includes £38m (2002 £5m) relating to Experian, £99m (2002 £89m) relating to
Argos Retail Group and £6m (2002 £5m) relating to Burberry. 20 Annual Review 2003 Cash flow statement and balance sheet
Cash flow
Cash flow before acquisitions, disposals and dividends amounted to £618m compared to £478m in the previous year. Cash flow benefited
from the growth in profits in the year and from tight control over working capital which was £201m lower despite the growth in the Argos
store card loan book. Capital expenditure grew by £7m to £329m and was equivalent to 134% of the depreciation charge in 2003.
Summary cash flow statement 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £m £m
Profit before goodwill, exceptionals and tax 642 552 
Exceptional items – (45)
Corporation tax (141) (82)
Change in working capital 201 163 
Capital expenditure (329) (322)
Depreciation 245 212 
Free cash flow 618 478 
Dividends (220) (213)
Acquisitions and divestments (1,037) (35)
Net cash flow (639) 230 
Securitisation repayments (201) (380)
Foreign exchange movements 38 (4)
Movement in net debt (802) (154)
Net debt
Net debt at the year end was £2,086m, an increase of £802m on the previous year. The increase mainly reflects acquisition activity during
the year, with a net spend after divestments of £1,037m.
Balance sheet
Shareholders' funds amount to £2,543m, a rise of £126m in the year. This is equivalent to 253p per share compared with 240p last year.
Total shareholder return (the increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends) was 44% over the three years to 
31 March 2003. This compares favourably with the total shareholder return for the average FTSE 100 company which was minus 40%.
Summary balance sheet 2003 2002
as at 31 March £m £m
Fixed assets 3,995 2,771 
Current assets 3,273 2,814 
Short term creditors (2,699) (2,171)
Net current assets 574 643 
Total assets less current liabilities 4,569 3,414 
Long term creditors (1,791) (865)
Provisions (138) (126)
Net assets 2,640 2,423 
Shareholders’ funds 2,543 2,417 
Minority interests 97 6 
Capital employed 2,640 2,423 
The Summary Financial Statement on pages 19 and 20
was approved by the Board on 27 May 2003.
John Peace
David Tyler
Directors
Cash flow statement and balance sheet Annual Review 2003 Summary directors’ report 21
Principal activities and business review
GUS is a retail and business services group. It provides business information and customer relationship
management services globally through Experian, general merchandise retailing through Argos Retail Group 
and luxury goods through its 77 per cent holding in Burberry. The activities of Argos Retail Group were widened
through the acquisition of Homebase in December 2002. GUS also has UK Property interests and owns a retailing
business in South Africa. The review of the results for the year and an indication of future developments appear
on pages 4 to 15.
Profit and dividends
The profit for the year amounts to £251m (2002 £257m). An interim dividend of 6.9p was paid to the 
Ordinary shareholders of the Company on 7 February 2003 and, on 27 May 2003, the directors recommended
the payment, on 8 August 2003, of a final dividend of 16.4p, giving a total dividend for the year of 23.3p
(2002 21.7p). The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at
the close of business on 11 July 2003.
Directors
Details of current members of the Board are shown on pages 16 and 17. Victor Barnett retired from the Board
on 1 July 2002, Craig Smith was appointed a director on 25 March 2003 and a resolution proposing his 
re-election will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. The directors retiring by rotation are Lord Harris of
Peckham, Lady Patten of Wincanton, John Peace and Oliver Stocken. Lord Harris will offer himself for re-election
annually in the light of his length of service as a non-executive director.
Corporate Governance
The Board of GUS supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Combined Code and,
following a change made during the year under review, it is now able to confirm that it fully complies with all
its provisions. The change in question was to reduce from 24 months to 12 months the period of notice under
the service contract of Alan Smart, Chief Executive of the Group’s retailing interest in South Africa.
Acquisitions and disposals 
The partial flotation of Burberry was successfully completed on12 July 2002 producing net proceeds of £239m.
On 20 December 2002 the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Homebase for a consideration 
of £902m.
Post balance sheet event
On 27 May 2003, the Group announced the disposal of its Home Shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and
Sweden together with Reality, its logistics and customer care business in the UK. The businesses have been sold
for about £590m, the initial consideration being £410m. An unconditional sum of £140m is payable in three
years’ time and £40m is payable on completion following regulatory clearance in Ireland and Sweden.
Annual General Meeting
The eighty-fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Marriott Grosvenor Square,
Grosvenor Square, London W1A 4AW at 1 1.30am on Wednesday 23 July 2003. The Notice of Meeting is included
in a separate Circular to Shareholders which accompanies this Annual Review.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Last year the Company published its first separate Corporate Social Responsibility report. This year’s report will
be published on the Company’s website, www.gusplc.com, with a briefer report printed in hard copy form. This
is available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Group’s support for charitable causes is channelled through the work of the GUS Charitable Trust. The
Trust’s income from the Company in respect of the year ended 31 March 2003 was £963,000. In that year, the
Trust made awards totalling £967,000.
Summary Financial Statement
The Summary Financial Statement
on pages 19 and 20, the
Summary directors’ report on
page 21 and the Summary
directors’ remuneration report on
pages 22 and 23 are a summary
of information in the Annual
Report and Financial Statements
2003. This Summary Financial
Statement does not contain
sufficient information to allow as
full an understanding of the
results and state of affairs of the
Company or of the Group as
would be provided by the Annual
Report and Financial Statements
2003. Shareholders requiring
more detailed information have
the right to obtain, free of charge,
a copy of the Annual Report and
Financial Statements 2003.
The Directors’ report, the
financial statements and
Auditors’ report on those
financial statements, which is
unqualified, are contained in the
Annual Report and Financial
Statements 2003. The Auditors’
report did not contain a
statement under either S237(2) of
the Companies Act 1985
(inadequate accounting records
or returns, or accounts not
agreeing with records and
returns) or S237(3) (failure to
obtain necessary information and
explanations). 
Copies of the Annual Report and
Financial Statements 2003 may
be obtained free of charge by
writing to:
The Company Secretary
GUS plc
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester M60 1XA
Tel:  +44 (0)161 273 8282
Fax: +44 (0)161 277 4056
Shareholders wishing to receive
the Annual Report and Financial
Statements as well as the Annual
Review and Summary Financial
Statement in future years should
write to this address.
Summary directors’ report 22 Annual Review 2003 Summary directors’ remuneration report
Value of £100 invested in March 1998 - shown on a monthly basis
March 1998 March 1999 March 2000 March 2001 March 2002 March 2003
£140
£120
£100
£80
£60
  GUS share price
  FTSE 100
Remuneration Committee
Both the level and structure of executive directors’ pay and the remuneration of the Chairman are decided by
the Remuneration Committee. The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter reserved for the Board as
a whole. The Remuneration Committee is a Board committee consisting exclusively of independent non-
executive directors: Lady Patten (Chairman), Sir Alan Rudge and Oliver Stocken.
Policy statement
GUS now has three core businesses that are well positioned to achieve sustained growth. Key to success has
been a move towards a performance-oriented culture with a clear link between remuneration and performance.
The four tenets on which our remuneration structure is founded are as follows:-
1.Base pay levels are established on a market competitive basis but no higher than this.
2.Benefits (for example pensions and cars) are provided on a ba sis that is appropriate to the local market in
which the director is employed.
3.Performance related incentives provide the opportunity to del iver substantial rewards for high performance. 
4.Wherever reasonable, pay is aligned to shareholders’ interest s. This is reflected in the choice of performance
standards applied to incentive awards and the fact that, for a large part of the overall incentive package,
rewards are denominated in GUS shares.
Consistent with our philosophy, salaries are set on the basis of mid-market practice amongst UK companies of
comparable size. Performance related incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels to produce a highly
leveraged package if our growth objectives are attained.
Pensions
There are four directors for whom retirement benefits are accruing under defined benefit schemes. One director has
a money purchase pension arrangement for which contributions in the year under review amounted to $10,000.
Compliance
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the principles of good
governance and Code of Best Practice set out in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Performance graph
The following performance graph shows the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) for GUS versus the FTSE 100 for the
last five financial years.
Co-investment Plan
Directors are given the opportunity to defer receipt of their annual bonus and have it invested in GUS shares. 
The number of shares acquired on behalf of the executive is matched on a sliding scale depending on the
achievement against target for the relevant financial year. Last year, John Peace, Terry Duddy and David Tyler
chose to invest the whole of their bonus. Shares so purchased, on their behalf, applying the bonuses reported
last year, are included in the table of directors' interests appearing on page 23. Matching shares under these
arrangements are not released until the expiry of a three year period and the right to these shares is forfeited 
if a director resigns before then. The contingent interests in such shares are: John Peace (187,900 shares), 
Terry Duddy (144,056 shares) and David Tyler (109,608 shares).
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests, in the Ordinary shares of the
Company and in the ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc, being a body corporate of the same group, are
shown on page 23 in sections (i) and (ii).  Share options granted to directors and awards under the Performance
Share Plan are shown on page 23. The contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment Plan 
are shown above. Save for the disclosures in relation to Burberry shares, the directors have no interests in the
debentures of the Company or in any shares or debentures of the Company's subsidiaries.
Independent auditors’
statement to the members 
of GUS plc
We have examined the Summary
Financial Statement set out on
pages 19 and 20 and the Directors’
emoluments and share details
included on pages 22 and 23.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for
preparing the Annual Review and
Summary Financial Statement in
accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law. Our
responsibility is to report to you
our opinion on the consistency of
the Summary Financial Statement
with the Annual Report and
Financial Statements and its
compliance with the relevant
requirements of Section 251 of
the Companies Act 1985 and the
regulations made thereunder. We
also read the other information
contained in the Annual Review
and Summary Financial Statement
and consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of
any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the
Summary Financial Statement.
This statement, including the
opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s
members as a body in
accordance with Section 251 
of the Companies Act 1985 and
for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any
other person to whom this
statement is shown or into
whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our
prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in
accordance with Bulletin 1999/6
‘The auditors’ statement on the
summary financial statement’
issued by the Auditing Practices
Board for use in the United
Kingdom.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary
Financial Statement is consistent
with the Annual Report and
Financial Statements of GUS plc
for the year ended 31 March
2003 and complies with the
applicable requirements of
Section 251 of the Companies
Act 1985, and the regulations
made thereunder.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and
Registered Auditors
Manchester
27 May 2003
Summary directors’ remuneration report  Annual Review 2003 Summary directors’ remuneration report 23
Annual Taxable Total Total
Directors’ emoluments Salary bonus Benefits 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive directors
Terry Duddy 525 525 24 1,074 1,294
John Peace 650 650 31 1,331 1,551
Alan Smart 89 61 6 156 147
Craig Smith (from 25 March 2003) 8 12 – 20 –
David Tyler 380 380 18 778 712
Non-executive directors
Sir Victor Blank 296 – 28 324 261
Lord Harris of Peckham 42 – – 42 30
Frank Newman 42–– 42 10
Lady Patten of Wincanton 57 – – 57 37
Sir Alan Rudge 54–– 54 62
Oliver Stocken 57–– 57 37
Former directors
Eric Barnes ––– – 60
Victor Barnett (to 1 July 2002) 129 – – 129 630
David Bury ––– – 84
Jonathan Charkham – – – – 10
2,329 1,628 107 4,064 4,925
Payments to former directors 41 312
Pension contributions 289 293
Pensions in respect of former directors 398 292
4,792 5,822
Options held
at 1 April 2002 Options held Range of
or date of Granted in at 31 March exercise
Share option and incentive arrangements appointment year (1) 2003 prices
Executive Share Option Scheme
Terry Duddy 325,051 80,398 405,449 375.7p to 653.0p
John Peace 342,247 99,540 441,787 375.7p to 653.0p
Alan Smart 37,038 14,235 51,273 612.7p to 653.0p
Craig Smith 603,436 – 603,436 381.3p to 653.0p
David Tyler 281,149 58,192 339,341 375.7p to 690.2p
Shares Shares
awarded at Awarded awarded at
31 March 2002 in year 31 March 2003
Performance Share Plan (2)
Terry Duddy 112,065 80,398 192,463
John Peace 195,356 99,540 294,896
Alan Smart – 14,235 14,235
David Tyler 97,766 58,192 155,958
1  Options granted during the year were at an exercise price of 653p.
2  100 per cent of the awards made under the Performance Share Plan vested on 30 April 2003 following confirmation that the GUS total shareholder return for the performance period
was in the upper quartile in relation to the total shareholder return of a comparator group and confirmation from the Remuneration Committee that the underlying performance of the
Company during the performance period had been satisfactory.
3  Directors, in the UK, with the exception of Sir Alan Rudge, participate in the Company’s Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Company Burberry Group plc
1 April 2002 1 April 2002
or date of or date of
Directors’ interests 31 March 2003 appontment 31 March 2003 appointment
(i) Beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 195,000 100,000 – –
Terry Duddy 60,717 2,500 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 9,700 7,200 – –
Frank Newman 2,500 – – –
Lady Patten of Wincanton 8,370 4,370 – –
John Peace 96,370 30,000 16,000 –
Sir Alan Rudge 6,450 3,950 – –
Alan Smart –– – –
Craig Smith –– – –
Oliver Stocken 22,231 12,621 – –
David Tyler 52,882 20,000 16,000 –
(ii) Non-beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 3,000 3,000 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 25,000 25,000 – –
Options held
at 1 April 2002 Options held Range of
or date of Granted in at 31 March exercise
Share option and incentive arrangements appointment year (1) 2003 prices
Executive Share Option Scheme
Terry Duddy 325,051 80,398 405,449 375.7p to 653.0p
John Peace 342,247 99,540 441,787 375.7p to 653.0p
Alan Smart 37,038 14,235 51,273 612.7p to 653.0p
Craig Smith 603,436 – 603,436 381.3p to 653.0p
David Tyler 281,149 58,192 339,341 375.7p to 690.2p
Shares Shares
awarded at Awarded awarded at
31 March 2002 in year 31 March 2003
Performance Share Plan (2)
Terry Duddy 112,065 80,398 192,463
John Peace 195,356 99,540 294,896
Alan Smart – 14,235 14,235
David Tyler 97,766 58,192 155,958
1  Options granted during the year were at an exercise price of 653p.
2  100 per cent of the awards made under the Performance Share Plan vested on 30 April 2003 following confirmation that the GUS total shareholder return for the performance period
was in the upper quartile in relation to the total shareholder return of a comparator group and confirmation from the Remuneration Committee that the underlying performance of the
Company during the performance period had been satisfactory.
3  Directors in the UK, with the exception of Sir Alan Rudge, participate in the Company’s Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Company Burberry Group plc
1 April 2002 1 April 2002
or date of or date of
Directors’ interests 31 March 2003 appontment 31 March 2003 appointment
(i) Beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 195,000 100,000 – –
Terry Duddy 60,717 2,500 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 9,700 7,200 – –
Frank Newman 2,500 – – –
Lady Patten of Wincanton 8,370 4,370 – –
John Peace 96,370 30,000 16,000 –
Sir Alan Rudge 6,450 3,950 – –
Alan Smart –– – –
Craig Smith –– – –
Oliver Stocken 22,231 12,621 – –
David Tyler 52,882 20,000 16,000 –
(ii) Non-beneficial holdings
Sir Victor Blank 3,000 3,000 – –
Lord Harris of Peckham 25,000 25,000 – – 24 Annual Review 2003 Shareholder information
Shareholder information 
Ordinary shareholders
There were 51,467 holders of Ordinary shares at 31 March 2003 and their holdings can be analysed as follows:
Number of Percentage Number of Percentage
shareholders of total number Ordinary shares of Ordinary
of shareholders ‘000s shares
Over 1,000,000 173 0.3 697,550 69.3
100,001 – 1,000,000 565 1.1 179,781 17.8
10,001 – 100,000 1,831 3.6 54,321 5.4
5,001 – 10,000 2,402 4.7 16,833 1.7
2,001 – 5,000 8,873 17.2 27,609 2.7
1 – 2,000 37,623 73.1 31,039 3.1
51,467 100.0 1,007,133 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
Number of Percentage Number of Percentage
shareholders of total number Ordinary shares of Ordinary
of shareholders ‘000s shares
Corporates 12,317 23.9 931,042 92.4
Individuals 39,150 76.1 76,091 7.6
51,467 100.0 1,007,133 100.0
Registrar
Enquiries concerning holdings of the Company’s shares and notification of the holder’s change of address should be referred to Lloyds TSB
Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0870 600 3987. In addition, Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a range of
shareholder information on line at www.shareview.co.uk. A text phone facility for those with hearing difficulties is available by telephoning
0870 600 3950.
Share price information
The latest GUS plc share price is available on Ceefax and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, Telephone: 0906 843 2740 (calls
charged at 60p per minute).
Internet
A full range of investor relations information on GUS plc, including the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003, London Stock
Exchange Announcements, latest share price, dividend history and downloadable registrar forms is available at www.gusplc.com. A webcast
of the results presentation given to analysts and fund managers by John Peace (Group Chief Executive), David Tyler (Group Finance Director),
Terry Duddy (Chief Executive, Argos Retail Group) and Craig Smith (Chairman of Experian), together with the slides accompanying that
presentation, can be found on the website.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The GUS Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to purchase GUS plc shares. Shareholders
who wish to participate in the DRIP for the first time, in respect of the final dividend to be paid on 8 August 2003, should return a
completed and signed DRIP mandate form to be received by the Registrars, by no later than 18 July 2003. For further details please contact
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or telephone on 0870 241 3018.
Share dealing facility
Existing or potential investors can buy or sell GUS Ordinary shares using a postal dealing service provided by Cazenove & Co., whose 
contact details are:
Cazenove & Co.
20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA
Telephone: 020 7606 1768
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting and first quarter trading update 23 July 2003
Final dividend record date 11 July 2003
Final dividend to be paid 8 August 2003
First half trading update 15 October 2003
Interim results announcement 20 November 2003
Third quarter trading update 14 January 2004
Second half trading update April 2004
Preliminary announcement of annual results 25 May 2004
Registered office
GUS plc
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester M60 1XA
Telephone: 44 (0)161 273 8282  Fax: 44 (0)161 277 4056 Design and production by Accrue*
The paper used for this report uses
ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulps
supplied by manufacturers with
environment-friendly and sustainable
reforestation policies. The report has
been printed using soya-based inks
and the printing process conforms 
to ISO 14001. GUS (Corporate Office)
One Stanhope Gate
London W1K 1AF
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7495 0070
F +44 (0)20 7495 1567
www.gusplc.com
GUS (Registered Office)
Universal House
Devonshire Street
Manchester M60 1XA
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)161 273 8282  
F +44 (0)161 277 4056
Experian North America
475 Anton Boulevard
Costa Mesa CA 92626
United States
T +1 714 830 7600 
F +1 714 830 2575
www.experian.com
Experian International
Talbot House
Talbot Street
Nottingham NG1 5HF
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)115 941 0888
F +44 (0)115 934 4905
www.experian.com
Argos Retail Group
489-499 Avebury Boulevard
Saxon Gate West
Central Milton Keynes MK9 2NW 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)1908 690333
F +44 (0)1908 692301
Burberry
18-22 Haymarket
London SW1Y 4DQ
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7968 0000
www.burberry.com
