 Alternative Networks PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
ALTERNATIVE NETWORKS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Strategic Report
Alternative at a Glance
Our Method
Everything we do is aligned to our customers’ desired business 
outcomes. Each solution is designed with the customer, with 
full visibility and control at all times and underpinned by end to 
end accountability.
Our Customers
Alternative supports a wide variety of customers, from legal, 
professional and financial services, healthcare, higher education 
and multi national operations, to mission critical public services, 
all of which rely on effective and dependable technology 
products and solutions.
Our Partners
We have close working relationships with product and service 
vendors, with whom we hold top partner accreditations 
and have access to the latest technologies, as well as the 
commercial advantages presented by having a wide choice of 
suppliers.
Strategic Report
Alternative at a Glance  2
Chairman’s Statement  6
Chief Executive Officer's Review 8
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 22
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors  26
Directors and Advisers  28
Directors’ Report 29
Corporate Governance Report  33
Remuneration Report  37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report  43 
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income  45
Consolidated and Company Statement   
of Financial Position  46
Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 47
Company Statement of Changes   
in Equity 48
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 49
Company Statement of Cash Flows 50
Notes to the Financial Statements 51
Alternative provides   
IT solutions to businesses 
from device to datacentre
Contents Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
3
Audited results for the year ended 
30 September
2014 2013 Change
£’000 £’000 %
Revenue 137,767  114,346 20%
Adjusted Operating profit* 17,593 15,003 17%
Adjusted EBITDA* ** 19,592  15,939 23%
Adjusted Profit before taxation* 16,417  15,107 9%
Adjusted Earnings per share*** - basic 26.9p 24.7p 9%
- diluted 26.4p 22.9p 15%
Dividend per share - ordinary 14.5p 13.0p 12%
- special - 4.0p
- Total 14.5p 17.0p
Operating profit 11,540 12,381 -7%
EBITDA** 17,034 15,137 13%
Profit before tax 10,363 12,485 -17%
Earnings per share - basic 16.9p 21.2p -20%
- diluted 16.6p 19.7p -16%
Key Financial Information Highlights
Successful year with growth in revenues, profits and underlying cash 
generation 
•	 Reported revenue up 20% to £137.8m (2013: £114.3m)
– Organic revenue up 1%, excluding the effect of Mobile bonus 
reduction^
– Organic gross profits up 5% 
•	 Gross margin strengthened to 41.2% (2013: 39.2%) 
– Reflecting greater proportion of higher margin services and 
improved mobile terms
•	 Reported adjusted EBITDA increased 23% to £19.6m (2013: 
15.9m)
– Organic adjusted EBITDA +5% 
•	 Continued strong cash generation
– Underlying cash generation of 99% (2013: 106%)
– Net debt of £29.3m, in line with prior target and significantly 
below peak level of £40.8m at time of acquisitions
•	 Proposed full year dividend increased 12% to 14.5p
– Reiterated intention to progress towards 15% annual growth, with 
no less than 10% growth per annum
•	 Strong revenue performance in Advanced Solutions and Mobile 
– Organic revenue growth in Advanced Solutions of 3%, with H2 
2014 organic revenue +17% on H1 2014
– 4% revenue growth in Mobile, driven by 12% growth in the 
subscriber base
•	 Strong performance in acquired businesses
– ControlCircle revenue in period since acquisition +10% on 
equivalent period last year
– Intercept IT revenue in period since acquisition +18% on the 
equivalent period last year. Integration of the acquired businesses 
progressing, with the increased breadth of products and services 
facilitating numerous cross-sell opportunities across the Group
•	 Record order book at period-end and strong pipeline for year 
ahead
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share
Free cash flow
26.9p £11.7m
+9% (2013: 24.7p) +14% (2013: £10.3m)
Revenue
£137.8m
+20% (2013: £114.3m)
Adjusted Operating Profit
£17.6m
Dividend  per share
14.5p
+12% (2013: 13.0p)
Adjusted EBITDA
£19.6m
+23% (2013: £15.9m) +17% (2013: £15.0m)
*  Operating profit before intangible assets amortisation excluding software, write off/ 
 back of contingent consideration through comprehensive income statement,   
 exceptional items and share based payments.
**  Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
***  Adjusted earnings per share are based on profits as set out in note 11.
^  Revenue earned directly from network providers based on sales volumes. These have  
 ceased during the year following the redrafting of relevant commercials to provide  
 higher margin opportunities. Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Alternative at a Glance
Advanced Solutions (including billing services)
Our solutions include cloud based services (public, private and 
hybrid), virtualisation, managed hosting, IP voice networks, 
unified communications, video collaboration, contact centre 
and multi-site connectivity, via a wide range of WAN services. 
Furthermore, we specialise in the provision of converged, 
resilient, high performance and secure IP networks that provide 
the essential foundations for the delivery of these collaborative 
systems. This includes all elements of the network, from branch 
to campus, to data centre, and are designed to deliver the 
appropriate levels of business continuity for each customer. 
We provide UCaaS (unified communications as a service), by 
bringing together our SIP and WAN connectivity with Mitel’s 
MiCloud solution suite. We also help customers take control 
of expenditure with a range of call management and billing 
solutions, including mobile order management and tariff 
bundling, tailored telecoms analysis, auditing, procurement 
cost allocation and expense management for leading telecoms 
service providers, resellers, systems integrators, consulting firms 
and corporate customers.
Mobile
Alternative offers an extensive range of mobile solutions, 
including smartphones, mobile email, data, security and 
tablet computing. We have commercial arrangements with 
Vodafone and O2, as well as strong relationships with all the 
major handset and tablet manufacturers. We complement our 
core mobile offering with Mobile Device Management (MDM) 
solutions, allowing customers to achieve the highest levels of 
security, governance and legislative compliance across estates 
of the most popular mobile operating platforms. VDI (virtual 
desktop infrastructure) adds a distinctive element to our mobile 
business proposition. 
Fixed Voice
Alternative provide a range of fixed line telephony services 
that allow customers to deliver business critical services and 
provide migration paths to services in the future. Our fixed 
voice partners include BT Openreach, Vodafone and Gamma. 
We provide migration paths to the services they will require 
in the future. We continue to successfully convert customers 
from traditional voice services, to VoIP (eg SIP). In providing 
well managed, low-overhead migrations to IP based voice 
services, we provide customers with greater flexibility, enhanced 
business continuity and the opportunity to right-size channel 
use to enable greater management of costs. Our SIP trunking 
proposition can be bundled with Mitel’s MiCloud cloud solution 
to create our UCaaS (unified communications as a service) 
proposition. Alongside our outbound voice portfolio, our 
inbound solutions, including non-geographic numbering (NGN) 
ranges, enhance our customers’ marketing and customer 
service operations through greater visibility, control and 
business continuity.
We offer a broad portfolio of IT technology and telecommunications managed 
services, including cloud based services, virtualisation, managed hosting, fixed 
voice, mobile, systems, IP networks and complex billing software solutions.  5
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Service Excellence
Providing a consistently outstanding customer experience 
is rooted firmly in everything we do. As we possess the 
knowledge and understanding of businesses, their needs and 
how they operate, we are able to deliver proven solutions that 
meet a desired business outcome. 
In order to optimise their technologies, businesses need to 
have access at all times to vital information on their technology 
assets, such as usage, activity, performance and faults. Our 
well-established and finely tuned support structure is designed 
to provide different levels of information, alerts and responses, 
accessed and delivered in well-established, proven formats, 
and most importantly always available.
It is this philosophy of reliable, accessible and “always on” ser-
vice that ensures we deliver and support solutions on budget 
and on time, allowing customers to concentrate on operating 
and developing their own businesses without distraction. Our 
end to end accountability provides clear and complete monitor-
ing of activity within our customers’ business communications, 
helping them define a clear path from where they are now, to 
where they want to be tomorrow. 
It is our vision to become 
the leading IT managed 
services provider for UK 
businesses 
Your business outcome
Control through
visibility
Designed
with you
End to end
accountability
Device to datacentre
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
James Murray
Executive Chairman
Alternative Networks has had another 
successful year. We have delivered a 
strong financial performance, invested 
in both acquisitions and the organic 
business to support long term growth, 
and increased value for shareholders.
Results
Reported revenue for the year ended 30 September 2014 was 
up 20% on 2013 and up 1% on an organic basis, when the 
effect of the mobile bonus reduction is excluded. Reported 
adjusted EBITDA is 23% up on 2013, with an equivalent 
organic rise of 5%. 
Organic revenues rose 2% in H2 as compared with H1, 
demonstrating the potential of the Group’s new expanded 
product portfolio and ability to cross-sell newly acquired 
products.
Also pleasing is the rise in gross margins across the Group 
to 41.2%, up from 39.2% in 2013, reflecting improved terms 
on mobile and the increasing contribution from higher gross 
margin services including from the acquired businesses. 
Alternative Networks’ balance sheet remains strong. Net debt 
of £29.3m is down from the peak of £40.8m, in line with the 
Board’s target, despite incurring additional capital expenditure 
inherited from acquisitions, paying 12% higher dividends and 
servicing the loan financing for the majority of the year.
Dividend Policy
The Group continued to pursue its progressive dividend 
policy, with a proposed final dividend of 9.6 pence per share, 
resulting in a total ordinary dividend for the year of 14.5 pence 
per share (2013: 13.0 pence per share), an increase of 12% 
(not including the 2013 special dividend payment). The Board 
intention remains to progress towards 15% annual growth over 
the longer term with at least 10% growth per annum. 7
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Review of Operations
We completed two corporate transactions during the year 
which both met our strict acquisition criteria. Intercept IT and 
ControlCircle are highly complementary businesses, both 
in terms of customer profile and service offering. They have 
significantly increased cross-selling opportunities across 
the combined Group’s existing customer bases; and they 
also enhance the Group’s ability to offer a full service to a 
broader range of new customers, covering all areas of data 
management, online communication and telephony from an 
individual device to a customer’s data centre. Given such a 
good fit, the integration of both acquisitions is unsurprisingly 
progressing well and they have also both been earnings 
enhancing in their first year, another key criterion.
Excluding the contribution of the two acquisitions, the Group’s 
core business was able to achieve modest organic growth 
in its own right. In a highly competitive market, this is a very 
creditable performance and demonstrates the significant edge 
the group’s offering has over its rivals. Mobile subscribers 
continued to grow and, aided by careful cost control and better 
commercial arrangements with the main mobile operators, 
gross margins also increased, especially in the second half 
of the financial year, when they reached record levels. The 
Advanced Solutions business also achieved organic growth 
during the year. Several new products and services were 
introduced with the overall purpose of improving customer 
experience and enabling them to make the right commercial 
decisions for their business. 
The Synapse portal remains fundamental to our offering and 
our ability to retain and attract customers. We continued to 
invest in improving the portal and marketing its benefits more 
widely; our overall billing capabilities will also be enhanced by 
the addition of three complementary portals which had been 
separately developed by Intercept IT and ControlCircle.
I am delighted to welcome Het Marsh and Mark Quartermaine 
to the Board this year and record thanks to Jim Sewell. I am 
confident we have the strength in depth to take the business 
forward.
Growth Strategy
In spite of having made two highly strategic and significant 
acquisitions which have transformed the business, we continue 
to monitor the market for additional opportunities to improve 
our offering even further. Our particular focus is on managed 
and hosted services, the market for which offers the best 
prospects for growth. Our financial strength and track record of 
successful integration underpins our ability to make any such 
acquisitions, always in the knowledge that we will apply the 
same strict criteria as we have always done. 
Cross-selling remains at the heart of our organic growth 
strategy and has been enhanced by the two acquisitions we 
made during the year. All of the key metrics for customer cross-
selling are moving in the right direction, a trend we expect to 
continue. We will also target larger customers, which should 
enable us to increase average billings per customer, and these 
efforts will be supported by the development of new products 
and services. More detail of these initiatives is provided in our 
Chief Executive’s Report.
James Murray
Executive Chairman
9 December 2014 
We achieved organic growth 
in a highly competitive market: 
a very creditable performance, 
demonstrating the significant 
edge the Group’s offering has 
over its rivals. 8
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
This has been a transformational year 
for the Group following the acquisitions 
of ControlCircle and Intercept IT, 
completing the transition of the business 
to an IT Managed Services company 
spanning the full spectrum from device 
to datacentre. Cash generation remains 
strong enabling us to reduce significantly 
net debt from the peak at the time of 
the acquisitions. We have increased 
dividends during the year, with the full 
year dividend up 12%.
The major operational highlights have been as follows:
•	 Continued gains in market share in key growth areas:
– Mobile subscribers increased 12% to 91,391 (2013: 
81,396)
– Advanced Solutions organic revenues were up 3% to 
£39.1m
•	 Good progress on the integration of the two acquired 
companies with the cross-sell benefits already being 
evident with over 25 contracts signed to date with 
contracted gross profit in excess of £0.6m
•	 Significant development of our customer portals as we 
look to integrate Synapse with the acquired portals
Financial Results
Group reported revenues at £137.8m were 20% ahead of 
2013, with organic revenues of £114.2m in line with the prior 
year (2013: £114.3m), and up 1% after the reduction in Mobile 
bonus revenue is excluded. 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT contributed £23.6m revenue 
and £10.0m gross profit to the group results. Group reported 
gross profit increased 27% to £56.8m (2013: £44.8m) with a 
corresponding increase in gross margin from 39.2% to 41.2%. 
The key underlying drivers of this were in mobile telephony, 
where margins have benefited from the new commercial 
arrangements signed in 2014. Margins per product set are 
reviewed in more detail below. Gross margins across the Group 
in the second half of the year rose to 42.5%, an all-time high for 
the business.  9
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group reported adjusted operating profits were up 17% to 
£17.6m (2013: £15.0m), with organic adjusted operating profits 
up 5%. This reflects the improvement in gross margins above 
and further investment made in sales and marketing. 
On a statutory basis, pre-tax profits decreased £2.1m (17%) to 
£10.4m, primarily as a result of exceptional acquisition costs 
incurred in the year. The adjustments are shown in the income 
statement, and also detailed in Note 28.
Cash generation continues to be excellent. Net cash generated 
from operations was £16.2m (2013: £14.4m) representing 82% 
of adjusted EBITDA in the period (2013: 91%). Underlying cash 
generation was £19.5m giving an underlying cash conversion of 
99%. Free cash flow was £11.7m (2013: £10.3m) after servicing 
the loan payments and increased capital investment, enabling 
the Group to reduce net debt from a high of £40.8m to £29.3m. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased 9% to 26.9 pence 
and, on a fully diluted basis, increased 15% to 26.4 pence. 
The statutory or unadjusted fully diluted earnings per share 
decreased 16% from 19.7p to 16.6p. A detailed reconciliation is 
set out in the trading review on page 23. 
The Group’s strong financial performance and cash generation 
has enabled the Board to maintain its progressive dividend 
policy, with a final dividend of 9.6 pence being proposed. The 
result is a total ordinary dividend for the year of 14.5 pence per 
share (2013: 13.0 pence per share), representing an increase of 
12% (not including the 2013 special dividend payment). Looking 
ahead, the Board has reaffirmed its intention to progress to an 
annual dividend growth of 15% with no less than 10% growth 
per annum.
ControlCircle and Intercept IT
Alternative acquired Intercept IT on 9 January 2014 for £12.5m 
and ControlCircle on 23 January 2014 for £39.3m in cash. Both 
businesses have performed strongly since acquisition, proving 
the anticipated benefits to the combined group. In total £23.6m 
of revenue and £10.0m of gross profit and EBITDA of £2.8m 
was recognised in 2014 relating to the acquisitions.
ControlCircle revenue from 23 January 2014 to 30 September 
2014 was £16.6m, 10% ahead of the level recognised in the 
equivalent prior year period, reflecting the ongoing momentum 
in the business and adjusted EBITDA margins were up from 8% 
in the first half to 13% in H2 as we have started to integrate the 
business. ControlCircle has signed a number of new customers 
including a global insurance company plus completion of a 
number of ongoing projects for existing customers which has 
bolstered the level of recurring revenue going forward.
Intercept IT revenue from 1 January 2014 to 30 September 
2014 was £7.0m; 18% ahead of the level recognised in the 
equivalent prior year period. This reflects the momentum in the 
business as it is wins notable new contracts including most 
recently a major contract for a global roll out with a “magic 
circle” law firm. Profitability has also improved with adjusted 
EBITDA margins approaching 12% up from 1% in the prior year.
Considerable cross-sell opportunities exist across the Group 
resulting from the acquisitions, in all product areas and industry 
verticals. We have now won 25 contracts with £0.63m first 
year contracted margin. This includes the sizeable deal with 
Lark insurance to provide services from Intercept IT hosted 
by ControlCircle in addition to the fixed line, mobile and WAN 
products that Alternative already supplied. The pipeline has 
grown with now 223 deals up from just over 150 at the interim 
stage, and these are worth £2.3m first year contracted margin. 
I am very pleased to report a strong 
performance by the Group throughout 
the year. We are delivering innovative 
and relevant solutions to our existing 
customers, increasing our ability to 
retain them and cross-sell them more 
products, and are now penetrating a 
broader range of new prospects. 10
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
We have made reasonable progress on integration with the 
back office functions of finance, marketing, HR and IT all 
quickly integrated. The professional services teams and some 
operations teams have been combined, and the customer 
management teams have been integrated. As a result of the 
integration to date we have 5% fewer staff, in spite of increasing 
the sales team by four heads.
Overall we are pleased with progress and remain confident in 
meeting expectations.
Outlook
2014 was a transformational year for Alternative. Our underlying 
commercial success was complemented by two acquisitions 
which have delivered significant value, both financially, and 
more importantly strategically, because they have immediately 
positioned us a market leading IT service business, able to 
deliver end to end solutions to a larger and more receptive 
customer base.
We have seen encouraging and improving levels of cross-selling 
with the new businesses, as well as in the rest of the group, 
and we have finished FY 2014 with a record quarter in terms of 
business signed. This means we have started the new financial 
year with a good following wind. We go into financial year 2015 
with confidence, as unlike many previous years, we have all the 
people and skills and customers in place from which to deliver 
further growth. The improved profitable performance in the 
second half of 2014 together with the high recurring revenue 
levels in the group mean that the Board approaches 2015 
confident that the business can generate increased levels of 
growth in this financial year. The first weeks of 2015 show signs 
that the momentum carried through the previous quarter is 
continuing and provide sound encouragement. 
Trading Review
The Group has traded well, with continued growth in the 
Advanced Solutions and Mobile telephony products and 
services, which together now account for nearly 80% of 
Group revenues on a proforma basis. The revenue mix across 
the Group has improved as a result of acquired and organic 
growth, previously, Advanced Solutions and Mobile telephony 
accounted for 70% of group revenues. This means a reduction 
in the percentage of revenue relating to legacy Fixed Voice 
services, which is in managed decline. 
Gross profit for the organic business grew 5% to £46.8m (2013: 
£44.7m). The gross profit had been in line for the 3 years 2011 
to 2013.
Advanced Solutions
Advanced Solutions revenues increased by 65% to £62.7m as 
a result of inclusion of ControlCircle and Intercept IT combined 
with organic growth which contributed increases of £16.6m, 
£7.0m and £1.2m respectively over the previous year. 
On an organic basis the existing Alternative business revenue 
was £39.1m, 3% ahead of the prior year, as a result of growth in 
the first and second half of the year at 5% and 1% respectively. 
Whilst the rate of growth was lower in the second half of the 
year, this lower growth reflects a particularly strong second half 
in 2013. Organic revenue in the second half of 2014 was 17% 
up on the first half of 2014. 
There is good momentum as the level of customer orders 
signed in the second half was 6% ahead of the equivalent prior 
year’s period and 13% ahead of those achieved in the first half. 
This has resulted in a record backlog at 30 September 2014 
(£3.8m in hardware). The revenue growth resulted from all 
Advanced Solutions*
Revenue
2014 2013 Change
Reported Underlying Reported
Non Recurring
   
Hardware / Software
21.1 15.3 15.6 36%
Professional Services
5.9 2.7 2.5 135%
Subtotal
27.0 18.0 18.1 49%
Recurring
   
Maintenance
10.7 10.7 10.6 1%
Data/WAN
6.3 6.3 5.3 19%
Colocation
1.6 - - 100%
Managed Hosting
13.1 - - 100%
Billing
4.0 4.0 3.9 3%
Subtotal
35.6 21.0 19.8 80%
Total 
62.7 39.1 37.9 65%
Gross Margins 2014 2013 Change
Reported Underlying Reported
Hardware / Software
23% 27% 26% -300bps
Professional Services
59% 78% 78% -1900bps
Recurring
45% 38% 43% 200bps
Advanced Solutions
39% 36% 38% 200bps
* In order to facilitate understanding of business performance, the Group splits 
out its operating KPIs, both financial and non-financial into three distinct revenue 
groupings. These are Mobile, Fixed Line and Advanced Solutions. These enable 
users to benchmark the Group’s performance against competitors and enable the 
Board to control more clearly the underlying drivers to the Group’s business. The 
acquisitions of ControlCircle and Intercept IT are reported in Advanced Solutions 
and have no impact on the Mobile or Fixed Line. For avoidance of doubt, the 
business does not operate separate trading divisions but sells a converged product 
offering, with teams of sales and service organised according to customer size as 
previously explained. 11
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
areas, and new orders have been generated across the portfolio 
but there have been some notable areas of success, particularly 
in higher education, where the Group has signed contracts with 
15 universities and 21 colleges during the year. 
As the Group is being successful with larger, more complex 
projects with bigger customers, this often results in a 
lengthening of the sales cycle from order to income recognition, 
and the projects’ complexity inevitably creates a longer delivery 
lead time. Notable contract wins with larger customers included 
a three year agreement with Menzies Distribution for LAN, WAN, 
mobile and voice and unified communication services, of which 
the LAN and WAN and mobile are new services being provided 
by Alternative. The Group has also signed a seven year contract 
with Newsquest to provide managed hosted voices services.
The product data and analysis presented includes the results of 
the acquisitions made during the year as these businesses and 
products are now integrated.
Hardware & Software
Hardware and software revenues comprise all individual non-
recurring direct sales across the Group, and increased 36% to 
£21.1m (2013: £15.6m) due to the inclusion of ControlCircle 
and Intercept IT sales of £5.8m. Gross margins of the 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT hardware and software are at 
similar levels to the remainder of the Group, but two larger deals 
contributed to a reduction in the year. 
Existing Alternative revenues were flat on the prior year, but 32% 
up on the first half, reflecting strong sales of hardware in the 
second half, including a number of installations that occurred 
over the summer. This was a good result and came from 
targeted investment in marketing and customer facing technical 
and selling skills. 
Professional Services
Professional services revenue, which is heavily orientated 
towards the installation of data hardware, increased from 
£2.5m to £5.9m, including the addition of £3.1m of sales from 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT. Existing Alternative sales grew 
by 8% as a result of the high level of hardware orders and more 
complex projects with higher levels of associated installation 
requirements.
The existing Alternative business continues to generate a 
margin of 78%, reflecting the high quality of service offered 
by the Group’s technical experts. The margin on professional 
services of ControlCircle and Intercept IT was lower due to the 
use of third party consultants to complete major contracts.
Maintenance 
Maintenance revenues were broadly in line year on year as the 
Group continues to offer this service as an ongoing component 
of longer term contracts. There has been margin pressure due 
to the competitive environment, however the Group resists 
extreme pricing pressure and has during the year experienced 
the loss of one large customer that was churned due to pricing 
at a level that would have damaged service levels. 
Data/WAN
Data services revenues increased 19% to £6.3m in 2014. This 
growth is across broadband sales to existing customers, single 
site Ethernet sales and from SIP solutions for both existing and 
new customers. Sales were boosted by a number of enterprise 
customers for whom we provide WAN solutions and expanding 
this is a priority in 2015. Margins have remained stable.
Mobile
37%
Fixed Voice
30%
Advanced 
Solutions
33%
Fixed Voice
21%
Mobile
30%
Advanced 
Solutions
49%
2013 Reported 2014 Proforma
2014 
Reported
2014 
Organic
Mobile
32%
Fixed Voice
23% Advanced 
Solutions
45%
Mobile
38%
Fixed Voice
27%
Advanced 
Solutions
34%
Revenue by product 12
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
TRADING REVIEW BY PRODUCTS
Mobile 2014 2013 Change
Revenue (£m) 43.8  42.0 4%
Mobile Bonus Revenue 2.8 3.8 -28%
Gross Profit (£m) 19.0  16.1 18%
Gross Margin % 43.3% 38.3% +500bps
    
KPIs 2014 2013 Change
Subscribers 91,391  81,396 12%
Gross new connections  25,089  19,145 31%
Recurring revenue 89% 87% 2%
Monthly ARPU (£)  39   41 -4%
Monthly ADPU (Mb)  99   68 45%
Monthly average contract 
length 24m 23m +1m
Network churn 14% 15% -100bps
Customer churn by value 11% 13% -200bps
% Subscribers 
in-contract 73% 77% -400bps
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Colocation
Colocation revenue arises purely from ControlCircle and 
consists of recurring provision of datacentre hosting services to 
customers wishing to outsource and create a more flexible cost 
base. This revenue stream is a customer entry point to our data 
centre services and the focus is on then migrating that revenue 
to more added value managed hosting services. ControlCircle 
has a relatively low level of dedicated colocation hosting 
services compared to its competitors.
Managed Hosting
Managed hosting encompasses the Group’s managed services 
offerings in all hosting, cloud and utility services. All revenues 
arise from the ControlCircle and Intercept IT acquisitions. 
Growth in this area is a key focus with both existing and new 
customers and the service offerings and levels provided by 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT are differentiators in the market. 
The ControlCircle contract signed in the year to provide these 
services to the EMEA division of a global insurer will be a 
larger driver in growth in this in 2015. High margins in this area 
represent the added value nature of the services provided.
Billing 
AKJ Billing Services revenues were up 3% to £4.0m (2013: 
£3.9m). This is as a result of further growth in sales to third 
party customers and revenue from providing a hosted 
managed billing service. Intra group work required for Group 
companies at a market value of £0.6m was in line with the 
level in 2013. This includes work on the billing system and 
the support of Synapse. Gross margins at 53% were ahead 
of expectations, as the Group maintained its high customer 
retention level and delivered more consultancy services. The 
increase on the previous year was driven by leveraging the 
existing direct cost to support the increased revenue. 
Telephony Services – Mobile
Mobile revenues
Headline mobile revenues have increased by 4% to £43.8m 
(2013: £42.0m), as the group continues to take significant 
market share. Underlying revenue growth in the year was 8%, 
the difference being due to the change in the commercial 
agreements with the networks, Vodafone and O2, in the year, 
with the reduction of “bonus” revenues as both are now on a 
revenue share basis. The Group will cease to receive connection 
bonuses in exchange for a greater share of the ongoing revenue 
which has impacted the revenue in the second half of the 
financial year and will have a similar impact in the first half of the 
coming financial year. The impact on margin is outlined below. 
These new commercial agreements run until March 2018 when 
they are expected to be renewed. 
There was high growth in the contract base with a 12% 
increase in subscribers to 91,391 since 30 September 2013. 
This is mostly on the back of new connections being over 30% 
higher than the previous year at 25,089 (2013: 19,145), another 
record level for the Group, reaffirming the on-going success in 
winning market share in a flat overall market. The success was 
also underlined by lower churn rates explained below.
Mobile margins
Mobile gross margins have increased significantly to 43.3% 
from 38.3% mostly as a result of the benefits of the new 
commercial arrangements in 2014, but also positive factors 
such as the value added from the Synapse service platform 
and a stabilising of ARPU in the year. The new contracts have 
improved the mobile margin and going forward we expect gross 
margins between 42% and 44%. 13
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Mobile operating KPIs
The performance in the key metrics of Monthly “ARPU” and 
“ADPU” and churn are set out below and represent a strong 
performance in a very competitive market. 
•	 “ARPU” represents the average spends in line rental 
and usage charges per live connection per month in 
the Group’s contracted base of subscribers. ARPU 
has reduced by circa £2 (4%) to £39. The key factors 
underpinning this trend are the reduction in rental charges 
associated with more bundled packages and the price 
deflation seen in this area which is being offset by 
increased data usage with the ongoing shift from voice to 
data usage. Declines in voice ARPU total approximately £2 
ARPU across rental charges. Although roaming data ARPU 
is still dampened by the regulatory changes to roaming 
prices introduced in 2013 the trend has returned to growth 
with roaming outside of the EU driving the ARPU up. It 
is worth noting that the ARPU in H2 was £39; the same 
level as H1. The continuing high growth in data usage is 
beginning to have an impact as set out below:
•	 “ADPU” represents the average data usage per live 
connection per month in the Group’s contracted base 
of subscribers. The average ADPU for the period has 
increased by 45% to 99Mb demonstrating the rapid growth 
in data usage. The growth in data usage can be attributed 
to a number of factors including:
– Increase in the number of “Smartphones” within the 
base with the migration away from standard feature 
phones and Blackberry devices to higher usage 
devices. In the mobile base the average per user 
usage of an Apple handset is circa 250mb of data 
per month compared to 150Mb on a Blackberry 
and circa 30Mb on a standard feature phone. As at 
September 2014, Smartphones represented 69% of 
the subscriber base up from 61% in September 2013.
– The move from 3G to 4G networks. Although the 
penetration remains lower we are seeing early 
adopters ADPU at more than 6 times the average 
usage and 2.5 times that seen on a 3G Apple device.
•	 Churn: 
– Churn by value, which illustrates the retention value 
of all contracted customers to the Group, has 
again improved year on year, at 11% (2013: 13%) 
setting a market leading benchmark, where the 
broader industry sees churn levels of 20% to 25% 
and demonstrates the value the Group provides to 
customers.
– Network churn was 14% which is down 1% reduction 
on 2013 (2013: 15%) and down from the 17% at 
March 2014. This latter trend is due to reducing 
level of network switching (which does not impact 
Alternative’s revenues or margins). This year we 
have also seen a much higher churn on data cards. 
This has happened not surprisingly as the new 
smartphones can act as a tethered hot-spot or 
replace the “dongle” using Bluetooth functionality. The 
impact in value terms on the other churn metric is not 
significant as the ARPU on these data only devices 
is low. Year on year this is an excellent performance 
in a very competitive marketplace where it is easy to 
switch between networks. The generally high retention 
is as a result of the overall customer experience 
covering the service offering and the benefits of 
Synapse.
TRADING REVIEW BY PRODUCTS
Fixed Voice 2014 2013 Change
Revenue (£m) 31.3  34.4 -9%
Gross Profit (£m) 13.7  14.4 -5%
Gross Margin % 44% 42% +200bps
KPIs 2014 2013 Change
Outbbound Monthly 
ARPU (£) 1,421  1,423 -
WLR as a % of total 
revenues 52% 52% -
% recurring revenues 97% 97% -
Number of lines/channels 
(inc. SIP) 70,027 76,643 -6%
SIP lines 7,424 4,076 82%
Average customer 
contract length (months) 24m 22m +2m 14
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The market is two-tier on legacy fixed voice services. The 
networks are still focussing on other carriers’ traffic as well as 
the corporate end user and these are typically in decline by mid 
single digit rates, year on year (4-6%). The resellers and service 
providers are largely migrating their customers away from 
digital and analogue voice to IP services at a faster rate and the 
market trends are for annual revenue reductions in the order of 
low double digit (10-14%). We consider our performance this 
year to be more than satisfactory given the market context.
The Group manages its fixed voice services in the context of 
the declining market place whilst improving market share and 
profitability, and proactively migrates customers to SIP based 
telephony. In the year the number of SIP lines has increased by 
82% from 4,076 to 7,424. 
Overall fixed voice revenues are down 9% year on year to 
£31.3m, as a result of the move to SIP combined with the on-
going market performance. Outbound and inbound revenues 
were down 10% and 8% respectively on the prior year as a 
result of a reduced level of call spends to mobiles, regulatory 
price reductions and the continuing move to email and mobile. 
However, gross margin performance was strong, with an 
increase of 200 basis points to 44%. 
Telephony Services – Fixed Voice
Outbound services  
Outbound revenues decreased 10% to £24.0m (2013: £26.5m). 
The underlying performance was in line with industry trends as 
the reduction in call spends to mobiles, due to regulatory price 
reductions, and a move to email, mobile and IP based telephony, 
continues to cannibalise traditional office based telephony 
revenues. Usage revenues per customer were in line year on year, 
as the Group churn has been generally at the lower level of ARPU 
customers which has offset usage decline.
Outbound ARPU has remained flat at £1,421. Average contract 
periods are now 2 months longer than the prior year increasing 
the viability of future revenues.
Wholesale Line Rental (‘WLR’) revenues declined 10% to £11.7m 
from £14.0m. The number of lines in the estate declined by 8% to 
70,392; some of these were non or low billing analogue lines that 
we have helped customers identify using Synapse. The ongoing 
to transition to SIP has progressed well with an 82% rise in SIP 
lines. 
Inbound services
Inbound services revenue at £7.3m was 8% below the prior year. 
This fall results primarily from a 4% reduction in the customer 
base during the year, including the loss of one large, low margin, 
customer, and a 2% fall in average ARPU. The revenue decline 
stabilised in the second half of the year, with revenues at the 
same level as the first half, as increases in NGN products 
compensated for the reduction in customer traffic revenues. As 
a consequence, whilst gross profit was down 9% to £3.0m year 
on year, it grew 15% in the second half of the year. Gross margins 
for inbound services are broadly level year on year but include the 
changing balance towards NGN in the second half of the year.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 15
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic Review
The financial performance of the Group, including revenues and 
profits and cash flows and net debt is set out in the Financial 
Review. A discussion of the KPIs of the Group are included in 
the Trading Review.
The Group operates in the UK Telecomms and Information 
Technology (IT) market as an IT Managed Services company 
covering the full spectrum between device and datacentre. 
The Group’s strategy remains unchanged and is to deliver 
growth organically and through acquisitions, to become the 
managed IT services provider of choice for UK businesses.
Organic growth 
The Group continues to build successfully on the following four 
key areas of focus to deliver for continued organic growth:
•	 Winning larger customers in the SME space and targeting 
Enterprise customers;
•	 Using service and Synapse combined with acquired 
portals to drive customer retention across the wider 
product set;
•	 Cross-selling and up selling of products across our 
customer base; and
•	 Product development and innovation to increase value to 
our customer base.
Winning larger customers in the SME space and targeting 
Enterprise customers
Our target customers are in the mid enterprise market, 
particularly those customers with multi-sites and with 80 to 
1000 employees. With a broadened product base, there are 
multiple entry points to these customers. 
The Group has two distinct sales and technical support teams 
which target:
•	 Enterprise customers for those customers with more than 
500 employees,
•	 Business Markets customers with up to 500 employees. 
In addition to this we have a partner channel sales arm, which 
is focused on winning smaller customers' business through 
selected partners.
We continue to focus on winning larger customers (a larger 
customer being classified as having a monthly spend in 
excess of £1,000). Going forward, the data will include the 
acquired customer bases, but for the purposes of immediate 
comparison, the data below is for the underlying base. 
At the period end the Group had 1,136 larger enterprise 
customers (30 September 2013: 1,157). 82 new larger 
customers were added during the year and 76 existing 
customers increased their monthly spend above the £1,000 
threshold. 53 larger customers churned during the period and 
126 decreased spend below the threshold. The proportion of 
large customers to the total base has increased from 35% to 
37%.
We continue to focus on 
winning larger customers  16
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The average monthly spend of these customers increased 
5% to £5,663 (2013: £5,408). Given that the general trend for 
customer spend is deflationary, the increase is testament to the 
Group’s success in cross-selling new products and attracting 
larger customers.
As at September 2014 ControlCircle had 58 customers, of 
which 54 are large (billing more than £1,000 per month), and 
Intercept IT had a total of 83 customers, of which 46 are 
considered to be large. 
Using service and Synapse combined with acquired 
portals to drive improved customer retention across the 
wider product set
The acquisition of ControlCircle and Intercept IT brought 
customer portals to the Group that complement Synapse and 
give complete coverage from device to datacentre. We have 
started the process of bringing these together, with all customer 
facing portals now available from the Synapse homepage. 
These additional portals have delivered a significant expansion 
of our visibility and control suite which is a key platform for 
Alternative’s customer engagement strategy. 
Development of Synapse
The primary focus for Synapse during the year has been 
improving the customer end user experience. The main 
improvements were around performance and reporting, dealing 
with many specific requests. Synapse continues to contribute 
positively to our above market mobile growth (8% revenue 
growth versus Ofcom decline of 1%), and to complement this 
we have directly integrated Synapse into Wandera’s Mobile Data 
Optimisation tool. 
Delivering customer led improvement and a targeted 
communications plan has delivered strong usage metrics in 
2014:
•	 Monthly usage has grown 25% to more than 15,000 logins 
per month
•	 More than 1,000 customers with 2,000 users per month 
with increased usage with both Enterprise and Business 
Markets customers
•	 50% of SIM free orders and 22% of overall tickets now fully 
automated through Synapse
•	 4,000 Mobile SIM transactions performed direct by 
customers each month 
•	 Live Chat usage has increased 100% since last year
Further improvements to Synapse in 2014/15
Mobility is the key theme for Synapse development in the next 
year, both in terms of the management of a mobile fleet, and the 
provision of access to core features 'on the go'. This will provide 
customers greater visibility and control, delivering improved 
flexibility, cost savings and productivity. 
'On the go' access to Synpase will also be introduced this year, 
the initial focus will be features such as Mobile SIM management 
(barring), mobile bolt-ons, alerts and current spend. We are 
also looking to extend the Live Chat experience to mobile too, 
so that customers can interact directly with their support team, 
regardless of location.  
Monthly usage of Synapse 
has grown 25%, with Live 
Chat usage increasing 
100% since last year 
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 17
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Wider development of acquired portals
The acquisition of ControlCircle brought the Max 3000 portal 
into the Alternative Group and Intercept IT gave us the customer 
portal ControlPanel. Further development of these portals is part 
of the ongoing strategy, and since acquisition there have been 
the following developments:
•	 Launch of MaxCloud to allow the monitoring as a service for 
Amazon Web Services
•	 Developments to Hybrix will allow seamless orchestration 
with AWS and private environments alongside existing, 
which will allow a customer to spin up a virtual machine, 
wherever they want 
Alternative Business Cloud 
The acquisitions and the tooling we already have in place have 
created the foundations for a combined platform – Alternative 
Business Cloud. This will be the next generation of our portal, 
aimed at both staff and customers alike and covering our entire 
portfolio. It will be a vehicle to bring all our products and services 
into the cloud to deliver our proposition moving forward.
Cross-selling and up selling of products across our 
customer base
A key part of our organic growth strategy remains to exploit 
cross-selling opportunities within the group to improve product 
penetration and sell more, higher value products to both new 
and existing customers, and again we have seen a sustained 
resilience in high product penetration. The acquisitions of 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT have also significantly enhanced 
the Group’s ability to cross-sell in 2014, as proven by the base 
customer statistics. 
Within the underlying Alternative base the number of customers 
taking more than one product year on year has been retained 
at 46% and the proportion taking five or more products has 
increased from 5% to 7%. 
Of the customers who churned in the year, more than 50% were 
billing less than £100 per month (average of £430 per month), 
whereas of the customers won during the year, only 24% were 
billing less than £100 per month. The average billing for new 
customers to the Group was circa £2,000 per month, more than 
four times the average churned customer level. 
Product development and innovation to increase value to 
our customer base 
The integration of the product and service teams of the Group 
with the acquired teams is complete and we have been working 
to unify the Group portfolio under a common set of service 
description documentation and terms and conditions. 
The main developments in the year can been seen in the table 
overleaf. 18
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Next 6 months Next 6 months Next 6 months
In the next period our commitment to 
competitiveness and development of innovative 
tariffs continues. 
Our technology development will improve access 
for mobile users to corporate networks. Mobile 
technology will also be used to expand customer 
connectivity via M2M functionality. 
Our focus on supporting customers in their 
migration from traditional ISDN to the next 
generation of voice services will continue in the 
next period. 
We will work to increase the level of control and 
value that customers receive from Alternative voice 
services. 
Over the next period we will continue to invest 
in our UCaaS product line, leveraging the wider 
group capabilities to increase differentiation and 
target the enterprise market. 
Development of our cloud based ‘as a Service’ 
products and managed service remains a focus 
as we move into 2015. Our objective is to reduce 
technical complexity of solutions for customers in 
per user consumption models. 
Alternative Business Cloud 
will be our next generation 
of portal, aimed at both 
customers and staff alike
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
MOBILE VOICE ADVANCED SOLUTIONS
Year to September 2014 Year to September 2014 Year to September 2014
Mobile product development has focused on 
services that improve security of corporate data 
and protect against financial exposure, due to 
increased mobile data consumption. Our service 
portfolio now includes: 
Mobile Device Management
to securely manage devices. 
Mobile Application Management 
to ensure users have access to appropriate 
business applications.
Mobile Data Offloading 
to manage mobile data usage. 
Our commitment to market competitiveness has 
remained strong with continued focus on tariffing 
and data sharing packages that have seen high 
levels of uptake. 
With a higher than usual change to regulatory 
status, due in the next period, Alternative has 
focused on ensuring customer readiness for 
the impending changes. Informing customers 
of the practical implications of the changes and 
establishing strategies to adapt. 
Our IP Trunking (SIP) business has grown steadily 
further to a re-invigorated proposition. 
The integration of the SIP proposition into a Unified 
Communications as a Service (UCaaS) product will 
support continued growth. The product meeting 
customer demand for a simpler consumption 
based UC model. 
The launch of MITEL’s, MiCloud UCaaS 
product, delivers a cloud based UC solution that 
complements the Group’s wider cloud based 
capability. The service allows customers to 
consume UC on a per user per month basis. 
The cloud based product allowing SIP and WAN 
services to be delivered as part of the solution, 
reducing the complexity of deployment for a 
customer. 
HP Ethernet switching products have also been 
introduced to the portfolio extending our reach into 
the SME market and complimenting the existing 
Juniper and Extreme portfolio. 
Developments in 2014 19
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Acquisitions
The Group successfully completed two acquisitions in January 
2014, in line with the above strategy. The first business 
acquired was Intercept IT which has two core propositions; it 
is an established provider of hosted desktop solutions to the 
UK SME market SMEs; and it consults, designs, builds and 
runs ‘on premise’ managed solutions for Enterprise customers 
requiring datacentre virtualisation and cloud based desktop 
services. The second business acquired was ControlCircle a 
provider of complex hosting, cloud and datacentre services to 
enterprise customers. Both acquisitions met the Group’s long 
standing and consistently strict criteria for acquisitions which 
are as follows:
•	 targets must be successful, growing, highly cash 
generative, and profitable;
•	 they need to have customers that provide cross-selling 
opportunities for the Group; and
•	 they need to be earnings enhancing in the first full year of 
ownership. 
The Group’s cash generative nature has facilitated the 
significant reduction in net debt since the acquisitions. This, 
combined with the strong balance sheet leaves us well 
placed to capitalise on further opportunities and the Group 
continues to monitor the market proactively for further “right-fit” 
acquisitions. Acquisitions are being targeted to complement 
the existing products and to further expand our capabilities and 
product set in the Advanced Solutions area, with a focus on 
managed and hosted services. While we remain on the lookout 
for exceptional opportunities, we expect our activity in this area 
to increase in the second half of 2015.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Managing the financial, operational and reputational risks across 
our business and operations is critical to our success. Below 
we highlight the identified key areas of risk that are monitored 
on an ongoing basis. The Group’s risk management framework 
requires a regular review of the key risks facing the Group.
Contracts with suppliers
The Group resells the products of its suppliers and whilst many 
of the Group’s products are supplier agnostic and there exists 
a freedom to substitute various suppliers’ products, the Group 
acknowledges that it has reliance in particular on the contracts 
with the mobile networks, O2 and Vodafone. During the course 
of this year, the Group has extended its managed service 
agreement until 30 September 2015, and had extended the O2 
service provision agreement until 31 July 2015. The Vodafone 
service agreement runs until 31 March 2014.
The Group mitigates this risk by maintaining strong relationships 
with its suppliers at various levels of the business, as well as 
paying close attention to ensuring the expectations of suppliers 
are met, and where possible exceeded. 
Acquisition integration execution
The Group has set out that its strategy includes the acquisition 
of businesses where they are earnings enhancing. The Board 
acknowledges that there is a risk of operational disturbance 
in the course of integrating acquired businesses with existing 
operations. The Group mitigates this risk by careful planning, 
rigorous due diligence and segregation of the target operations 
where possible. Where there is full integration of acquired 
businesses, the Group receives a report on the effectiveness of 
the integration and variances from business plan.  20
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
All acquisitions to date have been fully integrated, with the 
exception of AKJ where an independent IT infrastructure is 
essential to its customer offering.
Technological change 
The Group operates in a market of rapid and dynamic 
technology changes, and there is a risk that the Group fails 
to secure the necessary contracts to supply its customers 
with a new technology (disruptive) which substitutes existing 
technology. 
The Group mitigates this risk by maintaining close relationships 
with its suppliers, and by employing a product marketing 
team whose duties include research, review and procurement 
of appropriate new technology products for testing prior to 
release to our customers.
Ability to continue to attract and retain key 
sales and customer management executives 
The Group is a direct sales and marketing business and 
whilst the revenues of the Group are largely recurring on a 
monthly basis, the Group depends on being able to recruit and 
retain staff of the right calibre in order to win and service key 
contracts. 
The Group has sought to mitigate this risk by investing in a 
succession and training plan for career development, and 
improving the employee benefits and remuneration over the 
last three years, including commissions, and specifically share 
options and pension contributions. 
The Board monitors the results of exit interviews, recruitment 
statistics and staff attrition by department on a regular basis. 
Regulatory risk
The Group acknowledges that the pricing of products and 
services can be affected by regulatory bodies in the UK and 
the EU. In recent years, pence per minute pricing from fixed to 
mobile destinations and EU Roaming mobile voice and data 
retail prices have been substantially altered.  
The Board believes that where the pricing regulations are 
directed at wholesale prices, the Group is more able to mitigate 
the risk through its own buying and pricing policies. Where the 
regulator imposes price caps at the retail level, the Group is 
more exposed to a reduction in margin where the operators do 
not substantially reduce their wholesale prices. 
The Group mitigates the risks by careful and detailed research 
on the future regulations, and has been involved in lobbying 
where applicable. The Group will assess each risk and build it 
into its forecasts of income as soon as possible and will amend 
its pricing policies accordingly.
Fresh from a management buyout in 2012, the UK Top 40 
insurance broker Lark turned its attention to technology. 
Lark’s aim was to create a more dynamic, resilient and 
adaptive infrastructure across the organisation—one that 
reinvented the user experience via improved performance 
and new technology, transformed the disaster recovery 
plans using data replication, and provided enhanced 
enterprise mobility. The desired business outcome? Make 
it easier for Lark to deliver ‘made to measure’ insurance 
services, dedicated to customer service and building 
personalised, lasting customer relationships that also 
support the onboarding of future acquisitions.
Alternative acquisitions form centrepiece of Lark’s 
managed service solution
An existing satisfied customer for Alternative’s networking 
and telecommunications solutions, Lark turned to 
Alternative to design, deploy and manage this innovative 
infrastructure. Alternative drew on its existing resources 
and skills—coupled with its recent acquisitions of 
Case Study
Lark leaps forward with unified, end-to-end managed 
service from Alternative  21
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
IT environment and control risk
The Group is increasingly dependent on IT systems for 
delivering its products and services and for retaining 
customers, as well as for running the operations of the Group. 
To date, the Group has used its own internal expertise together 
with external consultants, where necessary, to build its own 
IT infrastructure and software products, and is continuing to 
invest each year in improving its systems and adding more 
resilience. The Board believes the Group mitigates the IT 
control risks in a number of ways. 
Firstly, it employs a broad range of highly skilled IT personnel 
and ensures that there is a succession and retention plan 
associated with these highly talented individuals. 
Secondly, the Board directs its external auditors to focus on 
the IT environment in its control testing at the annual audit, 
and also instructs additional internal audit where required. 
Recommendations from both sets of audits are tracked 
through by the Board. 
Thirdly, the Group operates best practise in its adherence 
with standards issued by the International Organisation for 
Standardisation. Currently, the Group has accreditation for: 
– ISO 27001: Information Security Management; ISO9001: 
Quality Management; ISO 14001: Environmental Management 
and ISO 22301: Business Continuity Management, in the 
majority of its operating divisions. In order to retain these 
accreditations, the IT control environment is regularly reviewed 
by the British Standards Institute.
The Board is confident that there is a satisfactory framework 
for monitoring, assessing and reporting on these risks. There is 
also a robust regular framework for reporting on predictive KPIs 
in the business.
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2014
ControlCircle and Intercept IT—to develop a unified, 
‘device to data centre’ managed service. 
End-to-end managed service geared to performance, 
resilience and lower cost
As part of the £2 million managed services contract, 
Alternative is moving Lark’s data to a high availability, 
high performance data centre environment, which 
includes scalable storage-on-demand. A state-of-the-
art virtual desktop solution comes courtesy of Intercept 
IT, and to complement the private cloud, Lark’s existing 
multi-protocol label switching (MPLS) network is being 
connected to the new resilient data centres. All of this will 
be managed and controlled by ControlCircle.
A new dimension
This end to end managed service solution is set to 
redefine the way Lark manages its business. The 
resilient, high performance and adaptive IT infrastructure 
will support the roll-out of Lark’s broking applications, 
improving performance using newer technology. It will 
also enable Lark to focus its skills and resources on doing 
what it does best— providing customers with a dedicated 
personalised service — while leaving the management of 
its IT infrastructure in the hands of Alternative. 22
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Financial Officer’s Review
Gavin Griggs
Chief Financial Officer
Bank facilities
As part of the funding of the acquisitions, the Group 
renegotiated its financing facilities extending from £6m to 
£43m. The structure of the facility is split equally between two 
lenders and is made up of a £23m term facility repayable in 
instalments by July 2017 and a revolving credit facility of £20m 
expiring in January 2018. The margin over LIBOR is based on 
a leverage grid from 2.25% to 3.25%. It is expected that the 
average margin payable in the 2015 financial year will be below 
2.5% based on current forecasts. In the 2015 financial year 
there are two payments against the term loan of £2.5m each to 
be made in January 2015 and July 2015.
The year-end net debt balance was £29.3m as compared to 
a net cash balance of £17.2m at 30 September 2013. This is 
after £52.3m gross costs on the two acquisitions and paying 
dividends of £6.6m. The net debt level is down from a peak 
of £40.8m at the time of the acquisitions and in line with the 
target of £30.0m as set by the Board.
After considering the Group’s financial projections, available 
borrowing facilities, covenants on borrowing facilities and other 
relevant financial matters, the Board is satisfied that on the date 
of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Non-recurring charges
As a result of the acquisitions the Group incurred non-recurring 
charges of £2.0m. This comprised of £1.4m relating directly 
to acquisition related charges including stamp duty and due 
diligence fees, and a further £0.6m related to the subsequent 
restructuring and redundancy charges.
Finance costs
Finance costs were £1.2m (2013: £0.1m) driven by the Group’s 
new debt facilities in place for the majority of the year. At 
September 2014 the margin applied to this facility had fallen 
to 2.75% over LIBOR based on the leverage position of the 
balance sheet, and so we expect the run rate finance cost to 
decrease in 2015. 
Tax
The effective tax rate for the year was 22.0% (2013: 22.6%). 
This is in line with the main rate of corporation tax of 22.0% 
expected for the year (2013: 23.5%). This results from the 
benefit of a claim for allowable research and development 
expenditure being offset by high disallowable expenditure 
incurred in the year. 
Earnings per share 
Basic adjusted earnings per share has increased by 9% from 
24.7p to 26.9p. Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) has increased by 15% to 26.4p (2013: 22.9p). The 
statutory or unadjusted fully diluted earnings per share has 
decreased 16% from 19.7p to 16.6p. 23
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The weighted average number of shares in the year used for 
calculating the basic earnings per share has increased by 
2,214,296. This is outlined in Note 11. In the prior financial year 
there were 3,100,000 shares relating to the VCP scheme that 
were potentially dilutive for 250 (on average) days of the year 
which added 2,100,000 shares to the dilutive share number. 
There were also 1,200,000 of potentially dilutive shares from 
the EBT (1 x 638,400 for the full year, 1 for 99 days and one for 
341 days). This effectively increases the number of shares in 
the diluted calculation relating to the VCP/EBT by 3,300,000. 
In the current financial year there are no shares relating to the 
VCP scheme and 578,000 shares relating to the EBT. The fully 
diluted number of shares has decreased by 395,160 due to 
the conversion of options to shares under the EBT and VCP 
schemes.
Cash flow
The focus on cash performance remains a high priority and this 
has extended to the acquired entities. The organic business 
cash performance continues to be strong with the underlying 
cash generated from operations at 98% of adjusted EBITDA 
(2013: 106%). For the acquired businesses, after an anticipated 
working capital injection at the time of the acquisition, the 
underlying performance is above 100% as we look to improve 
the working capital position. Overall, the Group underlying cash 
generated from operations conversion to adjusted EBITDA is 
99%.
Cash inflow from operations was £16.2m (2013: £14.4m), 
compared to adjusted EBITDA of £19.6m (2013: £15.9m). 
This represents a cash conversion of adjusted EBITDA of 
83% (2013: 91%). Within this there were a number of one-
off movements: a working capital injection into one of the 
acquired business of £0.9m, the cash payment of a previously 
accrued LTIP relating to the AKJ acquisition of £0.4m and a 
non-recurring of £2.0m related to the acquisitions. Removing 
these non-recurring, non-standard items from working capital 
cash flows results in cash generated of £19.5m (2013: £16.8m) 
and an underlying cash conversion of adjusted EBITDA of 99% 
(2013: 106%).
Management continues to place significant emphasis on 
managing working capital and cash performance, resulting in a 
five-year cumulative cash conversion of 105%.
Reconciliation of Basic EPS –   
Statutory to Adjusted 
2014
(pence)
2013
(pence)
Reported basic EPS at 30 September 16.9 21.2 
Amortisation of acquired assets/
intangibles (taxed) 5.8 3.1 
Tender offer costs - 0.4 
Other Exceptional costs 4.2 -
Adjusted Basic EPS at 30 September 26.9 24.7
Operating Cash Flow
Group (£m) Organic (£m) Acquisitions (£m) Group (£m)
30 Sept 2014 30 Sept 2014 30 Sept 2014 30 Sept 2013
Operating profit 11.5 9.6 1.9 12.4
Depreciation and amortisation 5.5 4.6 0.9 2.8
Share and other costs 0.4 0.4 (0.8)
Movement in working capital (1.3) (0.5) (0.8) 0.00
Cash generated from operations 16.2 14.2 2.0 14.4
Non recurring acquisition related costs 2.0 1.8 0.2 
Acquisition working capital 0.9 0.9 
NI on LTIP payments  0.9
Contingent consideration to existing employees 0.4 0.4 0.4
Supplier payment timing difference  1.1
Underlying cash generated from operations 19.5 16.4 3.1 16.8
Adjusted EBITDA 19.6 16.8 2.9 15.9
Underlying cash conversion 99% 98% 107% 106%
Reported cash conversion 83% 84% 69% 91% 24
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Capital expenditure
The Group invested £2.1m (2013: £1.3m) in tangible fixed 
assets and intangible software assets during the year, of which 
£0.6m was spend associated with the acquired businesses, 
leaving £1.5m underlying spend. Of the total spend £0.4m was 
spent on IT hardware, including £0.3m on equipment installed 
in a third party data centre to host managed services for 
customers and support the Group’s IT infrastructure.
In 2015 we estimate investing £2.0m across the Group on 
routine capital expenditure, in line with the level in 2014, the 
key focus areas being further investment in a consolidated 
customer portal service, expanding on the existing Synapse 
functionality (£0.6m) and investments in the existing CRM 
platform to improve our service to customers and reduce 
operating costs. 
In addition for 2015 there will be one-off costs associated 
with the fit out of new office space and extensions to data 
centre capabilities. The latter includes the delayed relocation of 
Intercept IT infrastructure into a third party datacentre managed 
by ControlCircle, which was deferred prior to acquisition. 
These are expected to incur a maximum cost of £2.2m and 
£0.5m respectively, and be funded by the disposal of leasehold 
property, which will give rise to an excess cash inflow of 
approximately £3.0m. 
Dividend per share 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 9.6 pence per 
share (2013: 8.6 pence per share) making a total ordinary 
dividend of 14.5 pence per share for the full year (2013: 13.0 
pence per share). 
The dividend will be paid on 30 January 2015 to shareholders 
on the register as of 30 December 2014, with an “ex-dividend” 
date of 29 December 2014. 
Gavin Griggs
Chief Financial Officer
9 December 2014 
This Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on 
its behalf by:
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2014
Year ended 
30 Sept 2014
Year ended 30 
Sept 2013
£m £m
Cash generated from operations 16.2 14.4
Taxation (1.4) (2.9)
Capital Expenditure (2.1) (1.3)
Finance Cost (net) (1.1) (0.1)
Free cash flow 11.7 10.3
Dividends (6.6) (7.4)
Share options exercised - 0.9
Payments made for share buy-backs - (6.8)
Acquisitions (net of cash acquired) (50.9) (0.4)
Proceeds from borrowings 35.0 -
Repayments of borrowings (2.7) -
Loan transaction costs (0.7) -
Year ended 
30 Sept 2014
Year ended 30 
Sept 2013
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and 
cash equivalents (14.1) (3.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of 
period 17.9 21.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end 
of period 3.7 17.9
Bank loans (33.1) (0.7)
Net (debt)/cash (29.3) 17.2
Strategic Report
Chief Financial Officer’s Review continued
Cash Flow Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors  26
Directors and Advisers  28
Directors’ Report 29
Corporate Governance Report  33
Remuneration Report  37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41 26
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
James Murray
Executive Chairman
James Murray co-founded Alternative Networks in 1994 
following the deregulation of the British telecom’s industry 
and having worked in both technical and sales for a number 
of London telecoms businesses. As managing director, 
CEO and now executive chairman, James has overseen 
the growth of the business from start-up, to becoming one 
of the leading independent business technology service 
providers in the UK. James is a previous winner of Ernst and 
Young’s “Young Entrepreneur of the Year” Award. 
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
Edward Spurrier was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2013. 
He joined Alternative Networks as the Finance Director in February 1999, 
having previously advised the Board as a consultant for four years. 
In the early years, he established the majority of operating functions 
and systems in the business, overseeing a period of sustained growth 
without external finance, and becoming Chief Financial Officer in 2003. 
Since Alternative listed on AIM in 2005, he consistently led the Group’s 
finance, IT, legal and business development teams, and has driven and 
implemented the Group’s strategy, a period in which Alternative has 
made a number of successful acquisitions.
A member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales, Edward trained and qualified at Coopers and Lybrand (now 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP) in London. Prior to joining Alternative, he 
had over 12 years’ prior experience in public practice, with a focus on 
advising entrepreneurs on managing growth. 
Gavin Griggs
Chief Financial Officer
Gavin Griggs was appointed to the Board in April 2013. 
He joined Alternative from Logica plc, where he was Group 
Financial Controller. Prior to that, Gavin held divisional finance 
director roles at Sodexo and PepsiCo, and was Head of Group 
Finance, Planning and Analysis at SABMiller. In addition to 
heading up the finance function, Gavin’s responsibilities include 
M&A and legal functions within the Group. He is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and has Bachelors and Masters 
Degrees in Chemical Engineering from Bradford University.
Mark Quartermaine
Chief Operating Officer
Mark has more than 30 years’ experience in the ICT industry in a variety 
of executive, sales and marketing roles. He joined IBM in 1984 and spent 
16 years in various roles, including running the point of sale business 
for Europe and latterly in the US as the Worldwide Marketing Director 
for the Retail Division. Since leaving IBM in 2001 Mark has served as 
COO on the board of NSB Retail and has held various roles at BT Global 
Services, including MD of Public Sector as well as the UK President. 
He was recently CEO at Azzurri Communications and a Non-Executive 
director at Prologic plc, which was successfully sold in 2012. Before 
joining Alternative, Mark was Vice President of UK & Ireland for Juniper 
Networks and sat on Alternative Networks’ non-executive board until 
January 2014. 27
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Bernard Cragg
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director
Bernard Cragg has 30 years’ commercial and City experience. A 
qualified chartered accountant, he was the Finance Director and CFO of 
Carlton Communications plc from 1987 until 2001. He joined the board 
of Arcadia in 1999 and became chairman of its audit committee, and 
Senior Independent Director until its eventual sale in 2002. He was a 
non-executive director of Bank of Ireland UK Financial Services Limited 
(including Bristol & West Building Society) from 2002 until 2007. In 2003 
he became chairman of business information company, Datamonitor plc 
where he served until its eventual sale in 2007.
He is the senior independent director and chairman of the audit 
committee of Progressive Media plc and held the same position with 
Workspace Group plc until stepping down in 2014. Bernard is a non-
executive director of Astro All Asia Networks Limited, Astro Malaysia 
Holdings Berhad, Astro Overseas Limited and Framestore and is 
Chairman of US based media company, Psyop LLC.
Ben Mingay
Non-executive Director
Ben Mingay was appointed to the Board in 2011. An 
experienced corporate financier, he is a Senior Partner and 
co-founder of Smith Square Partners LLP , an independent 
corporate advisory business. He was previously a Managing 
Director at Credit Suisse First Boston and a Partner of 
Hawkpoint Partners. Ben is also a non-executive Director of 
HomeServe plc.
Henrietta Marsh
Non-executive Director
Henrietta Marsh was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
6 June 2014. She has significant public company experience having served 
as a Non-Executive Director (and chairing the Remuneration Committee) at 
Dods (Group) PLC from April 2012 to November 2014, been an independent 
Non-Executive Director at Acal plc since May 2013 and chairing the 
Remuneration Committee since October 2014, and been a Non-Executive 
Director of Electric World plc since January 2014. She is also a Director of 
Henrietta Marsh Consulting Limited. Previously, Henrietta was a director 
of 3i plc where she worked as a fund manager and in private equity for 14 
years. She was also a fund manager at Living Bridge responsible for all AIM 
investments and remains an Operating Partner there. Henrietta was the 
founder chairman of the AIM VCT Managers Group and is a member of the 
London Stock Exchange’s AIM Advisory Group.  Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Directors and Advisers
28
Executive Directors
J Murray
E Spurrier
G Griggs
M Quartermaine
Non-executive Directors
B Cragg
B Mingay
H Marsh 
Company Secretary
G Griggs
Registered office
Chatfield Court
56 Chatfield Road
London
SW11 3UL
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5HP
Principal legal advisors
Bird & Bird LLP
15 Fetter Lane
London
EC4A 1JP
Corporate brokers
Investec
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Registrar
Capita IRG
7th floor Phoenix House
18 King William Street
London
EC4N 7HE
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 28 The Directors present their report and audited financial statements of Alternative Networks plc and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for
the year ended 30 September 2014.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group continues to be provision of IT managed services and independent business-to-business
communications. 
As a service provider, the Group supplies a range of services including managed network services, managed hosting, mobile
phone and data services, internet and broadband services, non-geographic number services and a variety of core information
technology services. The Group also supplies, installs and maintains business telephone systems and associated integrated
communications applications. In terms of billing services, the Group provides software and consultancy specialising in the
telecommunications industry. 
The principal activity of the Company is business communications focused on service provision. The Company registration number
is 02888250.
Dividends
The Company paid a 2014 interim dividend of 4.9 pence (2013: 4.4 pence) per 0.125p ordinary share, with a total payment value
of £2,370,000 (2013: £2,134,000). This was paid on 18 July 2014 to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014.
The Company did not pay a special second interim dividend in 2014 (2013: 4.00 pence per 0.125p ordinary share, with a total
payment value of £1,940,000).
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2014 of 9.6 pence
(2013: 8.6 pence) per 0.125p ordinary share which will absorb an estimated £4,600,000 (2013: £4,194,000) of shareholders’
funds. It will be paid on 30 January 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members at 30 December 2014.
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signing these financial statements are given below:
J Murray
E Spurrier
G Griggs
J Sewell (resigned 30 April 2014)
M Quartermaine (appointed 12 May 2014)
B Cragg
B Mingay
H Marsh (appointed 6 June 2014)
The Company purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself
and its Directors.
Share schemes
The Directors believe that a key element in attracting, motivating and retaining employees of the highest calibre is employee
involvement in the performance of the Group through participation in employee share schemes. By doing so, the Directors believe
that employees’ interests will be more closely aligned with those of the shareholders. The schemes are described in the
Remuneration Report.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Report
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
29
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 29 Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 December 2014 significant shareholders (those with over 3% shareholding) are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Percentage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of issued
Shareholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Holdings              share capital
Chris Wilson                                                                                                                                                 4,372,649              8.8%
BlackRock Investment Management                                                                                                             3,715,770              7.5%
Hargreave Hale                                                                                                                                             3,403,654              6.9%
James Sewell                                                                                                                                               2,828,899              5.7%
Octopus Investments                                                                                                                                    2,752,786              5.5%
Investec Wealth & Investment                                                                                                                       2,403,825              4.8%
Alternative Networks EBT                                                                                                                             3,034,090              4.0%
Herald Investment Management                                                                                                                   1,806,520              3.6%
F&C Asset Management                                                                                                                               1,739,202              3.5%
Directors’ shareholdings are shown in the remuneration report.
Corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) statement 
The Group is committed to operating in a socially and environmentally responsible manner and structures its policies, initiatives and
practices accordingly, as the business evolves.
Employees
The Directors believe that the Group’s employees are a source of competitive advantage and recognise that continued and
sustained improvement in the performance of the Group depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain employees of the
highest calibre. 
The Group is committed to the principle of equality of opportunity in employment and seeks to ensure that no employee or
applicant is treated less favourably on the grounds of age, disability, gender, gender reassignment, pregnancy, maternity, race,
sexual orientation, religion or belief, or because they are married or in a civil partnership or is disadvantaged by conditions or
requirements which cannot be objectively justified. 
Entry into and progression within the Group are solely determined by the application of job criteria, personal attitude and
competence.
It is the Group’s policy to apply best practice in the employment of disabled people. Full and fair consideration is given to every
application for employment from people with disabilities whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and to their
training and career development. This includes, wherever possible, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled
during their employment.
All employees are informed of matters concerning their interest as employees and the financial and economic factors affecting the
business. The Company maintains established communication channels: management forums and briefings, conferences, weekly
employee newsletter and the Company intranet as well as team and individual meetings.
The Group strives to create an enjoyable, challenging and progressive employee experience where a healthy work/life balance and
general well-being is encouraged supported by a flexible reward and benefits package.
The Group places great importance upon training and development and has a well-established in-house learning and development
academy which supports career progression and development. Over 58% of Group employees have been promoted into people
management roles internally. 41% of our employees have worked for us for more than five years and 17% for ten years or more. 
Effective two-way communication, teamwork and collaboration are also critical in creating an engaging, positive and productive
work environment. The Group informs employees of the activities and performance of the business through annual Group events,
face to face briefings, weekly newsletters and Directors operating an open-door policy. Exit interview feedback and new starter
surveys are reviewed to ensure any potential concerns can be identified and managed at an early stage.
Our environmental commitment
The Group appreciates the importance of sound environmental practice and the need to increase awareness and change
behaviour amongst employees. The majority of Group companies are certified to ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management. It
aims to share responsibility for improving the Group’s practices with employees to progressively reduce its environmental impact.
As part of our continued improvement programme, we completed the EU commissioned sustainability support programme through
their partner Carbon Smart.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Report continued
30
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 30 Recycling of unavoidable waste is considered a priority and in 2014 we maintained a steady level of recycling sustaining the
improvements from last year. The Group continues to recycle paper, cans, plastic, cardboard, computer equipment, toner
cartridges, batteries and mobile phones. We have continued to control our energy consumption and have completed “switch it off”
initiatives in all locations.
Although some travel to and between offices is inevitable, the Group is committed to reducing the environmental impact of
transportation. The Group’s main offices have continued to develop and extend the use of video-conferencing facilities which
reduces the need to visit other sites. In addition, role permitting, we support home working.
The Group encourages employees to use environmentally friendly transport options by restricting flights between offices, using rail
travel as an alternative to driving wherever practical and has introduced a Ride to Work Scheme. Scheduling of field engineers
together with remote access capability also minimises time spent on the road, and public transport and/or overnight stays (hotels)
are encouraged for engineers where this is an alternative to excessive additional mileage.
Where possible, we source environmentally friendly products and services, including paper made from sustainable resources and
energy efficient appliances. All new Company cars leased by the company continue to have energy saving technologies and
carbon emissions below 120gm.
Community involvement and charitable donations
The Group has chosen to forge links with local charities at each Company location which are coordinated by the Group wide
Charity Committee. 
During the year, donations of £13,347 (2013: £11,422) were made to charities. The Group supports its employees’ charitable
endeavours through sponsorship and during the year employees participated in fundraising activities raising additional donations of
£14,021 (2013: £35,569), taking the total to £27,368 (2013: £46,991). The Group actively encourages employees to participate in
charity events by providing time off and paying event registration fees. 
The chosen charities for 2014 were Help for Heroes, Princess Alice Hospice, Pilgrims Hospice, When You Wish Upon a Star and
Macmillan Cancer Support.
There were no political donations made in the year (2013: nil).
Payment to creditors
The Group has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers. The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters
into binding purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services. Its suppliers are made aware of these terms. The Group
seeks to abide by these payment terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with
the agreed terms and conditions. At 30 September 2014 the amount of trade payables shown in the balance sheet represents
62.1 days of average purchases of the Group (2013: 46.7 days) and 60.3 days for the Company (2013: 49.5). 
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is disclosed within note 23 of the financial statements.
Share repurchase
The Group began its share buyback scheme in 2008. The scheme was entered into as the Group had funds surplus to the
operational requirements of its continuing activities. In arriving at the level of cash available to be returned to shareholders, the
Board took into account the levels of funding remaining in the Group to enable it to meet its working capital requirements.
The Directors will continue to monitor the level of cash required for the business and determine if further repurchases remain in the
shareholders’ best interests.
Going concern
After considering the Group’s financial projections, available borrowing facilities, covenants on borrowing facilities and other relevant
financial matters, the Board is satisfied that on the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The Group’s trading performance has been
discussed in the Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s statements.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
31
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 31 Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors
Each director of the Group, in office at the time of approval of this report, acknowledges that:
•         so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
•         He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the Group will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
By order of the Board.
Gavin Griggs
Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer
9 December 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Report continued
32
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 32 Introduction
The Board of Alternative Networks plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance not only in the areas of
accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to the business. The Board considers that the Group, whilst
trading on the Alternative Investment Market (‘AIM’), has adopted and complied with those requirements of the UK Corporate
Governance Code 2010 (‘the Code’) as best applicable to the Company given its current size. 
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Group and is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery
of strong sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are set out in writing
and have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, setting the agenda for and conducting Board
meetings, ensuring that all Directors receive sufficient, accurate and relevant information on financial business and corporate issues
and maintaining effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the executive management and performance of the Group’s business, the
development, recommendation and implementation of the Group’s strategy and budget and setting the overall policy and direction
of all business operations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions. The specific issues include the Group’s overall strategy, the
Group’s acquisition and divestment policy, approval of key suppliers, approval of major capital expenditure projects and significant
financing matters and all corporate governance and compliance matters. It monitors the exposure to key business risks, reviews
the strategic direction of the business, reviews annual budgets and progress towards achievement of those budgets and reviews
capital expenditure programmes. The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments.
Subject to the matters which it has reserved for itself, the Board has delegated authority for the management of the Group’s
business to the Chief Executive Officer who exercises this authority through delegation to members of the senior management
team.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Chairman and the Board on all matters concerning corporate governance.
He supports the Chairman in ensuring the provision of accurate and relevant information to the Board and for ensuring that there is
a flow of information within the Board and its Committees, and between senior management and non-executive Directors.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors’ and officers’ liabilities. This insurance cover does not
provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
The Board, which is scheduled to meet monthly, met on eleven occasions in the current year, in addition to four off-site strategy
meetings.
                                                                                            No. of
                                                                                       meetings
                                                                                           in year                    JM                     ES                   MQ                     JS                    GG                    BC                   HM                    BM
Board                                                      11            11            11              8              5            11            10              4            11
Strategy Meetings                                     4              4              4              3              2              4              4              2              4
Audit Committee                                       6              2              2              2               –              6              6               –              6
Remuneration Committee                          3              3              3               –              1              2              3               –              3
Nomination Committee                              1              1              1               –               –               –              1               –              1
Board balance and independence
The Board of Directors of the Group comprises an Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and three independent non-
executive Directors. Their biographical details on pages 26 to 27, demonstrate the range of experience and judgement they bring
to bear on Board matters. The Board is satisfied that the executive and non-executive elements of the Board are well balanced,
that no individual or Group is or has been in a position to dominate the Board’s decision making and that there is a substantial
degree of independence and diversity.
All of the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management. Since the appointment of
Henrietta Marsh, all non-executive directors are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement. 
Related party transactions are listed in note 27. 
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance Report
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
33
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 33 Having considered the position of each non-executive Director, the Board is of the view that no current interests or prior interests
of the non-executive Directors will either influence or prejudice their objective and independent judgement or their ability to act in
the best interests of the Group.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive Directors commits sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as a Director
of the Group.
The Board has established a framework for the induction of all newly appointed Directors which includes the provision of corporate
information and meetings with Directors and members of the senior executive team.
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees and has delegated certain responsibilities to each of those
committees. The principal Board committees are the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Remuneration Committee
The membership and a summary of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration
report on page 37.
Audit Committee
During the year the membership of the Committee comprised Ben Mingay (Chairman), Bernard Cragg and Henrietta Marsh. The
members of the Committee are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
Role of the Audit Committee
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing, on behalf of the Board, the financial reporting and internal
control of the Group.
To this end, the Committee is responsible for:
•         Reviewing the form and content and monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements.
•         Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control (including financial, operation and compliance controls
and risk management).
•         Selecting and recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
•         Reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
•         Approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
•         Approving and subsequently reviewing a policy of engagement on the appointment of auditors to supply non-audit services.
•         Agreeing annually with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit process.
Audit Committee meetings
The Committee met on six occasions during the financial year.
Attendees at Committee meetings held included: Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, and representatives of the internal
and external auditors. All of these attended at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
On two of the six occasions the Committee met with the Group’s external auditors in the absence of executive management.
Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to 30 September 2014
The principal issues addressed by the Committee during the year were:
•         The external auditors’ year-end report for 2013, the review of the Group’s preliminary results and annual report disclosures.
•         The external audit plan for the 2014 financial statements which included a review of the audit objectives, scope, timetable,
deliverables and audit fee.
•         The Group’s risk management process.
•         The re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external auditors.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued
34
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 34 •         The Group’s internal audit activities and the effectiveness of internal controls, including the consideration of the internal
auditors’ findings and recommendations and the external auditors’ observations on internal financial controls arising from
their annual audit and interim review.
•         The Group’s internal processes and systems.
•         Risks and Controls of the Group’s recent acquisitions.
•         The appropriateness of the Group’s whistle-blowing policy.
Independence of external Auditors
The Committee has adopted a policy on non-audit services designed to ensure that the provision of such services by the external
auditors does not impair the auditors’ objectivity and independence. The policy is based on the ICAEW Guidance for Audit
Committees and defines both the type and value of services that require prior authorisation of the Committee and the services that
the external auditor is prohibited from providing. The Committee annually reviews all non-audit services provided by the external
auditors to ensure compliance with the policy. The Committee remains satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the
Group’s external auditors.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the Company’s auditors since 2000, nine years of which as auditors of a listed company
(The Group listed in 2005). The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the external auditors on behalf of the Board. It
considers the re-appointment of the external auditors each year, as well as remuneration and other terms of engagement, and
makes a recommendation to the Board. The last competitive audit review was in 2008, when PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were
re-appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Audit Committee. There are no contractual obligations that restrict the
Audit Committee to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
Non-audit services provided by Auditors
The Group’s external auditors may not provide any non-audit service that poses a significant threat to the auditors’ objectivity or
independence. The Group’s auditors have confirmed that they are independent and do so on an annual basis. During the year, with
the approval of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Finance team of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , who are also the Group’s
auditors, provided financial and technical due diligence work to the Group. The fee in respect of this work was £116,000. An
analysis of the fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during 2014 can be found in note 5 to the financial statements.
Whistle blowing
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements for whistle-blowing and has put a policy in place. The policy encourages a
culture of openness and seeks to reassure employees that by reporting issues of concern they will not suffer victimisation or
detriment. Employees are required to raise issues in the first instance with their line manager or, if this is a problem, with the
Human Resources Director or in exceptional cases with the Chief Executive Officer or Chairman of the Audit Committee. The
Group is committed, whenever appropriate, to investigate fully any concern raised in a timely manner and where an investigation
confirms wrongdoing to take the necessary disciplinary or legal action. The Group will, wherever possible and without infringing
confidentiality, keep the “whistleblower” informed of the outcome of enquiries and decisions taken with regard to the matter.
Guidance is also given to raising matters externally.
Nomination Committee
During the year, the membership of the Committee comprised: Bernard Cragg (Chairman), Henrietta Marsh and Ben Mingay. The
members of the Committee are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee met on one occasion and the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were invited to
attend. The Committee meets as necessary to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and to
consider executive and Board succession planning. The Committee has written terms of reference which are available from the
Company Secretary.
Internal control
The Directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal controls and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness. The
Group’s systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Group’s assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within
the business and for publication.
Systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key features of the internal control systems,
which operated throughout the period covered by the financial statements and to the date of signing the financial statements, are
described below.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
35
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 35 The Board has put in place an organisation structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to
executive management. Individuals are formally made aware of their level of authority. The Group appoints experienced and
professional staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Executive managers are required to produce a business plan for approval by the Board prior to the beginning of each financial year
and detailed financial forecasts are formally produced during the year and reviewed by the Board.
Management accounts are produced each month and the financial results are measured against the business plan to identify any
significant variations. The Board discusses financial and operational performance at its monthly meetings.
The Group has a small internal audit function whose responsibilities include ensuring that internal controls are complied with. The
Group’s internal controls framework is reinforced by subsidiaries having successful certification to ISO 27001:2005 the international
Information Security standard, ISO 9001:2008 the international Quality Management standard, ISO 22301:2012 the international
Business Continuity Management standard, ISO 20000:2011 the international IT Services Management standard, ISO 14001:2004
the international Environmental Management standard, and CHAS a nationally recognised Health & Safety accreditation. The Group
is working towards achieving these standards for all Group companies. During the year 18 external ISO audits were conducted by
the British Standards Institute.
The Group procedure for approving and controlling capital expenditure and investment appraisal requires approval of initial capital
expenditure in the budgets by the Board. Approval of budgeted capital expenditure projects is made at various levels of senior
management including the Board where required.
Throughout the year, the Group conducts an ongoing risk management evaluation process covering both financial and non-
financial risks. This involves senior management and executive Directors identifying areas of perceived risk and the existing control
mechanisms in place to monitor those risks. Through a series of management workshops, attended by all executive Directors and
senior executives, the Board has reached consensus on those risks facing the Group that are considered business critical. The
Group has implemented, and continues to implement, actions intended to manage and mitigate those key risks. During 2015, the
Board will continue to review its risks and implement the necessary mitigating steps as those risks evolve and change
Financial reporting
A review of the performance and financial position of the Group is included in the Strategic Report. The Board uses this, together
with the Chairman’s statement and the Directors’ report, to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Group’s position and
prospects. 
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to and recognises the importance of effective communication with shareholders. Ongoing communication
is achieved mainly through the publication of the annual and interim reports, trading statements, the announcement of significant
developments within the Group and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating to trading or the development of the business are released to
the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that dialogue with shareholders takes place and is based on a mutual understanding of
objectives. A series of meetings and presentations take place during the year with institutional investors to review the Group’s
performance and prospects. These presentations are made available via the Company’s website.
The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to meet the Chairman and other Directors, receive an
update on the development of the business and to ask questions of the Board. The Annual Report and financial statements and
the Notice of Annual General Meeting are sent to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to vote on each substantially different issue by the proposal of a separate resolution for each
item of business. The results of the proxy votes received by the Group, including abstentions, are declared at the meeting,
following votes by shareholders on a show of hands.
Bernard Cragg
Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman
9 December 2014 
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued
36
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 36 Scope of the report
The Remuneration report summarises the Group’s remuneration policy and particularly its application in connection with the Directors.
The report also describes how the Group applies the principles of good corporate governance in relation to Directors’ remuneration.
This report is not mandatory for companies listed on the AIM but has been voluntarily included as a matter of best practice. 
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises only non-executive Directors. The Committee meets
regularly to determine, on behalf of the Board, the framework of executive remuneration.
During the year, the membership of the Committee comprised Henrietta Marsh (Chairman from June 2014), Bernard Cragg, Ben
Mingay. Mark Quartermaine was Chairman until his resignation in January 2014. The members of the Committee are considered by
the Board to be independent non-executive Directors. 
During the current year, the Committee met on three occasions. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed regularly and approved by the Board. These are available for inspection at the
Group’s registered address. The members of this Committee do not have any conflicts from cross-directorships that relate to the
business of the Committee. The members do not have any day to day involvement in the running of the Group. 
To assist the work of the Committee, the views of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human
Resources Director are also invited where appropriate. These individuals did not however participate in any decision related to their
own remuneration. Remuneration consultants may also be engaged where appropriate.
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer
on an annual basis and takes into account market rates based on independent advice, as required. The non-executive Directors
concerned do not participate in this process.
Ben Mingay and Henrietta Marsh have fixed one year appointments until 19 January 2015 and 6 June 2015 respectively. It is the
intention of the Board that they will both be reappointed. Bernard Cragg has a fixed three year appointment until 10 December
2015. The appointments may be terminated by either party giving three months’ notice at any time without compensation. 
Henrietta Marsh receives a fee of £34,000 per annum with no pension, bonus, benefits or share options.
Ben Mingay receives a fee of £38,000 per annum with no pension, bonus, benefits or share options.
Bernard Cragg receives a fee of £50,000 per annum with no pension, bonus, benefits or share options.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, pension or benefit scheme.
Directors’ remuneration
                                                                                                                       Salary and                Bonus paid
                                                                                                                     fees paid or                              or                     Pension                         Other
                                                                                                                        receivable                  receivable             contributions                     benefits                 2014 total                  2013 total
                                                                                                                                     £                               £                               £                               £                               £                               £
Ben Mingay                                                             34,675                    –                    –                    –           34,675           34,420
James Murray                                                       285,400                    –           14,400           22,173         321,973         342,475
Edward Spurrier                                                    385,000         233,332           38,500           17,781         674,613         711,048
Henrietta Marsh                                                      10,723                    –                    –                    –           10,723           74,638
Jim Sewell                                                             170,000                    –             1,570           14,975         186,545         372,926
Gavin Griggs                                                         220,000         148,611           22,000           11,370         401,981         150,125
Bernard Cragg                                                        50,000                    –                    –                    –           50,000           40,577
Mark Quartermaine                                               117,532           48,903           10,083             4,341         180,859           24,346
Timothy Holland-Bosworth                                        8,429                    –                    –                    –             8,429           24,850
Totals                                                                 1,281,759         430,846           86,553           70,640      1,869,798      1,775,405
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Remuneration Report
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
37
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 37 Directors’ share options in Alternative Networks plc
                                                  Option              Options at                Awarded                  Options                  Options                 Options                    Option                 Exercise          Performance
                                                scheme                01/10/13                    in year               Exercised                 Forfeited           at 30/09/14                      price                     dates                   Criteria
                                                                               Number                  Number                  Number                  Number                Number                            £
Edward Spurrier        LTIP       139,366                  –                  –                  –       139,366                 nil      7 Feb 16    EPS/Cash
Edward Spurrier        LTIP                  –         91,721                  –                  –         91,721                 nil   31 Dec 16    EPS/Cash
Mark Quartermaine    LTIP                  –         43,536                  –                  –         43,536                 nil    11 Jun 17    EPS/Cash
Jim Sewell                 LTIP         83,257                  –                  –         83,257                  –                 nil      7 Feb 16    EPS/Cash
Gavin Griggs              LTIP         34,920                  –                  –                  –         34,920                 nil    17 Jun 16    EPS/Cash
Gavin Griggs              LTIP                  –         52,412                  –                  –         67,412                 nil   31 Dec 16    EPS/Cash
Gavin Griggs              LTIP                  –         15,000                  –                  –         15,000                 nil    11 Jun 17    EPS/Cash
In addition Edward Spurrier also has interests in the EBT as described on page 39. 
Zero options vested during the year.
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was £nil (2013: £9,906,000). There were no
directors (2013: four) who exercised share options during the year. 
A description of the LTIP is given on page 40.
Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of Alternative Networks plc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Number of                 Number of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    shares                       shares
James Murray and family                                                                                                                            15,016,823    14,787,038
Edward Spurrier and family                                                                                                                           3,467,173      2,989,927
Bernard Cragg and family                                                                                                                                  35,000           35,000
Gavin Griggs and family                                                                                                                                       3,495                    –
The market value of the company’s ordinary shares at 30 September 2014 was 473p (2013: 335p) and the range of market prices
during the year was 380p to 600p (2013: 203p to 354p).
Remuneration policy
The Group is committed to the governing objective of maximising shareholder value over time. Each year the remuneration
framework and the packages of the Directors are reviewed to ensure they continue to achieve this objective. If significant changes
to the remuneration policy are proposed, larger shareholders will be consulted and shareholders will be informed if significant
changes are implemented. The committee is currently in the process of undertaking such a review. 
The Group operates in large competitive markets with areas of significant growth potential. The Directors believe that in this
environment, the Group’s employees are a key source of competitive advantage and they recognise that continued and sustained
improvement in the performance of the Group depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain employees of the highest calibre. 
The elements of remuneration and the policy for each element are shown in the table below.
Element of Purpose and link Change of policy
remuneration to Group strategy Policy and approach Opportunity 2014/15 compared to 2013/14?
No Basic salaries for executive
directors were reviewed on
1 October 2014, with
increases in line with the
average increase for all
employees. The next review is
expected to be no earlier than
1 October 2015.
Typically, reviewed no more
than annually. 
Salary increases will normally
be in line with pay review
levels across the whole group
unless reviews referencing
companies of similar size and
complexity suggest increases
are required.
To pay a competitive level of
fixed remuneration, taking into
account experience and
personal contribution to the
Group’s strategy. 
Intended to attract and retain
the talent required to execute
the strategy.
Base Salary
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued
38
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 38 Element of Purpose and link Change of policy
remuneration to strategy Policy and approach Opportunity 2014/15 compared to 2013/14?
Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’ or the ‘Trust’)
An EBT was established during the year ended 30 September 2005, when Jim Sewell, Edward Spurrier and Ben Marnham were
each awarded interests in 638,400, 0.125p ordinary shares in the Company held by the Trust.
These shares are held on trust for them absolutely subject to the trustees retaining a lien on the shares. The lien is in respect of the
trustees’ obligation to settle the loan from the Company used to acquire the shares (which is equivalent to £277,000 each,
£831,000 being the total loan). During the prior year Ben Marnham and Jim Sewell settled their loans due to the Company. The
total loan remaining at 30 September 2014 is £277,000. 
In March 2010, a joint ownership plan (JOP) was set up and the EBT subscribed to 2,000,000 shares in the Company at the
nominal price of 0.125p per share. The trust waived its rights to dividends on these shares. James Murray, Jim Sewell, and
Edward Spurrier each had an interest in these shares which could be used to settle future entitlements to shares under the Group’s
incentive plans. These shares were used to honour some of the VCP ‘B awards’ in January 2013, and as a result dividends are
now payable on these shares. 
During the prior year Ben Marnham swapped his entire interest in 500,000 jointly owned shares for full ownership of 242,710
shares. During the current year James Murray, Edward Spurrier and Jim Sewell swapped their interest in the remaining 1,500,000
jointly owned shares for full ownership of 1,061,541 shares. This leaves nil JOP shares at 30 September 2014.
Annual Bonus To motivate executives to
maximise short term
performance and drive
specific initiatives which
support long-term value
creation.
Performance metrics, targets
and weightings are reviewed
and agreed annually, with due
regard to market conditions
whilst ensuring targets are
sufficiently stretching. The
primary performance measure
is adjusted EBITDA.  
Performance is assessed by
reference to Group financial
performance.
On target bonuses range from
50% to 75% of base salary
with a maximum of 100%.
 No
Benefits Complements basic salary in
providing market competitive
benefits to attract and retain
executives.
Company car allowance,
private medical insurance, life
insurance and income
protection.
N/A No
Pension To attract and retain
executives, by providing an
opportunity to build up a
provision for income on
retirement.
Company contributes to a
defined contribution pension
scheme, or pays a cash
allowance in lieu of pension.
Company contribution of 10%
of basic salary.
No
No Up to 100% of base salary. Three year performance
period.
All awards vest progressively
on achievement of earnings
per share targets over the
three year period. The
committee has the discretion
to adjust the award if
operating cash flow targets
are not achieved.
Awards lapse if the executive
leaves although the
committee retains the right to
allow “good leaver” awards to
vest. 
Aligns executives’ interests
with shareholders to
encourage long term value
creation and to motivate and
retain executives.
Long Term
Incentive Plan
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
39
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 39 LTIP and share option plans
An EMI scheme was established on 18 January 2006 (EMI 2006). As at 30 September 2014, options were outstanding over
10,326 ordinary shares (2013: 20,231) under this scheme.
A second EMI scheme was established on 17 January 2007 (EMI 2007). As at 30 September 2014, options were outstanding over
35,711 ordinary shares (2013: 53,828) under this scheme.
A third EMI scheme was established on 3 July 2008 (EMI 2008). As at 30 September 2014, options were outstanding over 7,380
ordinary shares (2013: 22,140) under this scheme.
Further schemes were used between 2010 and 2014 but these have been fully exercised.
At 30 September 2014 options were outstanding over a total of 53,417 ordinary shares (2013: 96,199) under all three schemes.
Options under the EMI 2006 scheme can be exercised from 31 December 2008 based on the conditions that the option holder is
still an employee of the Group and the Group had achieved certain performance criteria in the period 1 October 2005 to
30 September 2008. The exercise price is £1.025 per share which was the market value at the date of the grant. During the year
ended 30 September 2014, there were 9,905 options exercised (2013: 12,409) and nil options lapsed (2013: 5,008).
Options under the EMI 2007 scheme can be exercised from 31 December 2009 based on the conditions that the option holder is
still an employee of the Group and the Group has achieved certain performance criteria in the period 1 October 2006 to
30 September 2009. The exercise price is £1.505 per share which was the market value at the date of the grant. During the year
ended 30 September 2014, there were 15,972 options exercised (2013: 139,920) and 2,145 options lapsed (2013: 10,293).
Options under the EMI 2008 scheme can be exercised from 3 July 2011 based on the conditions that the option holder is still an
employee of Alternative Networks plc and the Group has achieved certain performance criteria in the period 3 July 2008 to 2 July
2011. The exercise price is £1.355 per share which was the market value at the date of the grant. During the year ended
30 September 2014, there were nil options exercised (2013: 59,040) and 14,760 options lapsed (2013: nil).
A long term incentive plan (“LTIP 2013”) was established on 8 February 2013. Under the plan, nil cost options are typically
awarded annually and they can be exercised three years after the grant date if the option holder is still an employee of the Group
and certain performance criteria have been met. Options granted to executive directors are shown above. 
Outstanding options by scheme:
                                                                                                                                                                                               Exercise                     Exercise          30 September           30 September
Date of Grant                                                                                                                                        Scheme              price (pence)                       period                         2014                         2013
18 January 2006                                                                                EMI             102.5     2008-2016           10,326           20,231
17 January 2007                                                                                EMI             150.5     2009-2017           35,711           53,828
3 July 2008                                                                                         EMI             135.5     2011-2018             7,380           22,140
8 February 2013                                                                       LTIP 2013                   nil     2016-2026         139,366         222,623
18 June 2013                                                                           LTIP 2013                   nil     2016-2026           82,539           82,539
12 June 2014                                                                           LTIP 2014                   nil     2016-2027         458,190                    –
                                                                                                                                                                        733,512         401,361
Service agreements
Each of the Executive Directors has a Service Agreement with the Group. These are rolling agreements which can be terminated
by either party giving at least six months’ notice in writing at any time. If the Group terminates the contract by notice, other than full
notice, the Service Agreements provide for the payment of the fixed amount equal to the salary and other contractual benefits for
the unexpired proportion of the duration of the appointment or entitlement to notice, as the case may be. It is the Committee’s
view that they should not change the term of the existing Directors’ Service Agreements.
Signed by and approved on behalf of the Board
Henrietta Marsh
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 December 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued
40
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 40 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have
prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of
the Group for that year. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•         select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•         make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•         state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
•         prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Gavin Griggs
Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer
9 December 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
41
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the
annual report and the financial statements
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:29  Page 41 Alternative
Networks PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2014
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report                                                    43
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income                  45
Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial Position    46
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity                           47
Company Statement of Changes in Equity                                48
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                                     49
Company Statement of Cash Flows                                          50
Notes to the Financial Statements                                             51
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt2  19/12/2014  18:30  Page 42 Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
43
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
•         Alternative Networks plc’s group financial statements and company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a
true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the group’s profit
and the group’s and the company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
•         the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
•         the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies
Act 2006; and
•         the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
Alternative Networks plc’s financial statements comprise:
•         the consolidated and company statements of financial position as at 30 September 2014;
•         the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
•         the consolidated and company statement of cash flows for the year then ended;
•         the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
•         the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect
of significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•         we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
•         adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
•         the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 41, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Alternative Networks plc
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 43 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
•         whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the company’s circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
•         the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
•         the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
9 December 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Alternative Networks plc continued
44
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Year ended                Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Note                        £’000                        £’000
Revenue                                                                                                                                                              3/4            137,767            114,346
Cost of sales                                                                                                                                                            4             (80,951)            (69,575)
Gross profit                                                                                                                                                                            56,816              44,771
Operating costs                                                                                                                                                       4             (45,276)            (32,390)
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                     5              11,540              12,381
Operating profit – analysed:
Adjusted operating profit                                                                                                                                        28              17,593              15,003
Share based payments                                                                                                                                          26                  (510)                 (625)
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software)                                                                            12               (3,496)              (1,820)
Tender offer and Board changes                                                                                                                            28                       –                  (177)
Acquisition costs and associated items                                                                                                                 28               (2,047)                      –
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                        11,540              12,381
Finance income                                                                                                                                                       7                     25                   115
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                          8               (1,202)                   (11)
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                                            10,363              12,485
Taxation                                                                                                                                                                   9               (2,285)              (2,826)
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year                                                                                                           8,078                9,659
Earnings per ordinary share:
Basic                                                                                                                                                                     11                 16.9p                21.2p
Diluted                                                                                                                                                                   11                16.6p                19.7p
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The Company has elected to take the exemptions under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent
Company’s statement of comprehensive income. The Parent Company’s profit for the financial year was £8,331,000
(2013: £9,044,000).
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
45
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 30 September 2014
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 45                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                Notes                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets                                                                                                 12              76,745              24,900                3,436                3,203
Property, plant and equipment                                                                            13                2,319                2,277                   563                1,861
Investments                                                                                                        14                       –                       –              78,599              26,826
Deferred tax asset                                                                                               15                1,446                   398                   337                   307
Property deposits                                                                                                                       154                       2                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                             80,664              27,577              82,935              32,197
Current assets
Asset held for sale                                                                                              16                1,401                       –                1,401                       –
Inventories                                                                                                          17                   327                   183                       2                       4
Trade and other receivables                                                                                18              26,788              20,829              13,152              12,588
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                 19                3,793              17,930                   720                9,690
                                                                                                                                             32,309              38,942              15,275              22,282
Total assets                                                                                                                       112,973              66,519              98,210              54,479
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Called up share capital                                                                                       20                     62                     62                     62                     62
Share premium                                                                                                                        6,563                6,534                6,563                6,534
Capital redemption reserve                                                                                                             8                       8                       8                       8
Merger reserve                                                                                                                        2,749                2,749                       –                       –
Retained earnings                                                                                                                 27,728              25,783              32,314              30,116
Total equity                                                                                                                          37,110              35,136              38,947              36,720
Current liabilities
Borrowings                                                                                                         22                5,111                     53                5,111                     53
Current tax liabilities                                                                                                                1,146                   304                   679                     41
Trade and other payables                                                                                   21              37,079              29,475              25,503              16,999
                                                                                                                                             43,336              29,832              31,293              17,093
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings                                                                                                         22              27,970                   666              27,970                   666
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                          15                4,557                   885                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                             32,527                1,551              27,970                   666
Total liabilities                                                                                                                     75,863              31,383              59,263              17,759
Total equity and liabilities                                                                                                112,973              66,519              98,210              54,479
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The Company registration number is 02888250.
The financial statements on pages 45 to 74 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 December 2014 and were signed on its
behalf by:
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 46
Financial Statements
Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial Position
As at 30 September 2014
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 46                                                                                                                          Called up                                                         Capital
                                                                                                                               share                        Share                redemption                      Merger                    Retained                          Total
                                                                                                                             capital                    premium                      reserve                      reserve                    earnings                        equity
                                                                                                                                      a)                               b)                               c)                               d)
                                                                                                                              £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Balance at 30 September 2012                                             60                6,196                       6                2,749              28,910              37,921
Shares issued                                                                              4                   338                       –                       –                       –                   342
Shares repurchased and cancelled                                             (2)                      –                       2                       –               (5,000)              (5,000)
Shares repurchased and held in trust                                          –                       –                       –                       –               (1,797)              (1,797)
Reissue of shares held in trust                                                     –                       –                       –                       –                   554                   554
IFRS2 share based payments                                                      –                       –                       –                       –                   216                   216
Corporation tax on share options                                                –                       –                       –                       –                1,982                1,982
Deferred tax on share options                                                     –                       –                       –                       –               (1,339)              (1,339)
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income                     –                       –                       –                       –                9,659                9,659
Dividends paid                                                                             –                       –                       –                       –               (7,402)              (7,402)
Balance at 30 September 2013                                             62                6,534                       8                2,749              25,783              35,136
Shares issued                                                                              –                     29                       –                       –                       –                     29
IFRS2 share based payments                                                      –                       –                       –                       –                   419                   419
Deferred tax on share options                                                     –                       –                       –                       –                     12                     12
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income                     –                       –                       –                       –                8,078                8,078
Dividends paid                                                                             –                       –                       –                       –               (6,564)              (6,564)
Balance at 30 September 2014                                             62                6,563                       8                2,749              27,728              37,110
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
a)        The balance classified as share capital includes the proceeds arising on issue of the Company’s equity share capital,
comprising 0.125p ordinary shares and the cancellation of shares purchased during the year.
b)        Share premium represents the difference between the fair value consideration received and nominal value of shares issued.
c)        Capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase of own share capital.
d)        The merger reserve results from the previous acquisitions of Integrated Communications for Business (UK) Limited, Aurora
Kendrick James Limited, Scalable Communications plc and The Telecom Centre Limited. This represents the difference
between the value of the shares acquired (nominal value plus related share premium) and the nominal value of the shares
issued.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
47
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 47                                                                                                                          Called up                                                         Capital                     Treasury
                                                                                                                               share                        Share                redemption                       shares                    Retained
                                                                                                                             capital                    premium                      reserve                           held                    earnings                          Total
                                                                                                                              £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Balance at 30 September 2012                                             60                6,196                       6                       –              32,615              38,877
Shares issued                                                                              4                   338                       –                       –                       –                   342
Shares repurchased and cancelled                                             (2)                      –                       2                       –               (5,000)              (5,000)
IFRS2 share based payments                                                      –                       –                       –                       –                   216                   216
Corporation tax on share options                                                –                       –                       –                       –                1,982                1,982
Deferred tax on share options                                                     –                       –                       –                       –               (1,339)              (1,339)
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income                     –                       –                       –                       –                9,044                9,044
Dividends paid                                                                             –                       –                       –                       –               (7,402)              (7,402)
Balance at 30 September 2013                                             62                6,534                       8                       –              30,116              36,720
Shares issued                                                                              –                     29                       –                       –                       –                     29
IFRS2 share based payments                                                      –                       –                       –                       –                   419                   419
Deferred tax on share options                                                     –                       –                       –                       –                     12                     12
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income                     –                       –                       –                       –                8,331                8,331
Dividends paid                                                                             –                       –                       –                       –               (6,564)              (6,564)
Balance at 30 September 2014                                             62                6,563                       8                       –              32,314              38,947
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 48
Financial Statements
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Year ended                Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Notes                        £’000                        £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                            24              16,167              14,405
Income tax paid                                                                                                                                                                        (1,376)              (2,916)
Net cash generated from operating activities                                                                                                                            14,791              11,489
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                           13                  (846)                 (482)
Purchase of intangible assets                                                                                                                                12               (1,230)                 (812)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                        –                     10
Interest received                                                                                                                                                                              25                   115
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired)                                                                              29/30             (50,880)                      –
Payments to vendors under sale and purchase agreement                                                                                                               –                  (378)
Net cash used in investing activities                                                                                                                                        (52,931)              (1,547)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid                                                                                                                                                                              (1,070)                   (11)
Dividends paid                                                                                                                                                       10               (6,564)              (7,402)
Proceeds from issue of share capital                                                                                                                                               29                   896
Payments made for share buy-backs                                                                                                                                                –               (6,797)
Transaction costs in relation to loan facility                                                                                                                                   (724)                      –
Proceeds from borrowings                                                                                                                                                       35,000                       –
Repayments of borrowings                                                                                                                                                        (2,668)                   (53)
Net cash used in financing activities                                                                                                                                         24,003             (13,367)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                            (14,137)              (3,425)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year                                                                                                            19              17,930              21,355
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                                                                                       19                3,793              17,930
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
49
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 September 2014
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:33  Page 49                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Year ended                Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Notes                        £’000                        £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                            24              20,789                5,960
Income tax paid                                                                                                                                                                        (1,129)              (1,994)
Net cash generated from operating activities                                                                                                                            19,660                3,966
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                           13                  (378)                 (375)
Purchase of intangible assets                                                                                                                                12               (1,081)                 (950)
Interest received                                                                                                                                                                              25                   115
Purchase of subsidiary undertaking                                                                                                                                         (51,773)                      –
Payments to vendors under sale and purchase agreement                                                                                                               –                  (378)
Net cash used in investing activities                                                                                                                                        (53,207)              (1,588)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid                                                                                                                                                                              (1,070)                   (56)
Dividends paid                                                                                                                                                       10               (6,564)              (7,402)
Proceeds from issue of share capital                                                                                                                                               29                   342
Payments made for share buy-backs                                                                                                                                                –               (5,000)
Transaction costs in relation to loan facility                                                                                                                                   (724)                      –
Proceeds from borrowings                                                                                                                                                       35,000                       –
Repayments of borrowings                                                                                                                                                        (2,094)                   (53)
Net cash used in financing activities                                                                                                                                         24,577             (12,169)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                            (8,970)              (9,791)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year                                                                                                            19                9,690              19,481
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                                                                                       19                   720                9,690
The notes on pages 51 to 74 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 50
Financial Statements
Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 September 2014
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 50 1 General information
Alternative Networks plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The
address of the registered office is Chatfield Court, 56 Chatfield Road, London SW11 3UL. The shares of the Company are listed on
the Alternative Investment Market. 
2 Accounting policies
Statement of compliance and basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRIC interpretations and the
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the
historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are
disclosed below.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling (GBP) as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the Group operates. These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (GBP).
Prior period interest cost of £11,000 has been reclassified in the consolidated statement of cashflows from operating to financing
cashflows, to better reflect the nature of the payments.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year that had a material impact on
the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted and not relevant to the Group’s operations
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after
1 October 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these will materially
impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
IFRS 11, ‘Joint Arrangements’ 
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ 
IAS 27, ‘Separate Financial Statements’ (revised 2011)
IAS 28, ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ (revised 2011)
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation, on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities’
Amendments to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests
in Other Entities’
Amendment to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and IFRS 12 and IAS 27 for investment entities
Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement’
The Group plans to adopt and implement IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ following endorsement by the EU.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the
Group.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control
ceases.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
51
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 51 The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange. Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their
fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the
fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than
the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and can be reliably
measured. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Revenue from calls, which excludes value added tax, is recognised in the income statement at the time the call is made. Calls
made in the year, but not billed by year end are accrued within receivables as accrued income.
Revenue from line rentals is recognised in the month that the charge relates to, commencing with a full month’s charge in the
month of connection. Revenue and related costs from the sale of handsets are recognised on the date of despatch.
Connection commissions received from mobile network operators are recognised when the customer is connected or on
anniversary of connection to the mobile network after providing for expected future clawbacks. Mobile commissions in respect of
average revenue per user are recognised at the end of the relevant performance period.
Revenue and related costs from the sale of accessories are recognised when despatched.
Revenue arising from the provision of internet and other services is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is
provided to the customer.
Hardware revenue and related expenditure is recognised upon despatch for the sale of equipment. Installation revenue and related
expenditure is recognised upon completion of work for systems installations. Maintenance income in respect of systems is
recognised evenly over the period to which it relates.
Connection revenue received from customers is recognised when the customer is connected to the network.
Corporate support (discretionary bonus received from network providers in relation to a new connection) is recognised in line with
the recognition of hardware allowance/account credit in cost of sales i.e. it is recognised on the date of connection and is partially
deferred in proportion to the deferred element of hardware allowance/account credit. 
Revenue from customer management services is recognised in the same month as revenue for the managed services (e.g. usage,
line rental, connections). Where Alternative Networks carries credit risks, gross fees received from customers are recognised in
revenue with fees passed to the network provider being recognised in expenses. Where the network provider carries credit risks,
only net management fees are recognised in revenue.
Revenue from compensation for breach of contract is recognised when it is paid by the customer.
Billing services income and related costs are recognised in the month of service.
Revenue earned from consultancy is recognised upon the percentage of completion of the project.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income is recognised on receipt.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets
and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the year-end date. Any gains or losses arising on exchange are reflected
in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Cost includes the
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
52
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 52 Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the asset as follows:
Building element of long leaseholds 2% per annum
Leasehold improvements over the lease term
Plant and equipment 20% – 33% per annum
Motor vehicles 25% per annum
The useful economic lives and residual values attributable to each class of asset are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each
balance sheet date.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment at each balance sheet date and when events or
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the carrying
values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable
amount.
An item of property, plant and equipment is removed upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the year the item is
derecognised.
Land is not depreciated and is held at historical cost.
Leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets
Goodwill is accounted for by recognising identifiable assets (including previously unrecognised intangible assets) and liabilities
(including contingent liabilities and excluding future restructuring) of the acquired business at fair value. Goodwill is initially
measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of payments made, assets transferred and future payments, over the Group’s
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. The results of the acquired
entities are included in the Group’s results from the date when control of the Company passes to the Group. Goodwill is valued at
cost less accumulated impairment.
is reviewed for impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit may be impaired. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less
than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. 
Purchased customer contracts are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful
economic life, from the date of acquisition, as considered reasonable by the Directors.
Software and software licences includes computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware. These assets are
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value. Amortisation is calculated on straight-line basis over the
estimated useful life of the asset.
Customer contracts, relationships, technology, order backlog and trade names is the fair value determined by the net
present value of the future cash flow benefits anticipated to arise from the intangible assets less accumulated amortisation and
impairment losses.
Amortisation of intangibles is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of
intangible assets. Goodwill is tested systematically for impairment at each annual balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are
amortised from the date that they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Customer contracts and relationships acquired on acquisitions 7-10 years
Technology 4 years
Trade name 3 years
Purchased customer contracts 3-5 years
Computer software 3-5 years
Order backlog (included within customer contracts and relationships) 1 year
Investments
All investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including acquisition charges
associated with the investment. Investments are tested for impairment at each reporting date or if events indicate that the carrying
value has been diminished.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
53
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 53
Goodwill Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Net realisable value is reviewed regularly to ensure accurate carrying values. Cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and
includes transportation and handling costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make
the sale.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables which comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash
equivalents’ in the balance sheet. Financial assets are held at amortised cost and management determines the classification of its
financial assets at initial recognition. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that
financial assets are impaired. For loans and receivables categories, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been
incurred). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income
statement.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 14-60 day terms, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised
cost. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators
that the trade receivable is impaired. The provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the original invoice
amount less bad debts written-off. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of the provision and the amount of
the loss is recognised in the income statement. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance
account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank, in hand and short term deposits with a maturity of three
months or less. 
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Trade payables
Trade payables are stated at their nominal value, recognised initially at fair value and subsequently valued at amortised cost.
Share capital
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at their nominal value. Proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, is split
between share capital and share premium.
Segmental reporting
Operating segments require identification on the basis of internal reporting about components of the Group that are regularly
reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. For further
information see note 3 of the financial statements.
Current taxation
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred taxation
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not
accounted for, if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
54
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 54 Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation
authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme and contributes to an independent stakeholder pension. Contributions are
recognised as an expense in the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Employee benefits
In accordance with IAS 19, the Group provides for accrued holiday benefit. The cost is measured as the additional amount that the
Group expects to pay as a result of the unused holiday entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
The Group contributes to employees defined contribution pension plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further
contributions once contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are
due.
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration
the profit attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain adjustments.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is
demonstrably committed to a termination when the entity has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of current
employees without possibility of withdrawal.
Employee Benefit Trust
The assets and liabilities of the Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) have been included in the Group financial statements. Any assets
held by the EBT cease to be recognised on the Group balance sheet when the assets vest unconditionally in identified
beneficiaries. The costs of purchasing own shares held by the EBT are shown as a deduction against equity.
Share-based payment transactions
The Group’s management awards certain employees bonuses in the form of equity-settled, share- based compensation plans on a
discretionary basis. These options are subject to between two and three-year vesting conditions. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the
impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and revenue growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions
are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises
its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if
any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. In the event of amendments to option schemes the fair
value of the scheme is assessed immediately before and after the amendment and any change in the fair value is recognised in the
income statement over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share
premium when the options are exercised.
The Group has applied IFRS2 ‘Share based payments’ and has adopted the Black-Scholes model for the purposes of computing
‘fair value’ for the EMI schemes. 
Deferred tax is also provided based upon the expected future tax deductions relating to share based payment transactions and is
recognised over the vesting period of the scheme concerned.
Customer acquisition costs
The Group defines these as subsidised hardware, free hardware and credits which can be used against equipment or rental/usage
billing which the client is entitled to over the life of their fixed term contract. These costs are booked in full to the income statement
as soon as the customer is entitled to start drawing down on these subsidies, normally when the customers’ services commence
or a fixed period after commencement, unless otherwise specified in the contract.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
55
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 55 Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life such as goodwill are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash
flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal
of the impairment at each reporting date.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that
some or all of the facility will be drawn down. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will
be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it
relates. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable
that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date
and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items of income or expense that are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to
do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the group due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the present and future key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are
discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill: The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an
estimation of the ‘value in use’ of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating a value in use amount
requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit (CGU) and also to
choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Sensitivity analysis is undertaken on the
weighted average cost of capital and the future growth assumptions for the individual CGU’s.
Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets are recognised for timing differences to the extent that it is more likely than not that
taxable profit will be available against which the timing differences can be utilised. Management judgement is required to determine
the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together
with future tax planning strategies. Refer to note 15 where the impact of the change in tax rates is considered.
Share based payment: The estimation of the fair value of share options and other equity instruments at the date of their grant
requires management to make estimates concerning the number of employees likely to exercise together with the expected
volatility of, and dividends payable on the underlying shares and the time at which employees are likely to exercise vested options.
Receivables: Receivables are recognised to the extent that they are judged recoverable. Management reviews are performed to
estimate the level of provision required for irrecoverable debt. Provisions are made specifically against invoices where recoverability
is uncertain.
Value of intangibles: The valuation of intangibles on acquisition requires management estimates and judgements in relation to the
valuation of separately identifiable assets and contingent liabilities.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
56
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 56 3 Segmental information
IFRS 8, “Operating Segments” requires identification of the Group’s segments on the basis of the internal reporting about
components of the Group that is regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources and to assess
performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Board. The Board review the Group’s internal reporting in order to
assess performance and allocate resources. The Board assesses the performance of the operating segments based on revenue,
gross profit, net profit and EBITDA. The reportable segments of the Group are Telephony Services and Advanced Solutions. 
Telephony Services consists of two revenue streams, fixed voice and mobile. Advanced Solutions includes the installation and
maintenance of telephone systems, the integration of computer networks, the provision of managed hosting solutions and the
provision of billing facilities.
For the year ended 30 September 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Telephony                  Advanced
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Services                   Solutions                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Total segment revenue                                                                                                                                    75,114              63,215            138,329
Inter segment revenue                                                                                                                                             –                  (562)                 (562)
Revenue from external customers                                                                                                             75,114              62,653            137,767
Gross Profit                                                                                                                                                  32,603              24,213              56,816
Operating profit                                                                                                                                            11,384                   156              11,540
Finance income                                                                                                                                                     13                     12                     25
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                   (1,190)                   (12)              (1,202)
Taxation                                                                                                                                                           (1,790)                 (495)              (2,285)
Profit/(Loss) after tax for the year                                                                                                                8,417                  (339)               8,078
EBITDA                                                                                                                                                          12,669                4,365              17,034
Other information
Additions to non current assets (other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets)                               1,282                   794                2,076
Depreciation and amortisation                                                                                                                          1,285                4,209                5,494
For the year ended 30 September 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Telephony                  Advanced
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Services                   Solutions                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Total segment revenue                                                                                                                                    76,421              38,548            114,969
Inter segment revenue                                                                                                                                             –                  (623)                 (623)
Revenue from external customers                                                                                                             76,421              37,925            114,346
Gross Profit                                                                                                                                                  30,485              14,286              44,771
Operating profit                                                                                                                                            10,870                1,511              12,381
Finance income                                                                                                                                                     70                     45                   115
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                        (11)                      –                    (11)
Taxation                                                                                                                                                           (2,461)                 (365)              (2,826)
Profit after tax for the year                                                                                                                           8,468                1,191                9,659
EBITDA                                                                                                                                                          12,353                2,784              15,137
Other information
Additions to non current assets (other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets)                               1,146                   148                1,294
Depreciation and amortisation                                                                                                                          1,483                1,273                2,756
Assets and liabilities are not disclosed by segment as they are not reported to the chief operating decision maker.
Transactions with the largest customer of the Company are less than 10% of Group revenue.
All sales have taken place within the United Kingdom and those between segments are all carried out on arm’s length basis.
All non-current assets are located within the United Kingdom.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
57
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 57 4 Analysis of operating costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                 137,767            114,346
Cost of sales                                                                                                                                                                           (80,951)            (69,575)
Gross profit                                                                                                                                                                              56,816              44,771
Selling and distribution costs                                                                                                                                                   (15,877)            (12,354)
Administrative expenses                                                                                                                                                          (29,399)            (20,036)
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                        11,540              12,381
5 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Depreciation of property plant and equipment                                                                                                                            1,208                   565
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                4,286                2,191
Loss/(Profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                2                    (10)
Operating lease charges – land and buildings                                                                                                                               918                   742
Operating lease charges – motor vehicles                                                                                                                                       54                     60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
– fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements                      103                     90
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and associates for other services:
– fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation                                82                     44
Total audit fees                                                                                                                                                                              185                   134
– services relating to taxation                                                                                                                                                          31                       –
– corporate finance services                                                                                                                                                          116                       –
– all other services                                                                                                                                                                           38                     41
Total non-audit fees                                                                                                                                                                       185                     41
During the year the Company’s auditors provided services in respect of financial due diligence advice on the acquisition of Control
Circle Limited and Intercept IT Limited to the value of £116,000.
6 Key management costs and employee information
Key management is defined as members of the Group’s Operational Board as well as Executive Board members.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Key management compensation
Short term employee benefits                                                                                                                                                     4,052                5,039
Post employment benefits                                                                                                                                                             104                   100
Share based payments                                                                                                                                                                 419                   216
                                                                                                                                                                                                  4,575                5,355
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Directors’ aggregate emoluments
Short term employee benefits                                                                                                                                                     1,712                1,649
Other benefits                                                                                                                                                                                  71                     61
Post employment benefits                                                                                                                                                               74                     65
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,857                1,775
The amounts set out above include remuneration in respect of the highest paid director of £636,113 (2013: £679,000). The highest
paid director also received £38,500 (2013: £32,000) of money purchase pension scheme contributions and exercised nil (2013:
1,099,000) share options during the year.
During the year five directors (2013: five) accrued retirement benefits under money purchase pension schemes.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
58
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 58 The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was £nil (2013: £9,906,000). No directors
(2013: four) exercised share options during the year.
The average monthly number of persons (including executive Directors) employed by the Group and Company during the year
was:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September          30 September         30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                              Number                     Number                    Number                     Number
By activity
Selling and distribution                                                                                                               383                   263                     95                     91
Administration                                                                                                                            233                   207                   181                   178
                                                                                                                                                  616                   470                   276                   269
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September          30 September         30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Staff costs
Wages and salaries                                                                                                               31,296              23,823              11,482              11,385
Social security costs                                                                                                                3,772                3,162                1,581                1,921
Employee share scheme charges                                                                                               419                   216                   419                   216
Other pension costs – defined contribution plans                                                                       762                   455                   356                   250
                                                                                                                                             36,249              27,656              13,838              13,772
Staff costs exclude contingent consideration paid to existing employees relating to the acquisition of Scalable.
7 Finance income
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Interest receivable on bank deposits                                                                                                                                               25                   115
8 Finance costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Interest cost on bank loans                                                                                                                                                        1,202                     11
9 Taxation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Current tax:
Tax on profit in the year                                                                                                                                                              2,261                3,105
Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                                                             (43)                   (32)
Total current tax                                                                                                                                                                      2,218                3,073
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences                                                                                                                                   67                  (247)
Total deferred tax credit                                                                                                                                                              67                  (247)
Total tax charge                                                                                                                                                                       2,285                2,826
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
59
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 59 The current tax assessed for the year of 22.1% (2013: 22.6%) is higher (2013: lower) than the average rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 22% (2013: 23.5%) applied to the profits before tax for the year. The differences are explained below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                                            10,363              12,485
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by average rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22% (2013: 23.5%)                                 2,280                2,934
Effects of:
Amounts not deductible                                                                                                                                                             1,441                       6
Deduction in relation to exercise of share options                                                                                                                         (393)                 (133)
Share option charge not deductible                                                                                                                                                 92                     51
Losses utilised arising on acquisitions                                                                                                                                       (1,092)                      –
Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                                                             (43)                   (32)
Total tax charge                                                                                                                                                                       2,285                2,826
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014. Accordingly, the Group’s
profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 22%. Further changes to the UK Corporation tax system were
announced in the March 2013 Budget Statement. The 2013 Finance Act includes legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation
tax from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. The reduction in tax rate to 20% was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and,
therefore, has been included in these financial statements to measure the deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
10 Dividends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
2013 Final Paid – 8.60p (2012: 7.50p) per 0.125p ordinary share                                                                                              4,194                3,328
2014 First Interim Paid – 4.90p (2013: 4.40p) per 0.125p ordinary share                                                                                   2,370                2,134
2014 Special Second Interim Paid – 0.00p (2013: 4.00p) per 0.125p ordinary share                                                                        –                1,940
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6,564                7,402
The 2013 proposed final dividend of 8.60 pence per 0.125p ordinary share (2012: 7.50 pence) was paid on 30 January 2014. The
amount of dividend paid was £4,194,000 (2013: £3,328,000). 
The Company paid a 2014 interim dividend of 4.90 pence per 0.125p ordinary share (2013: 4.40 pence), with a total payment
value of £2,370,000 (2013: £2,134,000). This was paid on 18 July 2014 to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014.
The Company did not pay a special second interim dividend in 2014 (2013: 4.00 pence per 0.125p ordinary share, with a total
payment value of £1,940,000).
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2014 of 9.60 pence
per 0.125p ordinary share (2013: 8.60 pence) which will require an estimated £4,600,000 of shareholders’ funds (2013:
£4,271,000). Assuming it is approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 28 January 2014, it will be paid on
30 January 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members at 30 December 2014 with an “ex-dividend” date of
29 December 2014.
11 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and fully diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit attributable to owners of the Company
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all
dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Group has one category of potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to
employees where the exercise price is less than the average price of the Company’s ordinary share during the year.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
60
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 60 The profit and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Weighted average
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Profit attributable to              of £0.00125                   Per share
Basic and fully diluted earnings per share                                                                                                                   owners of the company          ordinary shares                      amount
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £’000                     Number                        Pence
2014 Earnings per share – basic                                                                                                                      8,078       47,709,701                  16.9
Potentially dilutive shares                                                                                                                                         –            888,307                   (0.3)
2014 Earnings per share – diluted                                                                                                                    8,078       48,598,008                  16.6
2013 Earnings per share –basic                                                                                                                        9,659       45,495,405                  21.2
Potentially dilutive shares                                                                                                                                         –         3,497,763                   (1.5)
2013 Earnings per share – diluted                                                                                                                    9,659       48,993,168                  19.7
The adjusted EPS is based on the adjusted profit after tax as set out in note 28, and the weighted average number of shares as
described above.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Weighted average                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Adjusted profit              of £0.00125                   Per share
Basic and fully diluted earnings per share                                                                                                                                    after taxation          ordinary shares                      amount
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £’000                     Number                        Pence
2014 Earnings per share – basic                                                                                                                    12,852       47,709,701                  26.9
Potentially dilutive shares                                                                                                                                         –            888,307                   (0.5)
2014 Earnings per share – diluted                                                                                                                  12,852       48,598,008                  26.4
2013 Earnings per share – basic                                                                                                                    11,228       45,495,405                  24.7
Potentially dilutive shares                                                                                                                                         –         3,497,763                   (1.8)
2013 Earnings per share – diluted                                                                                                                  11,228       48,993,168                  22.9
Share option costs included within adjusted profit attributable to owners of the company are reducing the earnings per share in
2014 by 1.1p (2013: 1.3p).
The calculation of the weighted average number of shares in issue excludes 638,400 shares (2013: 2,201,746) held by the
Alternative Networks Employee Benefit Trust (EBT). These shares are then added to the total of extant options when calculating the
fully diluted weighted average number of shares. 
There were 49,688,544 shares in issue at 30 September 2014 (2013: 49,662,667). The weighted average number of shares during
the year was 47,709,701 (2013: 45,495,405).
12 Intangible assets
                                                                                     Purchased                                                    Customer
                                                                                       customer                  Computer            contracts and
Group                                                                          contracts                    software              relationships             Trade names                Technology                    Goodwill                          Total
                                                                                            £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2012                                      1,662                2,551              11,231                   757                1,007              19,560              36,768
Additions                                                            –                   812                       –                       –                       –                       –                   812
At 30 September 2013                               1,662                3,363              11,231                   757                1,007              19,560              37,580
Additions                                                            –                1,230                       –                       –                       –                       –                1,230
Acquisitions                                                        –                   461              21,203                       –                   890              32,347              54,901
At 30 September 2014                             1,662                5,054              32,434                   757                1,897              51,907              93,711
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 October 2012                                      1,662                1,837                5,652                   604                   734                       –              10,489
Charge for year                                                  –                   371                1,437                   132                   251                       –                2,191
At 30 September 2013                               1,662                2,208                7,089                   736                   985                       –              12,680
Charge for year                                                  –                   790                3,286                     21                   189                       –                4,286
At 30 September 2014                             1,662                2,998              10,375                   757                1,174                       –              16,966
Net book amount
At 30 September 2014                                    –                2,056              22,059                       –                   723              51,907              76,745
At 30 September 2013                                      –                1,155                4,142                     21                     22              19,560              24,900
At 30 September 2012                                      –                   714                5,579                   153                   273              19,560              26,279
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
61
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 61 Amortisation has been charged through the income statement within operating costs. 
                                                                                                                                                                                           Purchased 
                                                                                                                                                                                             customer                  Computer
Company                                                                                                                                                                         contracts                    software                    Goodwill                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2012                                                                                                                     759                2,944                1,763                5,466
Additions                                                                                                                                        –                   950                       –                   950
At 30 September 2013                                                                                                               759                3,894                1,763                6,416
Additions                                                                                                                                        –                1,081                       –                1,081
At 30 September 2014                                                                                                             759                4,975                1,763                7,497
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 October 2012                                                                                                                     759                1,919                       –                2,678
Charge for year                                                                                                                               –                   535                       –                   535
At 30 September 2013                                                                                                               759                2,454                       –                3,213
Charge for year                                                                                                                               –                   848                       –                   848
At 30 September 2014                                                                                                             759                3,302                       –                4,061
Net book amount
At 30 September 2014                                                                                                                 –                1,673                1,763                3,436
At 30 September 2013                                                                                                                   –                1,440                1,763                3,203
At 30 September 2012                                                                                                                   –                1,025                1,763                2,788
The carrying amounts of goodwill by reportable segment are as follows;
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Telephony Services                                                                                                                  5,685                5,685                1,436                1,436
Advanced Solutions                                                                                                              46,222              13,875                   327                   327
                                                                                                                                             51,907              19,560                1,763                1,763
Each group business, comprising individual acquired companies, is deemed to be a Cash Generating Unit (CGU), being the lowest
level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. Goodwill is attributed to each CGU and reviewed for the purposes of the
annual impairment review as this is the level that management monitors goodwill.
During the year the goodwill in respect of each cash generating unit was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36. All
CGUs were assessed to have a value in use in excess of their respective carrying values, and hence no impairments to goodwill
were considered necessary.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were:
The forecasts were based on pre-tax cash flows derived from approved budgets for the 2015-2018 financial years. Management
believes the forecasts are reasonably achievable based on market performance and its expectations of market developments. The
directors consider that the key assumptions in the forecasts are earnings before interest and tax and revenue. Subsequent cash
flows were extrapolated using a 1.0% (2013: 1.0%) growth rate reflecting an approximate forecasted long term growth rate for the
UK economy, the Group’s principal market.
The pre-tax discount rate used to assess the carrying value of goodwill is 10.0% (2013: 11.6%) which approximates the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital. This discount rate has been calculated on a consistent basis .
The review performed at the year-end did not result in the impairment of goodwill for any cash generating unit as the estimated
recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount in all cases. The Group undertakes sensitivity analysis based on reasonably
possible changes in assumptions by increasing the weighted average cost of capital and reducing future growth expectations in
the model. The results of this analysis show no indication of impairment.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
62
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 62 13 Property, plant and equipment
                                                                                                                                                           Land and                  Leasehold                   Plant and
Group                                                                                                                                               buildings            improvements                 equipment           Motor vehicles                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Costs
At 1 October 2012                                                                                         1,646                   620                3,635                     35                5,936
Additions                                                                                                               –                     42                   440                       –                   482
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (22)                 (198)                   (27)                 (247)
At 30 September 2013                                                                                  1,646                   640                3,877                       8                6,171
Additions                                                                                                               –                     60                   784                       –                   844
Acquisitions                                                                                                           –                       –                1,809                       –                1,809
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (19)                 (460)                      –                  (479)
Transfer to asset held for sale                                                                       (1,646)                      –                       –                       –               (1,646)
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                   681                6,010                       8                6,699
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2012                                                                                            209                   568                2,764                     35                3,576
Charge for year                                                                                                   18                     27                   520                       –                   565
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (22)                 (198)                   (27)                 (247)
At 30 September 2013                                                                                     227                   573                3,086                       8                3,894
Charge for year                                                                                                   18                     28                1,162                       –                1,210
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (19)                 (460)                      –                  (479)
Transfer to asset held for sale                                                                          (245)                      –                       –                       –                  (245)
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                   582                3,788                       8                4,380
Net book amount
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                     99                2,222                       –                2,319
At 30 September 2013                                                                                  1,419                     67                   791                       –                2,277
At 1 October 2012                                                                                         1,437                     52                   871                       –                2,360
Depreciation has been charged through the income statement within operating costs. 
                                                                                                                                                           Land and                  Leasehold                   Plant and
Company                                                                                                                                        buildings            improvements                 equipment           Motor vehicles                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Costs
At 1 October 2012                                                                                         1,646                   543                2,585                       8                4,782
Additions                                                                                                               –                     42                   333                       –                   375
Disposals                                                                                                              –                      (9)                   (67)                      –                    (76)
At 30 September 2013                                                                                  1,646                   576                2,851                       8                5,081
Additions                                                                                                               –                       –                   378                       –                   378
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (19)                 (311)                      –                  (330)
Transfer to asset held for sale                                                                       (1,646)                      –                       –                       –               (1,646)
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                   557                2,918                       8                3,483
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2012                                                                                            209                   532                2,224                       8                2,973
Charge for year                                                                                                   18                     12                   293                       –                   323
Disposals                                                                                                              –                      (9)                   (67)                      –                    (76)
At 30 September 2013                                                                                     227                   535                2,450                       8                3,220
Charge for year                                                                                                   18                     10                   244                       –                   272
Disposals                                                                                                              –                    (19)                 (308)                      –                  (327)
Transfer to asset held for sale                                                                          (245)                      –                       –                       –                  (245)
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                   526                2,386                       8                2,920
Net book amount
At 30 September 2014                                                                                       –                     31                   532                       –                   563
At 30 September 2013                                                                                  1,419                     41                   401                       –                1,861
At 1 October 2012                                                                                         1,437                     11                   361                       –                1,809
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
63
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:34  Page 63 14 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £’000
1 October 2012 and 2013                                                                                                                                                                                 26,826
Acquisition of Intercept IT Limited                                                                                                                                                                      12,458
Acquisition of Control Circle Limited                                                                                                                                                                   39,315
30 September 2014                                                                                                                                                                                         78,599
The following are principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group:
Subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation Class of holdings Principal activities                               Holding Company %
Echo Communications Limited England & Wales Ordinary Dormant                                                   100%
Aurora Kendrick James Limited England & Wales Ordinary Billing Services                                         100%
Scalable Communications plc England & Wales Ordinary Network Integrator                                   100%
Intercept IT Limited England & Wales Ordinary IT services provider                                  100%
Control Circle Limited England & Wales Ordinary IT services provider                                  100%
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets and future expected
cash flows.
15 Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements is set out below. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses
carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. There were no
un-recognised amounts of deferred tax at 30 September 2014 (2013: none).
The movement in the deferred tax during the year was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                         Accelerated
                                                                                                                                                                                                       tax              Share based                            Tax
Asset                                                                                                                                                                             depreciation                  payments                        losses                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Group
1 October 2012                                                                                                                          319                1,674                       –                1,993
Credited/(charged) to income statement                                                                                      16                  (272)                      –                  (256)
Charged to equity                                                                                                                           –               (1,339)                      –               (1,339)
30 September 2013                                                                                                                   335                     63                       –                   398
Acquisitions                                                                                                                                114                       –                1,736                1,850
Credited/(charged) to income statement                                                                                    195                     83               (1,092)                 (814)
Credited to equity                                                                                                                           –                     12                       –                     12
30 September 2014                                                                                                                 644                   158                   644                1,446
Company
1 October 2012                                                                                                                          227                1,674                       –                1,901
Credited/(charged) to income statement                                                                                      17                  (272)                      –                  (255)
Charged to equity                                                                                                                           –               (1,339)                      –               (1,339)
30 September 2013                                                                                                                   244                     63                       –                   307
Credited/(charged) to income statement                                                                                      (65)                    83                       –                     18
Credited to equity                                                                                                                           –                     12                       –                     12
30 September 2014                                                                                                                 179                   158                       –                   337
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Intangible assets
Liability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £’000
Group
1 October 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,388)
Credited to income statement                                                                                                                                                                                 503
30 September 2013                                                                                                                                                                                               (885)
Acquisition of subsidiary                                                                                                                                                                                      (4,419)
Credited to income statement                                                                                                                                                                                 747
30 September 2014                                                                                                                                                                                          (4,557)
There is no deferred tax liability (2013: none) recognised in the Company.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
64
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 64 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are analysed as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months                                                444                   187                   212                   141
Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months                                                            1,002                   211                   125                   166
Asset at 30 September                                                                                                        1,446                   398                   337                   307
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months                                         (3,818)                 (605)                      –                       –
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months                                                           (739)                 (280)                      –                       –
Liability at 30 September                                                                                                    (4,557)                 (885)                      –                       –
Net deferred tax (liability)/asset                                                                                               (3,111)                 (487)                  337                   307
16 Asset held for sale
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Property                                                                                                                                  1,401                       –                1,401                       –
The Company entered into a binding agreement on 6 August 2014 to sell its freehold interest at Chatfield Court. The sale is subject
to receiving the consent of certain parties but the Board is confident that exchange of contracts will occur in 2015. The book value
of the property has been reclassified and continues to be recorded at the lower of carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. 
17 Inventories 
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Finished goods                                                                                                                           327                   183                       2                       4
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales during the year was £13,458,000 (2013:
£11,057,000).
18 Trade and other receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Trade receivables                                                                                                                   12,095                7,711                3,759                3,652
Amounts owed by Group undertakings                                                                                          –                       –                2,677                1,262
Prepayments                                                                                                                           6,723                4,870                1,174                1,192
Accrued income                                                                                                                      7,870                8,149                5,445                6,402
Other receivables                                                                                                                       100                     99                     97                     80
                                                                                                                                             26,788              20,829              13,152              12,588
The amounts noted above represent the fair value of trade and other receivables.
At 30 September 2014, trade receivables of £739,000 (2013: £505,000) were impaired and fully provided for. The Group is
satisfied that the majority of its clients are of sound creditworthiness. This view is further supported by the willingness of our credit
insurers to provide cover in the majority of cases. The ageing of the trade receivables which are past due and not impaired is as
follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
31-60 days                                                                                                                              2,693                1,639                   442                   461
61-90 days                                                                                                                                 267                   428                     79                     82
Over 90 days                                                                                                                              296                   294                     14                   144
                                                                                                                                               3,256                2,361                   535                   687
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
65
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 65 Movement of the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Group                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
At 1 October 2012                                                                                                                                                                        662                   500
Receivable written off during the year as uncollectible                                                                                                                  (297)                 (223)
Unused amounts reversed                                                                                                                                                            (249)                 (185)
Provision for receivables impairment                                                                                                                                              389                   142
At 30 September 2013                                                                                                                                                                  505                   234
Provision acquired                                                                                                                                                                         818                       –
Receivable written off during the year as uncollectible                                                                                                                  (842)                   (67)
Unused amounts reversed                                                                                                                                                            (280)                 (130)
Provision for receivables impairment                                                                                                                                              538                   215
At 30 September 2014                                                                                                                                                                739                   252
The creation and release of a provision for impaired receivables has been included in operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Management regularly reviews the outstanding receivables and do not consider that any further impairment is required.
The other asset classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
19 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Cash                                                                                                                                       3,793              17,930                   720                9,690
20 Called up share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group and                 Group and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Authorised
80,000,000 (2013: 80,000,000) ordinary shares of 0.125p (2013: 0.125p) each                                                                           100                   100
Issued fully paid up
49,688,544 (2013: 49,662,667) ordinary shares of 0.125p (2013: 0.125p) each                                                                             62                     62
Movement in shares in issue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shares                       Shares
Ordinary shares of 0.125p each
At 1 October                                                                                                                                                                     49,662,667       48,321,557
Issued under share option schemes                                                                                                                                         25,877         3,317,151
Share repurchased and cancelled (tender offer)                                                                                                                                 –        (1,992,012)
Purchased by employees under bonus schemes                                                                                                                               –              15,971
At 30 September                                                                                                                                                               49,688,544       49,662,667
During the year 25,877 shares were issued under share option schemes as follows;
9,905 issued at 102.5p resulting in a share premium of £10,140
15,972 issued at 150.5p resulting in a share premium of £24,018
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
66
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 66 21 Trade and other payables
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Trade payables                                                                                                                      13,764                8,895                6,988                6,233
Amounts owed to group undertakings                                                                                            –                       –                9,262                   858
Other taxation and social security costs                                                                                  2,877                2,302                1,626                1,476
Other payables                                                                                                                           882                1,182                   656                   754
Accruals and deferred income                                                                                               19,556              17,096                6,971                7,678
                                                                                                                                             37,079              29,475              25,503              16,999
Secured payables
Included in trade payables are the following secured balances:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Telefonica UK Limited                                                                                                              2,518                2,522                2,518                2,522
Vodafone Limited                                                                                                                       985                   949                   985                   949
On 27 May 2002, the Group granted legal charges to each of the above companies in respect of the balances owing to them
under the terms of the service provider agreements both dated 27 May 2002.
The legal charges are secured on the subscriber bases of the Group on each network, and the book debts arising thereon,
together with any amount standing to the credit of the companies in any designated account.
In addition, on 27 May 2009 the Group gave a guarantee to Barclays Bank plc in favour of Telefonica UK Limited, in respect of
£100,000. The guarantee is secured on the bank’s existing first charge over the leasehold property at Chatfield Court, 56 Chatfield
Road, London SW11 3UL, together with a fixed and floating charge on the assets of the Company, registered on 19 December
2002.
22 Borrowings
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Current
Bank loans – secured                                                                                                                 666                     53                   666                     53
Bank loans – unsecured                                                                                                          4,445                       –                4,445                       –
Current borrowings                                                                                                                  5,111                     53                5,111                     53
Non-current
Bank loans – secured                                                                                                                     –                   666                       –                   666
Bank loans – unsecured                                                                                                        27,970                       –              27,970                       –
Non-current borrowings                                                                                                        27,970                   666              27,970                   666
Further details of borrowings are disclosed in note 23. The secured bank loan relates to the Group’s mortgage over the property at
Chatfield Road and has been reclassified to current liabilities in line with the held for sale nature of that property (note 16). 
23 Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, bank loans, bank facilities and various items such as trade and other receivables
and trade and other payables that arise directly from its operations. All financial instruments are denominated in Pound Sterling. 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is approximately equal to their book values.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Loans and                 Loans and
Group at 30 September                                                                                                                                                                                                          receivables                receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Financial assets per balance sheet
Trade and other receivables (less prepayments)                                                                                                                       20,065              15,959
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                        3,793              17,930
                                                                                                                                                                                                23,858              33,889
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
67
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Loans and                 Loans and
Company at 30 September                                                                                                                                                                                                   receivables                receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Financial assets per balance sheet
Trade and other receivables (less prepayments)                                                                                                                       11,978              11,396
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                           720                9,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                12,698              21,086
The Group’s financial assets include cash at bank and deposits at the year end. Interest is received on cash deposits at variable
rates primarily based on the relevant bank rate. All cash at bank and cash deposits are held in Sterling. Management monitors the
creditworthiness of financial institutions where cash and cash equivalents are held, on a regular basis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Other financial           Other financial
Group at 30 September                                                                                                                                                                                                               liabilities                     liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Financial liabilities per balance sheet
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                                                                                  25,367              19,254
Secured bank loans                                                                                                                                                                      666                   719
Unsecured bank loans                                                                                                                                                              32,415                       –
                                                                                                                                                                                                58,448              19,973
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Other financial           Other financial
Company at 30 September                                                                                                                                                                                                        liabilities                     liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Financial liabilities per balance sheet
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                                                                                  23,455              14,841
Secured bank loans                                                                                                                                                                      666                   719
Unsecured bank loans                                                                                                                                                              32,415                       –
                                                                                                                                                                                                56,536              15,560
On 23 January 2014 the Group entered into a £43 million senior term and revolving facility to support the Group’s acquisition
strategy. This is split between a £23m term loan facility and a £20m revolving credit facility.
The term loan is repayable in half-yearly instalments over a 3 year period commencing July 2014. The revolving facility is due for
renewal on 23 January 2018. Interest is calculated on LIBOR plus a margin dependent on the value of the Leverage covenant. 
Secured bank loans are secured by fixed charges over the long leasehold property at Chatfield Court (book value: £1,401,000).
During the year ended 30 September 2014 £53,000 (2013: £53,000) of capital repayments were made on this loan.
The Group’s borrowings are subject to financial covenants tested quarterly. The principal financial covenants under the facility are:
maximum net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times, progressively dropping to 2.0 times in the final year of the facility; minimum interest
cover of 5 times; and minimum cash flow to debt service of 1.0 times. At 30 September 2014 all of these covenants were
achieved comfortably.
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks
to limit adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using a mix of financial instruments.
a)        Foreign exchange risk – The Group is exposed to minimal foreign exchange risk as the Group operates almost wholly within
the United Kingdom. In addition, substantially all of the Group assets and liabilities are held in Pound Sterling so sensitivity
analysis is deemed unnecessary regarding foreign exchange risk.
b)        Interest rate risk – The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets but is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows
funds at floating interest rates. As at 30 September 2014 the only floating rate to which the Group was exposed was
LIBOR. The Group did not enter into any hedging transactions during the year (2013: none). 
c)        Credit risk – Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial
loss to the Group. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit worthy counterparties and this policy has
been implemented by requiring staff to carry out appropriate credit checks on customers before sales commence. The
amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed at least annually. The Group
also insures all debts greater than £2,500 where accepted, with a leading credit insurance company.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries across the United Kingdom.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The Group does not have any
significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any Group of counterparties having similar characteristics. The
Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are connected entities.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
68
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 68 Credit risk may also arise from deposits with banks. It is the Group’s policy that deposits are only made with banks that
have high credit scores and deposits are split between multiple banks.
d)        Liquidity risk – The group has developed an appropriate liquidity risk framework for the management of the Group’s short,
medium, and long-term funding and liquidity risk management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by
maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities through cash flow forecasting, acquisition
planning and monitoring working capital and capital expenditure requirements on an ongoing basis. 
For the foreseeable future, the Group is expected to be in a net borrowings position. The table below analyses the Group’s
financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the balance remaining at the period to the contractual maturity
date. These amounts disclosed in the table are the contracted undiscounted cash flows.
Group
Year ended 30 September 2014                                                                                                 Within 1 year                  1-2 years                  2-5 years  More than 5 years
                                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Borrowings                                                                                                                 5,111                7,000              20,970                       –
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                   25,367                       –                       –                       –
Year ended 30 September 2013                                                                                                   Within 1 year                   1-2 years                   2-5 years     More than 5 years
                                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Borrowings                                                                                                                      53                     54                   166                   446
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                   19,254                       –                       –                       –
Company
Year ended 30 September 2014                                                                                                 Within 1 year                  1-2 years                  2-5 years  More than 5 years
                                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Borrowings                                                                                                                 5,111                7,000              20,970                       –
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                  23,455                       –                       –                       –
Year ended 30 September 2013                                                                                                   Within 1 year                   1-2 years                   2-5 years     More than 5 years
                                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Borrowings                                                                                                                      53                     54                   166                   446
Trade and other payables (less deferred income and statutory liabilities)                   14,841                       –                       –                       –
The outflow of financial liabilities will not be earlier than the periods stated and neither will they be significantly different to
those indicated.
A summary of the undrawn facilities the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk is shown below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                  30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                  2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Undrawn facilities
Unsecured bank loan                                                                                                  8,000                6,000                8,000                6,000
                                                                                                                                   8,000                6,000                8,000                6,000
The revolving facility is due for renewal on 23 January 2018. 
e)        Capital risk – The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern in order to provide returns to shareholders. The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes
borrowings (note 22) and cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to owners of the parent, comprising issued
share capital (note 20), other reserves and retained earnings. See above for details of the Group’s borrowing facilities
arranged in 2014.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
69
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 69 24 Cash generated from operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Year ended                Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
Group                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                     11,540              12,381
Adjustments for
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                           1,208                   565
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                4,286                2,191
Employee share scheme charges                                                                                                                                                  419                   216
Loss/(Profit) on sale of tangible assets                                                                                                                                               2                    (10)
Provisions for other liabilities                                                                                                                                                              –                  (946)
Movements in working capital
Inventories                                                                                                                                                                                    (144)                  279
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                            95               (1,825)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                          (1,239)               1,554
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                                         16,167              14,405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Year ended                Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September           30 September
Company                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                     11,300              11,674
Adjustments for
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                              272                   323
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                   848                   535
Employee share scheme charges                                                                                                                                                  419                   216
Loss on sale of tangible assets                                                                                                                                                         2                       –
Provisions for other liabilities                                                                                                                                                              –                  (946)
Movements in working capital
Inventories                                                                                                                                                                                         1                       3
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                         (564)                    11
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                           8,511               (5,856)
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                                         20,789                5,960
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
Consolidated movement of net debt                                                                                                                                                                                             2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Net decrease/(increase) in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                             (14,137)              (3,425)
Capitalisation of loan fees                                                                                                                                                              724                       –
Net increase/(decrease) in borrowings                                                                                                                                     (32,955)                    52
Total cash flows in net debt                                                                                                                                                     (46,368)              (3,373)
Amortisation of loan fees                                                                                                                                                              (132)                      –
Net debt at beginning of year                                                                                                                                                   17,211              20,584
Net debt at end of year                                                                                                                                                        (29,289)             17,211
25 Other commitments
At 30 September 2014 the Group and Company had minimum future lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases
as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Land and buildings 
Expiry date:
Within one year                                                                                                                          628                   549                   413                   434
Between one and two years                                                                                                       580                   329                   410                   329
Between two and five years                                                                                                       946                   756                   523                   756
                                                                                                                                               2,154                1,634                1,346                1,519
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
70
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 70                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group                        Group                 Company                  Company
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September           30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Motor vehicles
Expiry date:
Within one year                                                                                                                            47                     54                       –                       –
Between one and two years                                                                                                         32                     47                       –                       –
Between two and five years                                                                                                           2                     24                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                                    81                   125                       –                       –
26 Share based payments
Share option scheme
The Group’s EMI scheme was adopted on 22 December 2004. Under the Group’s EMI Scheme, options which are qualifying
options under the Enterprise Management Incentive regime and also unapproved options may be granted.
On 18 January 2006, the Group granted a series of 429,307 EMI scheme options (EMI 2006). The options can be exercised from
December 2008 if the option holder is still an employee of the Group and subject to certain performance criteria all of which were
met. There were 10,326 EMI 2006 options outstanding as at 30 September 2014 (2013: 20,231).
On 17 January 2007, the Group granted a further series of 1,147,907 EMI scheme options (EMI 2007). The options can be
exercised in December 2009 if the option holder is still an employee of the Group and subject to certain performance criteria all of
which were met. There were 35,711 EMI 2007 options outstanding as at 30 September 2014 (2013: 53,828).
On 3 July 2008, the Group granted a further series of 243,018 EMI scheme options (EMI 2008). The options can be exercised in
July 2011 if the option holder is still an employee of the Group and subject to certain performance criteria all of which were met.
There were 7,380 EMI 2008 options outstanding as at 30 September 2014 (2013: 22,140).
A long term incentive plan (“LTIP 2013”) was established on 8 February 2013. The options can be exercised three years after the
grant date if the option holder is still an employee of the Group and certain performance criteria have been met. There were
221,905 were outstanding at 30 September 2014 (2013: 305,162).
On 12 June 2014, the Group issued further options as part of the long term incentive plan (LTIP 2014). The options can be
exercised three years after the grant date if the option holder is still an employee of the Group and certain performance criteria
have been met. A total of 458,190 options were issued under this scheme during the year and all 458,190 were outstanding at 30
September 2014 (2013: nil).
Outstanding options by scheme;
Date of Grant                                                                                                                                        Scheme                     Exercise                     Exercise          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                        price (pence)                       period                         2014                         2013
18 January 2006                                                                                               EMI                102.5        2008-2016              10,326              20,231
17 January 2007                                                                                               EMI                150.5        2009-2017              35,711              53,828
3 July 2008                                                                                                       EMI                135.5        2011-2018                7,380              22,140
8 February 2013                                                                                     LTIP 2013                      nil        2016-2026            139,366            222,623
18 June 2013                                                                                         LTIP 2013                      nil        2016-2026              82,539              82,539
12 June 2014                                                                                         LTIP 2014                      nil        2017-2027            458,190                       –
                                                                                                                                                                                              733,512            401,361
Details of the Group’s EMI and LTIP 2013 schemes are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 38. 
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 30 September 2014 is shown below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2014                         2013                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Weighted average                                       Weighted average
                                                                                                                                                                                              Number         exercise price                     Number            exercise price
Outstanding at 1 October                                                                                                    401,361                  32.8p       4,383,355                    8.0p
Granted                                                                                                                               508,190                     nil            305,162                      nil
Forfeited                                                                                                                             (100,162)                 23.2p         (970,005)                   2.2p
Exercised                                                                                                                             (25,877)               132.1p      (3,317,151)                   9.1p
Outstanding at 30 September                                                                                             783,512                    9.5p          401,361                  32.8p
Exercisable at 30 September                                                                                                 53,417                139.1p            96,199                136.9p
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £510,000 (2013: £625,000) including a
provision for employers national insurance contributions of £91,000 (2013: £409,000), all of which related to equity-settled share
based payment transactions.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
71
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:35  Page 71 27 Related party transactions
In the opinion of the Board, key management is defined as members of the Group’s Operational Board as well as Executive Board
members. For further disclosure see note 6.
Sales made between Group entities are eliminated in the Group financial statements. The amount of revenue and expense
recognised in the Company and subsidiaries financial statements are as follows. 
Revenue Expenses
                                                                                                                                                                                   30 September          30 September          30 September           30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014                         2013                         2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Alternative Networks plc                                                                                                                 –                       –                   224                   308
Aurora Kendrick James Limited                                                                                                  562                   598                       –                       –
Scalable Communications plc                                                                                                         –                     25                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                                  562                   623                   224                   308
No dividends were declared and paid to the Company by its subsidiaries during the current or prior year.
Amounts payable to and receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and subject to a notional
interest charge calculated at 0.8% per annum (2013: 0.8%). These amounts are disclosed in Note 18 and Note 21.
During the year Mark Quartermaine was Vice President of UK & Ireland for Juniper Networks. The Group purchased £1,777,459
(2013: £860,021) of equipment and maintenance support from Juniper Networks during the year. The balance outstanding at the
end of the year was £420,351 (2013: £58,360). 
During the prior year Ben Marnham settled a loan due to the Employee Benefit Trust for £277,000, which in turn repaid the
Company. This related to the award of 638,400 shares to Ben Marnham, which were being held by the trust. The Employee
Benefit Trust then bought the shares back at £2.815 per share which was the market value at the date of purchase (3 January
2013). The total consideration was £1,797,096.
During the prior year Jim Sewell settled a loan due to the Employee Benefit Trust for £277,000, which in turn repaid the Company.
This related to the award of 638,400 shares to Jim Sewell, which were being held by the trust. 
28 Reconciliation to adjusted performance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
Reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA                                                                                                                                                                                                 2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Profit before tax                                                                                                                                                                     10,363              12,485
Adjustments
Amortisation of purchased customer contracts and other intangibles (excluding computer software)                                         3,496                1,820
Share based payments and associated social security expense                                                                                                    510                   625
Tender offer costs and Board changes                                                                                                                                              –                   177
Acquisition costs and associated items                                                                                                                                      2,047                       –
Adjusted profit before tax                                                                                                                                                    16,416              15,107
Finance income                                                                                                                                                                              (25)                 (115)
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                                             1,202                     11
Adjusted operating profit                                                                                                                                                     17,593              15,003
Add: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                   1,208                   565
Add: Amortisation of computer software                                                                                                                                       790                   371
Adjusted EBITDA                                                                                                                                                                   19,592              15,939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September
Reconciliation of adjusted profits for earnings per share                                                                                                                                                     2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Adjusted profit before tax (see above)                                                                                                                                16,416              15,107
Less: Share based payments                                                                                                                                                       (510)                 (625)
Less: Taxation per consolidated statement of comprehensive income                                                                                       (2,285)              (2,826)
Less: Taxation on amortisation of purchased customer contracts and other intangibles (excluding computer software)               (769)                 (428)
Adjusted profit after tax                                                                                                                                                            12,852              11,228
Adjusted EPS is calculated on adjusted earnings after deduction of share option costs.
This analysis is provided as the Group considers it provides a truer reflection of the underlying performance of the business, and is
common practice in the investment analyst community.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
72
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:36  Page 72 Acquisition costs and associated items consist of the following:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September          30 September 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2014                         2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                        £’000
Direct costs of acquisitions in the year                                                                                                                                       1,263                       –
Restructuring and redundancy costs                                                                                                                                             784                       –
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,047                       –
29 Acquisition of Intercept IT Limited
On 9 January 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Intercept IT Limited (Intercept) and obtained control of the
Company. Based in London, Intercept is one of the UK’s leading cloud computing and virtualisation service providers. As a result of
the acquisition, the Group expects to broaden its range of IT services offered, have greater cross-selling opportunities and to
reduce costs through increased Group purchasing power.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 9 January 2014 contributed by Intercept was
£7,044,000. Intercept also contributed profit after tax of £613,000 over the same period.
The following unaudited pro forma summary presents consolidated information of the Group as if the business combination had
occurred on 1 October 2013.
Pro forma period ended 30 September 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £’000
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                              9,034
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation                                                                                                                                                                 817
These amounts have been calculated after applying the Group’s accounting policies from 1 October 2013, together with the
consequential tax effects.
The following tables summarise the consideration transferred to acquire Intercept and the amounts of identified assets acquired
and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Fair value of consideration transferred
At 9 January 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000
Cash                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12,458
Total consideration transferred                                                                                                                                                                     12,458
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed                                                                                                                                                                
Fair value
At 9 January 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £’000
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                                       68
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                                                 1,534
Customer related assets (included in intangibles)                                                                                                                                                 4,627
Technology (included in intangibles)                                                                                                                                                                        423
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                                                196
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                                                                                 138
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                                    (1,672)
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                            (218)
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,010)
Total identifiable net assets                                                                                                                                                                             4,086
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,372
Total consideration                                                                                                                                                                                         12,458
There is no contingent consideration to be paid as part of the acquisition.
The fair value of trade and other receivables was £1,534,000 and included trade receivables with a fair value of £1,313,000. The
gross contractual amount for trade receivables due was £1,320,000, of which £7,000 was impaired at the acquisition date.
The residual goodwill of £8,372,000 arising from the acquisition consists largely of the workforce of the acquired business and the
significant synergies and economies of scale expected from combining the operations of the Group and Intercept.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group incurred £222,000 of third-party costs related to this acquisition. These expenses are included in operating costs in the
Company’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
73
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:36  Page 73 74
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements continued  
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
30 Acquisition of Control Circle Limited
On 23 January 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Control Circle Limited (Control Circle) and obtained
control of the Company. Control Circle is a UK-based provider of complex managed hosting and cloud based services to
enterprises and online businesses. As a result of the acquisition, the Group will now have a comprehensive and compelling data
and IT services portfolio including managed and cloud based services, such as managed hosting, datacentre visualisation and
application management. Furthermore the enlarged Group offering will allow clients to choose private or public hosted cloud
services.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 23 January 2014 contributed by Control Circle
was £16,611,000. Control Circle also contributed profit after tax of £421,000 over the same period.
The following unaudited pro forma summary presents consolidated information of the Group as if the business combination had
occurred on 1 October 2013.
Pro forma year ended 30 September 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                              Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £’000
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                            22,077
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation                                                                                                                                                                 468
These amounts have been calculated after applying the Group’s accounting policies from 1 October 2013, together with the
consequential tax effects.
The following tables summarise the consideration transferred to acquire Control Circle and the amounts of identified assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Fair value of consideration transferred
At 23 January 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               £’000
Cash                                                                                                                                                                                                                  39,315
Total consideration transferred                                                                                                                                                                     39,315
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed                                                                                                                                                                
Fair value
At 23 January 2014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               £’000
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                                     825
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                                                 4,520
Deposits                                                                                                                                                                                                                 150
Customer related assets (included in intangibles)                                                                                                                                               16,576
Technology (included in intangibles)                                                                                                                                                                        467
Software licences (included in intangibles)                                                                                                                                                              461
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                                             1,613
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                                                                              1,712
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                                    (7,095)
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                            (480)
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                          (3,409)
Total identifiable net assets                                                                                                                                                                           15,340
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                             23,975
Total consideration                                                                                                                                                                                         39,315
There is no contingent consideration to be paid as part of the acquisition.
The fair value of trade and other receivables was £4,520,000 and included trade receivables with a fair value of £3,467,000. The
gross contractual amount for trade receivables due was £4,279,000, of which £811,000 was impaired at the acquisition date.
The residual goodwill of £23,975,000 arising from the acquisition consists largely of the workforce of the acquired business and the
significant synergies and economies of scale expected from combining the operations of the Group and Control Circle.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group incurred £1,041,000 of third-party costs related to this acquisition. These expenses are included in operating costs in
the Company’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September 2014.
31 Post balance sheet events
Subsequent to the year end the Group entered into a property lease contract at 240 Blackfriars Road. This will become the
Group’s new headquarters and registered address. Due to a rent free period the annual commitment within one year is zero.
164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW_164702 Alternative Networks R&A Pt3 NEW  19/12/2014  18:36  Page 74 Strategic Report
Alternative at a Glance
Our Method
Everything we do is aligned to our customers’ desired business 
outcomes. Each solution is designed with the customer, with 
full visibility and control at all times and underpinned by end to 
end accountability.
Our Customers
Alternative supports a wide variety of customers, from legal, 
professional and financial services, healthcare, higher education 
and multi national operations, to mission critical public services, 
all of which rely on effective and dependable technology 
products and solutions.
Our Partners
We have close working relationships with product and service 
vendors, with whom we hold top partner accreditations 
and have access to the latest technologies, as well as the 
commercial advantages presented by having a wide choice of 
suppliers.
Strategic Report
Alternative at a Glance  2
Chairman’s Statement  6
Chief Executive Officer's Review 8
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 22
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors  26
Directors and Advisers  28
Directors’ Report 29
Corporate Governance Report  33
Remuneration Report  37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report  43 
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income  45
Consolidated and Company Statement   
of Financial Position  46
Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 47
Company Statement of Changes   
in Equity 48
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 49
Company Statement of Cash Flows 50
Notes to the Financial Statements 51
Alternative provides   
IT solutions to businesses 
from device to datacentre
Contents Alternative Networks PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
ALTERNATIVE NETWORKS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
