 IGas Energy Plc
Annual report  
and accounts
2011/12
Onshore 
energy:
delivering a  
secure future
IGas Energy Plc Annual report and accounts 2011/12 IGas Energy is an upstream oil 
and gas company focused on 
delivering discovered 
hydrocarbons in Britain.
We are now the largest 
operator of oil and gas  
ﬁelds onshore in Britain.
By focusing on delivering 
secure energy for Britain,  
we aim to deliver value  
to our shareholders.
Overview
01 Highlights 2011/12
02 Delivering a secure energy future for Britain
04 IGas at a Glance
06 IGas delivering a secure future
Business Review
08 Chairman’s statement
10 Chief Executive Officer’s review
12 Chief Financial Officer’s review
14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Corporate Governance
16 Directors
18 Corporate governance
19 Directors’ remuneration report
21 Directors’ report
24 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
25 Independent auditor’s report
26 Consolidated income statement
27 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
28 Consolidated balance sheet
29 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
30 Consolidated cash flow statement
31 Consolidated financial statements – notes
Parent financial statements
57 Parent Company financial statements – Directors’ 
statement of responsibilities in respect thereof
58 Independent auditor’s report
59 Parent Company statement of  
comprehensive income
60 Parent Company balance sheet
61 Parent Company statement of changes in equity
62 Parent Company cash flow statement
63 Parent Company financial statements – notes
77 Oil and Gas Reserves
Annual General Meeting
78 Proposed business of the Annual General Meeting
81  Notice of Annual General Meeting
83  Glossary
IBC General information
Contents 01
Overview IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
Highlights
2011/12 
£22. 1m 2,700 boe
960,000 boe 152
Since last year IGas Energy has moved from being a non-operated 
partner in the appraisal of unconventional prospects, to operating 
and controlling material production and resources across Britain.
Strategic
 > Acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Ltd and Star Energy Group Limited leading 
to majority owned and operated asset base 
 > Since the acquisition of Star Energy
1
:
 – 2P reserves upgraded by ca. 1 million boe
 – 2P NPV
10
 materially increased to £173MM 
 > Secured both equity and debt (£101.5m (net proceeds)) to fund acquisitions and 
provide working capital
 > Secured staff, equipment and fiscal synergies needed to pursue growing 
resource base
 > Process commenced to identify suitable farm-in partner for IGas Energy’s shale 
assets; Greenhill, the investment bank, mandated as its advisor 
Operational
 > Safety
 – One year with no LTI (lost time incidents)
 – RoSPA Gold Medal award
 – Attained ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification
 > Drilled 3 wells (DG-3, DG-4, Ince Marshes-1)
 > Significant shale resource potential identified
 > CBM delivery appraisal on-going
 > Production at year end of 2,700boepd
 > ‘Chase the barrels’ initiative launched
 > Integration of Nexen Exploration UK Ltd and Star Energy Group Limited acquisitions
Financial
2
 > Revenue – £22.1m (2010: £0.7m)
 > Gross profit – £10.1m (2010: £0.1m)
 > Underlying operating profit
3
 – £5.3m (2010: loss £1.7m)
 > Pro forma revenue
4
 for 12 months to 31 March 2012 – £69.0m (2010: £0.7m)
 > Cash at 31 March 2012 – £7.9m (31 December 2010: £12.1m)
 > Borrowings less cash
5
 at 31 March 2012 – £74.2m (31 December 2010: cash £12.1m) 
 > Debt of £7.6m will have been repaid in the period from drawdown to 30 June 
2012 with an anticipated further debt principal repayment of £12.0m  
by 31 March 2013, a deleveraging of nearly 25%
1 Since acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited; with revision in reserves being due to an updated Competent Persons 
Report, with IGas now having access to all fields and data.
2  Accounts are for the fifteen month period from 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2012, due to change in accounting year 
end. The comparators are for the year ended 31 December 2010
3 Underlying operating profit excludes the loss on oil price swaps of £18.5m and acquisition costs of £3.0m
4 Revenue for Star Energy Group Limited for the 12 months from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012
5 Borrowings excludes capitalised transaction costs of £7.6m
Revenue – 15 months to 31 March 2012 
Production – year to 31 March 2012*
Daily production as at 31 March 2012
Number of staff
* Production shown is from 1 April 2011, the effective date of the 
acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited, until 31 March 2012. 
Production from 14 December 2011, the date of completion of the 
Star Energy acquisition, to 31 March 2012 was 280,000 boe. Overview
02
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
Delivering
a secure  
energy future
for Britain IGas now has a leading position in both 
unconventional and conventional 
hydrocarbons on-shore in Britain. The 
early indications of the potential from 
the shale resource within our acreage 
show that it could be large enough to 
materially reduce Britain’s reliance on 
imported gas.
Hydrocarbons from unconventional sources have 
transformed the global market. The results of this 
year’s programme, particularly from our well at Ince 
Marshes, are potentially transformational for the 
Group. Here we logged and took samples over a 
c.1,000ft shale section and have now interpreted 
these results. This has led to a more than doubling 
of the pre-drill estimate of gas initially in place. 
Following a number of unsolicited expressions of 
interest, from companies with both significant shale 
exposure and expertise, we have now appointed 
investment bank Greenhill to secure industry 
partners for the development of our acreage  
in the Bowland Shale.
We continue with the testing of our coal bed 
methane assets. The wells at Doe Green are 
currently dewatering.
Our conventional production assets offer the 
opportunity to maintain and potentially enhance 
current production levels. To maximise this 
opportunity we have launched a ‘chase the barrels’ 
initiative to assess the existing fields and well stock 
so as to engineer potential projects based on 
current production technology and a better 
understanding of the sub surface.
>100
Total operational sites
IGas well services Division
 > Eight service units
 > 20 Technicians
 > Country wide coverage
“ Natural Gas is a critical part of 
the UK energy mix today and 
will continue to have a crucial 
role tomorrow” 
 
Charles Hendry MP , Minister of State for the 
Department of Energy and Climate Change.
“…I am fully alert to the 
potential [of shale] and I  
am looking very closely at  
this industry with energy 
independence and security  
of vital importance to  
our country…”
 
Rt Hon David Cameron, Prime Minister
03
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12 IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
04
Overview
IGas at a Glance: 
From reservoir to reﬁnery
With assets ranging from mature 
discoveries made more than 50 years 
ago, to unconventional resources 
only now recoverable as a result  
of technical advances in oil ﬁeld 
practices, IGas has a very signiﬁcant 
position in discovered and potentially 
deliverable hydrocarbon resources 
across Britain.
In the North West and Staffordshire 
we have more than 500,000 acres 
under licence, which are primarily  
for the development of 
unconventional resources.
The size of the CBM resource has been 
demonstrated and its delivery potential is currently 
being appraised. As regards shale, this year’s 
activity has begun appraisal of the potential.  
Within this area we have drilled a total of ten 
wells and have an extensive library of other 
borehole data and pre-existing 2D and 3D 
seismic. With seven sites already permitted and 
a similar number being pursued in the area, we 
are well positioned to develop these resources 
close to markets and customers, once the 
appraisal phase is completed and repeatable 
commercial flow rates have been demonstrated 
from both the coal and shale horizons.
North West/Staffs
7
Under appraisal
2
Potential production sites (approved permits)
The Weald basin is the source of 
approximately 40% of our current 
production.
With eight fields ranging from Stockbridge in 
the west, near Winchester, to Palmers Wood 
near Gatwick in the East. The area has 
produced more than 29 million barrels of oil to 
date. Our oil is collected by tanker from our sites 
and transported to our processing facilities at 
Holybourne. Here we have storage for more 
than 20,000 barrels and a rail terminal allowing 
us to transport our products to local refineries 
by train. We also handle oil on behalf of other 
operators in the area, providing IGas with a 
valuable additional revenue stream.
Weald Basin
17
>29million
8
Production sites
Total barrels of oil produced to date 
1
Number of fields
Total barrels of oil produced to date
Number of fields
In the East Midlands we have two 
primary production centres: Welton 
and Gainsborough/Beckingham.
Hydrocarbons have been produced in the East 
Midlands since 1959 and current production 
from this area accounts for approximately 60% 
of Group’s total current production.
The Welton area is made up of six fields and a 
gathering centre where the produced oil, gas 
and water are separated. The produced oil is 
transported to Conoco Immingham via road 
tanker, gas is used for power generation and 
produced water is pumped for reinjection.
The Gainsborough/Beckingham area is made 
up of eleven fields and a processing facility. Oil is 
transported to Conoco Immingham via road 
tanker, gas is piped to Gainsborough-1 for 
power generation and produced water is 
pumped for reinjection.
East Midlands
80
>31million
17
Production sites
Total barrels of oil produced to date
1
Number of fields
1  Refers to the period since the wells came on stream IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
05
Weald basin
North West/Staffs
East Midlands IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
06
Overview
IGas delivering 
a secure future
Leading UK Oil & Gas onshore  
business with:
 –Considerable scale
 – Predominantly 100% owned and 
operated production and resources
 – Footprint in the proliﬁc producing  
East Midlands and Weald Basins
 – Extensive acreage in the high potential 
unconventional basins of the North 
West/Staffs (including Bowland Shale) 
and North Wales
 – Portfolio of booked reserves and 
material resources
 – Signiﬁcant cash ﬂows, allowing  
for rapid deleveraging
 – Experienced execution team
 – Opportunity to leverage conventional 
assets, equipment, personnel and ﬁscal 
synergies to unlock unconventional 
resources potential
IGas has had its reserves 
reassessed by Senergy
1
 
with IGas now having 
access to all ﬁelds and 
data. Adjusted for 
production, this shows an 
increase in 2P reserves of 
almost 1 million boe, as at  
1 January 2012, and a 
reserves replacement ratio, 
on a 1P basis, of 117% and 
on a 2P basis of 194%
1
.
Resource and Reserves
Senergy CPR Results
1P 2P 3P
CPR 1.7.11 (MMboe) 6.52 11.13 16.65
Cumulative production 
1.7.11–31.12.11 
(MMboe) (0.47) (0.47) (0.47)
Revisions and additions 
(MMboe) 0.55 0.91 0.15
CPR 1.1.12 (MMboe) 6.6 11.57 16.33
Reserves replacement 
ratio 1.17 1.94 0.32
1 Senergy was requested to provide an update to its 2011 independent evaluation of the recoverable hydrocarbons expected for each 
asset categorised in accordance with the 2007 Petroleum Resources Management System, Gross reserves or resources are defined as 
the total estimated petroleum to be produced from the fields evaluated as at 1 January 2012 Balanced portfolio of producing 
and development assets
 –  Potential for signiﬁcant upside to  
the existing oil production
 – Combined business presents 
opportunities to grow  
production proﬁle
 – Considerable ﬁscal synergies
Experienced operational team
 – 152 personnel experienced in both oil 
and gas production, development 
and operations
 – Technical team with a proven  
track record
 – Highly experienced site operators
 – Operational assets to deliver 
 – Own well services  
division including: 
 – 3 work over rigs 
 – 1 hot oil ﬂush rig
 – 4 pump trucks
 – 6 road tanker tractor units
 – Signiﬁcant oil storage and 
bunkering including 2 rail heads
Signiﬁcant cash ﬂows
 – Facilitate rapid deleveraging 
 – Debt of £7.6m will have been repaid 
in the period from drawdown to 30 
June 2012 with an anticipated further 
debt principal repayment of £12.0m 
by 31 March 2013, a deleveraging of 
nearly 25%
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
07
1P/1C/Low 2P/2C/Medium 3P/3C/High Actions
Reserves
(MMboe)
Resources
(MMboe)
Unconventional 
appraisal
Review of well stock 
and production 
upside programe
5.84
0.76
10.15
1.42
14.62
1.71
242 312
5
412
 Oil
 Gas
 Oil
 Gas IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
08
Business review
Chairman’s
statement
Since 1 January 2011 we have 
moved from being a non-operated 
partner having equity interests in 
CBM licences under appraisal, to 
delivering material hydrocarbon 
production, having full control (as 
operator) and ownership (100%  
in most cases) of our assets and 
having early indications of 
signiﬁcant shale resource 
potential.
The potential of IGas as a dedicated upstream 
oil and gas company to contribute to the energy 
security of the country has become very much 
more significant. With our current production 
and potentially enormous unconventional 
resources we are set to be a material part of 
Britain’s energy mix going forward. The 
comments by the chancellor in the budget 
regarding the importance of gas, by the Prime 
Minister regarding investigating shale (in a safe 
manner) and the anticipated agreement by 
DECC, after an independent review and public 
consultation into the resumption of hydraulic 
fraccing of shale, show the renewed commitment 
of the government to developing a gas based 
strategy to augment other forms of generation. 
This strategy is of course in the context of ensuring 
that domestic resources are fully utilised in a 
safe and environmentally responsible way; to 
which we too are fully committed.
Through the two acquisitions made in 201 1, the 
first in March of Nexen Exploration UK Limited 
and then in December of Star Energy Group 
Limited, we have transformed our Company into 
being the largest operator of oil and gas fields 
onshore Britain. In financing these transactions 
we have strengthened our shareholder base 
with Nexen now holding 25% of IGas’ equity. 
We have also raised more than £100 million of 
long-term debt and equity, to finance these 
transactions and our operations during the 
period. The Company’s healthy production, has 
enabled debt of £7 .6m to have been repaid in 
the period from drawdown to 30 June 2012, 
with an anticipated further debt principal 
repayment of £12.0m by 31 March 2013, a 
deleveraging of nearly 25%. Looking forward, 
in addition to healthy production, the coming 
year should see us starting to realise the 
synergies made available to us from last year’s 
acquisitions, designed to help unlock the 
Company’s very considerable resource potential. 
In this regard the announced plan to farm-out 
some of IGas’ shale acreage, subject always to 
the terms being attractive for the Company and 
thereby shareholders, should be another 
important milestone.
With 152 employees at the year end, their health, 
safety and well-being are of upmost importance 
to the Board. We are pleased to report that we 
have now had more than a year with no lost 
time incidents.
Finally, I would like to welcome all of the former 
employees of Star Energy to IGas. Together, and 
focused on onshore energy, we are delivering a 
secure future.
Francis Gugen
Non-Executive Chairman
Unlocking 
potential 09
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
Period in review
MAR 2012
Analysis of Ince Marshes logs  
and samples
FEB 2012
Completion of drilling at Doe 
Green. Commence de-watering
JAN 2012
Completion of well at Ince Marshes
Appraisal of shale resources
DEC 2011
Completion of Star Energy  
Group Limited acquisition
NOV 2011
Drilling at Ince Marshes-1 
commences
OCT 2011
Drilling at Doe Green-4 (DG-4) 
commences 
SEPT 2011
Signed the sale and purchase 
agreement for acquisition of Star 
Energy Group Limited from Petronas
Appointed Stephen Bowler as CFO
JULY 2011
Construction of third well at  
Doe Green begins (DG-3)
JUNE 2011
Signed second drilling contract. 
Secured the BDF rig 28 for  
well programme
MAR 2011
Completion of Nexen Exploration 
UK Ltd acquisition and placing
FEB 2011
Announced joint venture with 
Meehan Drilling
JAN 2011
Signing of Nexen Exploration  
UK Ltd agreement 10
Business review IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
The outlook for 2012 and  
beyond sees IGas demonstrating 
the deliverability of our 
unconventional resources while 
continuing to deliver from our 
conventional ﬁelds.
The last fifteen months, since January 2011 
have seen IGas move to controlling its assets 
and delivering production in Britain. The 
acquisition of Star Energy Group has brought 
us not only material current production and 
significant sub-surface upside potential but the 
people, skills, equipment and fiscal synergies 
that are essential to deliver onshore in  
Britain from both conventional and 
unconventional resources.
Our plans to demonstrate the deliverability of 
our unconventional assets continue. We have 
drilled three wells this year, two at Doe Green 
into different seams. DG-3 is a c.1,500ft lateral 
in the London Delph seam. Drilled with the 
BDF28 rig, the well was completed safely  
on the 4 October. The rig then drilled DG-4 
well into the Plodder seam at a depth of 
3,560ftTVSS. Again this well was drilled safely 
and the rig left site on 14 February 2012.  
Both wells were more complicated geologically 
than anticipated, however we were able to 
install slotted liners over a total length of 
c.2,500ft. All three wells (DG-2, DG-3 and 
DG-4) have now been hooked up to the 
production facilities on site since mid-March 
2012 and we are currently de-watering the 
wells (this process is taking longer than 
anticipated). We look forward, post the 
de-watering process to announcing stabilised 
production rates from these wells to add to 
the production history we have from DG-2.
Getting the most from the mature assets in the 
Weald and East Midlands is a key priority for 
our Company and we are delighted with 
production levels, which at the year end were 
2,700boepd. To this end, we have launched  
a ‘chase the barrels’ initiative which is to seek 
out opportunities for increasing production and 
up time and reducing lifting costs. Several 
projects have already been identified. Following a 
successful production test at Albury where gas 
was shown to flow at commercial rates, 
planning permission has been applied for to 
install export equipment. Other areas under 
The acquisition 
of Star Energy 
transforms our 
business.
“The development of gas from 
shale horizons clearly needs to be 
carried out in a way that engages 
with and is supported by other 
stakeholders in the area. In all of 
our operations to date both from 
conventional and unconventional 
reservoirs, our relations with those 
around us have always been key 
and will continue to remain so”
Andrew Austin, CEO, IGas Energy 11
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
have discovered a potentially world class shale 
resource. Clearly further wells and analysis are 
required to fully appraise the shale and 
critically flow tests need to be performed, 
however our results combined with those of 
operators in neighbouring licences in the 
Bowland Shale are extremely encouraging.
The development of gas from shale horizons 
clearly needs to be carried out in a way that 
engages with and is supported by other 
stakeholders in the area. In all of our 
operations to date both from conventional 
and unconventional reservoirs, our relations 
with those around us have always been key 
and will continue to remain so. 
It is customary practice at IGas to fully consult 
with the local community and other relevant 
stakeholder groups in all the local areas in 
which we operate.
We believe that gas extracted locally, including 
shale gas is potentially a very important part 
of the future energy mix in the UK and provides 
a number of benefits including local jobs  
and secure and potentially cheaper energy  
to local consumers.
The shale horizons we have so far identified 
underlie existing identified CBM resources. 
This offers the opportunity to develop both 
resources in tandem and thereby enhancing the 
economics of both, but particularly of the CBM.
I am particularly pleased to announce that our 
production division has recently been awarded 
our 2nd Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents Gold Medal Award to complement 
our 4 previous Gold Awards. Receipt of these 
6 consecutive Awards is a terrific testament  
to the dedication and commitment of all 
employees and our appointed contractors  
in ensuring we continue to apply the highest 
safety standards across our operations.
The process of integrating both acquisitions 
made last year is proceeding well. The 
acquisition of Star Energy required integration 
of more than 150 people and a significant 
number of legacy systems. We have been 
successful in achieving all of our “100 day” 
goals and now have an integrated HSE, 
emergency response and IT platform as well 
as having relocated the head office staff to 
IGas offices in London.
Andrew Austin
Chief Executive Officer
consideration include the installation of rod 
pump controllers to reduce wear and the need 
for work overs. Further installation of remote 
monitoring and energy management 
arrangements are also being considered to 
reduce operating expenditure. We are looking 
to carry out another well test in the Weald Basin 
shortly. This will be to assess the commerciality 
of previously shut in wells. Following this test a 
decision will be made on the installation of 
export facilities at this location.
While the basins have been in production for 
considerable periods of time, the proportion 
of in place hydrocarbons to date recovered is 
still low and using modern techniques we are 
confident of the future potential of the assets.
Successful appraisal of our unconventional 
resource potential continued with Ince 
Marshes-1 well, which was spudded on  
4 November 2011. This well was planned to 
log and core the coals in the area around which 
less was known than elsewhere in our portfolio. 
The entire coal sequence was encountered 
shallower than anticipated and the decision 
was taken to continue to drill into the deeper 
horizons to better understand the geology 
and resource potential of the area. While it was 
anticipated that shale would be encountered, 
the results of the drilling, the logs and samples 
received, completely surpassed our expectations. 
We encountered and logged a significant 
Bowland Shale section of approximately 1,000ft. 
The well was TD’d in the Bowland Shale due 
to the limitations imposed by the CBM well 
design criteria. The well was suspended so 
that it might be re-entered and deepened  
at a later stage to fully appraise the entire 
thickness of the Bowland Shale. The logs and 
samples were sent for independent analysis. 
These results indicate a resource in excess of 
twice the pre-drill estimate and with the total 
organic carbon (“TOC”) observed between 
1.2 and 6.9 (average 2.7) and initial analysis of 
the samples support our view that we may 
Our strategy
IGas has accumulated a 
signiﬁcant hydrocarbon 
resource base from 35 oil 
and gas exploration 
licences in the UK. The 
contingent recoverable 
resources, totaling some 
317 million barrels of oil 
and gas equivalent (P50), 
largely from CBM, 
represent a portfolio of 
development opportunities 
which the Company 
intends to exploit over the 
medium term, delivering 
natural gas to the UK’s 
grid, oil to UK reﬁneries 
and enhanced value to the 
Company’s shareholders.
Using the onshore 
expertise of the now 
expanded IGas team, the 
Company will seek to 
enhance recovery from its 
portfolio of mature wells, 
creating avenues to 
improve cash ﬂow which 
will be applied to further 
develop the Company’s 
resource base, while at  
the same time seeking 
synergistic opportunities 
to acquire new onshore oil 
and gas acreage. IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
12
Business review
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review
The fifteen month period to 31 March 2012 
was transformational for the IGas Group, 
through the acquisitions of Star Energy Group 
Limited (“Star Energy”) and Nexen Exploration 
UK Limited alongside its drilling programme. 
Through this activity, IGas has become a full 
cycle oil and gas company with significant 
experience in operating onshore Britain.
Following the acquisition of Nexen Exploration 
UK Limited in March 2011, IGas became  
the operator and 100% owner of each of  
its licences across Britain and increased its 
Contingent Recoverable Resource 2C (P50) by 
115% to 1,736bcf or 290 million barrels of oil 
equivalent (boe). In exchange, Nexen received 
39,714,290 IGas shares equivalent to 29.9% 
of the then issued share capital. This accretive 
transaction laid the foundations for a share 
placing which raised net proceeds of £19.9m 
to fund the Company’s drilling programme, 
whilst broadening and improving the 
Company’s shareholder register.
On 14 December 2011, IGas completed the 
acquisition of Star Energy creating a substantial 
onshore oil and gas company. As a result, the 
financial results for the 15 months ended 31 
March 2012 incorporate 3.5 months of results 
from Star Energy. The consideration of £110m 
was funded through the drawdown of new 
debt facilities with Macquarie Bank ($135m), 
cash generated by Star prior to closing (from 
the effective date of 1 April 2011) and IGas’ 
existing cash resources.
Income statement
The Group recorded revenues of £22.1m in 
the period (2010: £0.7m), of which £2.0m 
(2010: £nil) was generated through the sale 
of third party oil. Group oil production in the 
period since 14 December 2011, the date the 
Star Energy acquisition was completed 
(“Period Post Completion”), was 280mboe, 
representing an average of 2,615boepd with 
production at the year end of 2,700boepd.  
In the Period Post Completion, the realised 
price per barrel (pre-hedge) averaged £73.4 
($117.0) per barrel with narrow discounts to 
Brent crude prices achieved. After taking into 
account the effect of long-term hedging at 
$93.4 the average realised oil price in the 
Period Post Completion was £65.1 ($103.2) 
per barrel. This hedging has the potential to 
be of considerable benefit if the oil price 
environment in existence at the time of 
writing this report continues.
Cost of sales of £12.0m (2010: £0.6m) 
includes depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation (“D,D&A”) of £3.2m (2010: £nil), 
and operating costs of £8.8m (2010: £0.6m), 
including £1.8m charged in relation to 
processing third party oil. Operating costs per 
barrel of oil equivalent were £19.90 
(Operating costs per barrel for Star Energy 
Group Limited for the 12 months from 1 April 
2011 to 31 March 2012 £20.00), excluding 
the third party costs. These costs include 
transportation costs of £3.30/boe and the 
cost of the provision of our well services 
division of £2.64/boe. 
15 months 
to 31 March 
2012
Year to  
31 December 
2010
Revenues £22.1m £0.7m
Gross proﬁt £10.1m £0.1m
Underlying operating proﬁt/(loss)
1
£5.3m £(1.7)m
Net cash used in operating 
activities £2.6m £1.8m
Borrowing less cash/(cash)
2
£74.2m £(12.1)m
Net assets £55.0m £16.7m
1. Underlying operating profit excludes the loss on oil price swap contracts 
of £18.5m and acquisition costs of £3.0m in the period to 31 March 2012
2. Borrowings excludes capitalised transaction costs of £7.6m
The substantial cash flows 
generated have already 
enabled the Group to 
rapidly deleverage. IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
13
Net assets increased by £38.3m over the 
period to £55.0m.
On 9 March 2011, the Group acquired the 
entire issued share capital of Nexen Exploration 
UK Limited for a consideration of £29.2m, 
satisfied through the issue of 39,714,290 IGas 
shares. The acquisition was aligned to the 
Group’s strategy of securing 100% ownership 
of assets and operatorship. 
On 14 December 2011, the Group acquired 
the entire issued share capital of Star Energy 
for a cash consideration of £110m. The Star 
acquisition has been accounted for as a 
business combination by the acquisition method 
of accounting with an effective date of  
14 December 2011, being the date the Group 
gained control of Star Group. Goodwill of 
£15.6m (2010: £nil) relates to the acquisition 
of Star Energy and arises principally due to 
the intangible value gained by the Group 
through now benefiting from an experienced 
team of oil industry professionals operating in 
the UK onshore market; the relationships and 
reputation developed with central and local 
government in Great Britain; the considerable 
potential for discovery of additional reserves 
of both conventional and unconventional 
resources in Star’s licence areas; and a deferred 
tax adjustment arising from the fair value 
exercise. A deferred tax asset of £18.0m has 
been recognised at 31 March 2012 for tax 
losses within the Group, principally in relation 
to £31.6m of corporation tax losses and 
£29.0m of supplementary charge losses 
carried forward, reducing the deferred tax 
liability to a net £23.6m.
Net debt, being borrowings less cash, at the 
year end amounted to £74.6m. Transaction 
costs of £7.6m associated with the debt are 
offset against the drawn debt within the 
balance sheet and will be recognised over the 
life of the loan in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies.
IGas is now well positioned to exploit its 
significant asset base. The substantial cash 
flows generated by the conventional assets 
have already enabled the Group to rapidly 
deleverage with £3.1m ($4.95m) of debt 
principal repaid in the period to 31 March 
2012, and over £7.6m ($12.1m) will have been 
repaid at 30 June 2012, with an anticipated 
further debt principal repayment of £12.0m 
($19.1m) by 31 March 2013 a deleveraging of 
nearly 25%. 
Stephen Bowler
Chief Financial Officer
Administrative expenses were £5.0m (2010: 
1.8m). Acquisitions costs of £3.0m (2010: £nil) 
related to the acquisitions of Star Energy.
The Group entered into oil price hedging during 
the period and in accordance with International 
Auditing Standard (IAS) 39 – “Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” a 
charge was made of £18.5m in relation to the 
loss on oil price swap contracts. Most of the loss 
on these contracts was incurred due to the mark 
to market cost of the financial derivatives which 
the Company had in place at the year end, of 
which £16.1m is non-cash. As at 31 March 2012, 
the Group had 2.28 million barrels hedged over 
the period to 31 December 2017 at an average 
price of $93.4/barrel (55% being in pounds 
sterling), of which 0.53m barrels are hedged in 
the year to 31 March 2013.
Other income amounted to £0.2m and related 
to agency revenues from the processing and 
sale of third party oil. Net finance costs 
amounted to £1.7m (2010: net finance income 
£0.2m) reflecting the debt drawn in December 
2011 to fund the acquisition of Star Energy 
and a £1.7m gain on the revaluation of the 
warrants issued during the period.
Gross profit of £10.1m was recognised in the 
period (2010: £0.1m), with underlying profit, 
before the loss on forward oil contracts and 
acquisition costs of £5.3m (2010: loss £1.7m). 
Loss attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Group was £12.1m (2010: £1.5m).
Cash flow
Cash used in operating activities in the period 
amounted to £2.6m (2010: £1.8m).
On 9 March 2011, the Company raised gross 
proceeds of £20.6m for 27.5m new ordinary 
shares when the acquisition of Nexen 
Exploration U.K. Limited became unconditional 
on 9 March 2011.
The Group drew down £81.5m net of 
expenses under new debt facilities with 
Macquarie Bank to fund the acquisition of 
Star Energy in December 2011. The Group 
repaid £3.1m ($4.95m) of debt principal in the 
period and will have repaid over £7.6m 
($12.2m) by the end of June 2012. 
The Group incurred capital expenditure of 
£17.8m (2010: £3.6m), of which c.£12.5m 
related to drilling costs for its three well 
programme during the period; Ince Marshes-1, 
Doe Green-3 and Doe Green-4.
Balance sheet
The Group’s non-current assets increased by 
£174.2m during the period to £179.1m and 
included the acquisitions of Star Energy and 
Nexen Exploration UK Limited as well as 
expenditure of £19.2m on appraisal drilling  
on the Group’s unconventional assets in the 
North West. 
£22. 1M
£69M
£5.3M
25%
Revenue
Pro forma revenue
Underlying profit
Deleveraging by 31 March 2013 IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
14
Business review
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report 
At IGas we are committed to  
the environment, our employees 
and the communities where  
we operate.
During the period we systematically worked 
to achieve a greater understanding of who 
our stakeholders are, on the basis of our 
current activities and operations. This process 
shall continue as our Company evolves, so that 
we remain aligned, as far as possible, with the 
expectations and needs of our stakeholders 
including readers of this Report. One of our key 
CSR aims is to engage effectively and report 
on issues that are material to our stakeholders.
We are aware of a number of recognised CSR 
standards and sector framework mechanisms, 
and shall continue to evaluate the most 
appropriate approaches to continue improving 
the quality of our future Reports. This year we 
have adopted the approach of the Business in 
the Community’s (BITC) CR framework covering 
the four pillars of: environment, community, 
marketplace and workplace.
Feedback can be provided through the contact 
details noted in this Report or via our website  
(see http://www.igasplc.com/contactus.aspx). 
We are keen to solicit feedback on our 
performance in general and this Report 
specifically, from a growing number of 
stakeholders. At the end of 201 1 the acquisition 
of Star Energy resulted in a step-change in our 
scale, and added a new conventional oil & gas 
aspect to our previously unconventional 
business, as well as additional lifecycle activities 
e.g. road and rail distribution. 
During 2011 we developed SMART Objectives, 
Targets & Management Programmes, and 
these have evolved into KPIs (“key performance 
indicators”). Our aim for future CSR reporting 
is to focus on tangible metrics, and provide a 
description of material issues, governance and 
performance measurement. This year we have 
provided some case studies to demonstrate 
our performance.
Examples of local charities 
we have donated to:
 – Blindley Village Show 
 – Albury Produce Show & 
Music Festival 
 – Rempstone Village 
Jubilee Celebrations 
 – Southampton General 
hospital – childrens unit
Cold Hanworth, an IGas production site in the East Midlands
Albury Produce Show & Music Festival IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
15
We believe that successful management of 
potential CSR risks and impacts is a precondition 
to the continued growth of our Company and 
this sector of the oil & gas industry within 
Britain, with positive implications for the 
supply chain as well as local communities.
One area that IGas has focused on is the 
establishment of a set of onshore industry 
guidelines for well integrity and fraccing 
operations. IGas, as a leading operator of 
unconventional resources (shale and CBM) has 
been a founder member of a cross-party work 
group, conducted under the auspices of 
UKOOG, drafting these guidelines. A key aim 
of these guidelines is to demonstrate, that 
although the industry is highly regulated by 
the relevant authorities (eg DECC/Health & 
Safety Executive and the Environmental Agency 
as well as local Planning authorities), it 
recognises the need to ensure that the 
concerns expressed regarding such issues as 
induced seismicity, aquifer protection, 
chemical transparency, water treatment, 
fugitive emissions etc are acknowledged and 
appropriately addressed by the industry.  
This commitment to establishing what are 
effectively “best practice” guidelines is 
another reflection of the importance IGas 
places on its’ CSR obligations.
Star Energy Group Limited, which we acquired 
at the end of 2011, had a long history of 
effective HSE and CSR management. One 
example is the Albury drilling project (2009 
onwards) in Surrey. Over and above the 
mitigation and restrictions imposed by the 
planning and other permit conditions, the 
project team instigated a number of additional 
measures which, we believe, provided some 
considerable benefit to the surrounding 
community. These included: 
 – Novel bespoke engineering solutions  
e.g. acoustic enclosure for rig;
 – Considerate Constructors Scheme 
membership;
 – Visits for the local village Primary school  
to site; 
 – Financial donations to community projects 
totaling nearly £35,000; 
 – Village enhancement (litter collections, 
new bus shelter and landscaping); and
 – 24 hour complaint line.
We believe that while bringing any Project to 
a successful conclusion requires addressing 
the usual technical challenges, consideration 
must also be given to societal needs since 
working with the community towards the 
declared objective of being a ‘good neighbour’ 
forms a fundamental element of any 
successful company.
1. Environment
During 2011 we achieved certification to the 
Environmental Management standard, ISO 
14001 for IGas Energy plc. This certification 
will be extended during 2012 to all Group 
companies. For all our sites we undertake 
initial risk assessments which focus on 
environmental issues (sensitivity screening 
reports), and have applied impact mitigation 
through all phases up to final site restoration. 
In addition our sites are monitored throughout 
the life of our developments. An example of 
effective mitigation is our Ellesmere Port site 
where we moved the existing grass habitat  
to a secure area of the site prior to Drilling 
operations. We continued to support the 
ecology here through low-impact species 
control, designed to help the most important 
species to thrive.
2. Community 
Where appropriate we seek to set up 
Community Liaison Groups. These are designed 
to allow us to have effective dialogue with local 
community representatives, from preliminary 
planning phases through to operational 
activities. These are further designed to 
enable all parties to have their voices heard 
and concerns responded to in a timely 
fashion. Security and safety of personnel are 
a top priority. In terms of site safety, we 
routinely implement facility HSE and ER Plans 
which include risk assessments and mitigation 
that extend to considering issues within the 
local geographic area. To safeguard our sites 
and localities, we have Emergency 
Preparedness and Response arrangements 
(including regular drills and exercises) and 
Incident Response and Reporting processes. 
3. Marketplace 
During 2011 we achieved certification to the 
Quality Management standard ISO 9001 for 
IGas Energy plc. This certification will be 
extended during 2012 to all Group companies. 
We have developed Anti-bribery and Corruption 
policies and procedures and are actively 
working to ensure these continue to be 
thoroughly implemented throughout our supply 
chain. We operate on the basis of transparent 
purchasing, and collaborative relationships 
with contractors. Vendor selection and 
management includes HSE performance criteria, 
and as a result we also encourage good 
performance by our contractors. In addition 
we are a founder member of the recently 
reconstituted UKOOG association which 
represents the onshore oil industry through 
active engagement with stakeholders and 
promoting best practice.
4. Workplace 
Our Management System is aligned to the 
requirements of the occupational health and 
safety standard, OHSAS 18001. Our aim for 
the future is to achieve certification to this 
standard. In the meantime we are committed 
to our responsibilities to provide appropriate 
working conditions for all our personnel, 
whether staff, contractor or visitor.
Working with the 
community towards  
the declared objective  
of being a ‘good 
neighbour’ forms a 
fundamental element of 
any successful company. IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
16
Corporate Governance
Directors
12 436 57 IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
17
4. Andrew Austin
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew is one of the founders and the Chief 
Executive Officer and previously he specialised 
in energy projects in the gas, electricity and 
renewables sector. Andrew has been an 
Executive Director since 2004 and for the  
last five years has been CEO with full time 
responsibility for day to day operations and 
business development. Prior to joining IGas 
Andrew has been involved in ventures as 
principal and has also raised substantial funds 
from private and public equity for clients during 
the course of his career to date. Andrew spent 
17 years working in investment banking in the 
City of London with Merrill Lynch, Nomura, 
Citibank and Barclays Capital. Latterly he was 
general manager of Creditanstalt Investment 
Bank in London. He also has six years of 
management and consultancy experience with 
clean tech companies including Generics 
Group and Whitfield Solar.
5. John Blaymires
Chief Operating Officer
John has 29 years of international experience 
in the oil and gas industry gained Hess 
Corporation and Shell International. Before 
joining IGas he was Director of Technology 
Development for Hess based in Houston, 
where he helped develop a global engineering 
and geoscience technology group responsible 
for providing support across the E&P business, 
from deepwater to unconventional resources. 
Prior to that John was Technical Director  
for Hess’ operations in West Africa, and 
subsequently South East Asia with responsibility 
for several major oil and gas developments. 
John has a BSc and PhD in Mining Engineering 
from Leeds University.
6. John Hamilton
Non-Executive Director
John is the Managing Director of Levine 
Capital management Advisors Limited, a  
UK incorporated company and interim 
chairman at President Petroleum Corporation 
Plc. John was previously the Group Finance 
Director of Imperial Energy Corporation Plc. 
Prior to joining Imperial Energy, John held 
senior positions at ABN AMRO.
7. Richard Armstrong
Non-Executive Director
Richard is an associate with Fiske plc, the  
AIM quoted stockbrokers. He is a former 
equity analyst with extensive experience in 
reconstructing and raising capital for turnaround 
situations especially in the quoted microcap 
sector, such as Weatherly International plc 
and Artilium plc. In most cases, he has joined 
the board of these companies and has played 
a major role in helping them to acquire or 
establish operating businesses. He is currently 
a director of a number of unquoted companies.
1. Francis Gugen
Non-Executive Chairman
Francis is a founder and Non Executive 
Chairman and has over thirty years’ oil and 
gas industry experience. Between 1982 and 
2000 he helped grow Amerada Hess in North 
West Europe, ultimately becoming CEO. 
Currently he is also non-executive chairman 
of Petroleum Geophysical Services ASA and 
of Chrysaor Limited and a board member of 
SBM Offshore NV, all involved in conventional 
oil & gas. Until 2006 he served as non-executive 
chairman of the start-up North Sea gas fields 
and pipelines operator CH4 Energy Limited, 
which was then disposed of for Euro 224m. 
He is past president of the UK Offshore 
Operators Association, past chair of the 
industries representation on the UK 
Government Oil & Gas Task Force (Pilot)  
and past chair of the CBI’s Environmental 
Affairs Committee. Francis is a chartered 
accountant having worked for Arthur 
Andersen for eight years until 1982, 
principally as an oil and gas specialist. 
2. John Bryant
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
John is the Chairman of AIM listed Weatherley 
International plc, and a board member of 
AIM listed China Africa Resources Plc. He was 
until recently a board member of the Attiki 
Gas Company, which supplies natural gas to 
Athens and the surrounding districts. John 
previously served as president of Cinergy 
Global Resources Corp, responsible for all 
international business and global renewable 
power operations of this US based electricity 
and gas utility provider. Before joining Cinergy, 
John was executive director with Midlands 
Electricity plc. He has been involved in 
developing a number of large gas fired power 
stations both in the UK and overseas, together 
with both electricity and gas distribution in 
Europe and Africa, renewable power in Europe 
and North America and gas and electricity 
trading. His prior experience was at British 
Sugar plc, Drexel Limited, the British Oxygen 
Company and Unilever plc. Drexel, where he 
was president, was a global oil and gas 
equipment manufacturing and servicing 
company. John is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Directors and a Fellow of the Royal Society  
of Arts.
3. Stephen Bowler
Chief Financial Officer
Steve started his career at Touche Ross, now 
Deloitte, where he qualified as a chartered 
accountant having spent time in both their audit 
and corporate finance divisions. In 1999, Steve 
joined ABN Amro Hoare Govett, now Jefferies 
Hoare Govett, where he acted as adviser and 
broker to a wide range of companies with  
a particular focus on E&P . Steve joined the 
Company on 1 November 2011. Corporate governance
The Board of Directors support high standards of corporate 
governance and the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. As a Company that is quoted on AIM, it is not required to 
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code but all the Directors 
intend to comply with its main provisions as far as is practicable having 
regard to the size and composition of the Group.
The Board and its committees
The Board of the Company consists of three Executive Directors and 
four Non-Executive Directors; with Mr Armstrong and Mr Bryant 
being considered to be independent. The Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director is John Bryant and biographies of all the 
Directors are included within this statement.
The Board retains full and effective control over the Group. The Board 
meets regularly, at least eight times a year, to consider reports on the 
operational and financial performance of the Group and to decide on 
matters reserved unto itself, which include reviewing and approving 
the Group’s strategy, budgets, major items of capital expenditure and 
senior personnel appointments.
The Directors have established separate committees each chaired by a 
Non-Executive Director as follows:
Audit committee
The committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors; being chaired 
by Richard Armstrong and having as other members John Bryant and 
John Hamilton. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer may attend only at the invitation of the committee.
The committee receives and reviews reports from management and 
the Group’s auditors relating to the Group’s annual report and 
accounts and to interim results announcements. The committee 
focuses particularly on compliance with legal requirements, 
accounting standards and the AIM Rules and on ensuring that 
effective systems of internal financial and non-financial controls 
(including for the management of risk and whistle-blowing) are 
maintained. However, the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the annual report and accounts remains with the Board of 
Directors. The committee is also responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board of Directors on the appointment of 
the external auditors and their remuneration. The committee keeps 
under review the external auditors’ independence and considers the 
nature, scope, and results of the auditor’s work and develops policy 
on and reviews (reserving the right to approve) any non-audit services 
that are provided by the external auditors.
The committee normally meets at least three times a year and meets 
the external auditors at least annually without the presence of the 
Executive Directors.
Remuneration committee
The committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, being chaired 
by John Bryant and having as other members Richard Armstrong and 
John Hamilton. The committee, which normally meets at least twice a 
year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board of 
Directors on the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the 
Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior executives (as are 
delegated to the committee to consider) and for determining, within 
agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration packages for each of 
them, including pension rights, any compensation payments and the 
implementation of executive incentive schemes. In accordance with 
the committee’s terms of reference, no Director may participate in 
discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or 
remuneration.
Nomination committee
The Nomination committee is chaired by the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, John Bryant, and its other members are the 
Non-Executive Director, Richard Armstrong, and the Chairman, Francis 
Gugen. The committee, which meets as required throughout the year, 
has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition 
of the Board of Directors, retirements and appointments of additional 
and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations 
to the Board of Directors. The committee is also tasked with ensuring 
that plans are in place for orderly succession to the Board of Directors 
and senior management positions, so as to maintain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within the Group and the Board of 
Directors. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company is invited to 
attend meetings of the committee when the committee is discussing 
matters related to executive management and such other matters as 
the committee chairman deems appropriate.
At each Annual General Meeting at least one-third of the Directors 
shall retire from office by rotation. The Directors to retire by rotation 
shall include, firstly, any Director who wishes to retire at the meeting 
and not offer himself for re-election and, secondly, those Directors 
who have been longest in office since their last appointment or 
reappointment, provided always that each Director shall be required 
to retire and offer himself for re-election at least every three years. 
Directors appointed by the Board hold office only until the dissolution 
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company next following such 
appointment.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining the Group’s system of internal controls and reviewing its 
effectiveness. The procedures that include, inter alia, financial, 
operational, health & safety, compliance matters and risk 
management are reviewed on an ongoing basis. The internal control 
system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The Board has considered the 
need for a separate internal audit function but, bearing in mind the 
present size and composition of the Group, does not consider it 
necessary at the current time.
UK Bribery Act
IGas has reviewed the appropriate policies and procedures to ensure 
compliance with the UK Bribery Act. The Company continues actively 
to promote good practice throughout the Group and has initiated a 
rolling programme of anti-bribery and corruption training for all 
relevant employees.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are considered important by the 
Directors. The primary contact with shareholders, investors and 
analysts is the Chief Executive Officer. The other Executive Directors, 
however, regularly speak to investors and analysts during the year. 
Company circulars and press releases have also been issued 
throughout the year for the purpose of keeping investors informed 
about the Group’s progress.
The Company also maintains a website on the internet (www.igasplc.com) 
that is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about 
the Group.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
18
Corporate governance Directors’ remuneration report
This report explains our remuneration policy for Directors and sets out 
how decisions regarding Directors’ pay for the period under review 
have been taken.
Remit of the Remuneration committee
The remit of the Remuneration Committee is provided in the 
Corporate Governance section.
The committee has engaged the services of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (“PwC”) to provide wholly independent advice on executive 
compensation and to assist the committee in the implementation and 
evaluation of its long term incentive arrangements. There were no 
other services provided by PwC to the Group during the period.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s policy is to maintain levels of remuneration sufficient 
to attract, motivate and retain senior executives of the highest calibre 
who can deliver growth in shareholder value. Executive remuneration 
currently consists of basic salary, pensions, benefits, annual bonus 
(based on annually set targets), and long term incentives (to reward 
long term performance). The Company seeks to strike an appropriate 
balance between fixed and performance-related reward, therefore, 
the total remuneration package is structured so that a significant 
proportion is subject to the achievement of performance targets, 
forming a clear link between pay and performance. The performance 
targets are aligned to the key drivers of the business strategy, thereby 
creating a strong alignment of interest between executives and 
shareholders.
The committee will continue to review the Company’s remuneration 
policy and make amendments, if necessary, to ensure it remains fit for 
purpose for the Company, driving high levels of executive 
performance and remains competitive in the market.
Base salary
When setting the salary of the Directors, the committee has 
considered the following:
 – levels of salary for similar positions in similar organisations (based 
on size, complexity and sector);
 – the performance of the individual Director; and
 – the individual Director’s experience and responsibilities.
Bonus
Executives and employees are eligible to participate in a discretionary 
bonus plan. The percentage of maximum bonus entitlement received 
is based on the achievement of challenging corporate and personal 
targets. The maximum potential bonus entitlement for certain 
Directors under the plan is to up to 100% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the financial performance of 
the Company and, in recognition of the performance achieved against 
agreed targets, determined that bonuses for the period should be at 
the following levels:
 – Andrew Austin: £86,000
 – John Blaymires: £33,000
 – Stephen Bowler: £15,000
Benefits
The Company provides Executive Directors with benefits in kind, with 
a pension contribution up to 15% of base salary (as well as other less 
significant benefits in kind).
Long Term Incentives
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the long term element of the 
remuneration package as it was felt that the LTIP put in place in 
October 2010 was no longer appropriate. This review resulted in the 
introduction of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (“2011 LTIP”) to 
support the long term business strategy and drive executive 
performance. Since all of the Directors chose to waive their 
outstanding options, the 2011 LTIP is the only long term incentive that 
will be used for executives.
2011 LTIP
In November 2011, the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan 
scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP, 
participants can each be granted two types of award: an Initial Award 
and an Annual Award. Both types of award are structured as nil cost 
options. Initial Awards can be granted over up to 300% of base salary 
and, in any year, Annual Awards can be granted over up to 150% of 
base salary (subject to an overall limit applying to all employee share 
plans operated by the Company of 10% of the issued share capital of 
the Company in any ten year period). To date, only Initial Awards have 
been granted under the 2011 LTIP. The Initial Awards granted to 
Directors (see table below) were granted as a retention tool and to 
ensure that the Directors have a significant performance-related 
element to their reward package, following the review of incentives 
referred to above.
The 2011 LTIP has a three year performance period and awards vest 
subject to share price performance exceeding the Company’s 
weighted average cost of capital of 10%. This target has been 
selected to focus the executives’ behaviour on driving company 
growth over the performance period. In addition, Annual Awards only 
vest where an agreed percentage of the participant’s net bonus has 
been used to acquire Company shares which are still held at the end 
of the vesting period. On a change of control prior to the third 
anniversary of the grant date, a proportion of the options shall vest. 
The proportion of the options that vests will be determined by the 
Remuneration Committee taking into account relevant factors such  
as the time the Option has been held by the participant and the 
performance achieved in the period from the grant date.
The Group’s share price as at 31 March 2012 was 46.5p per share.  
The highest price during the period was 84p per share and the lowest 
share price during the period was 43.5p per share.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
19 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Current arrangements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors are employed under evergreen contracts with notice periods of twelve months or less from the Company or executive.
Directors’ emoluments for the period were as follows:
Current 
annual  
salary/fees
£000
15 months ended 31 March 2012
Year ended 31 
December 2010
Executive Directors
Salary/Fees
£000
Bonus
£000
Taxable 
Beneﬁts
£000
Pensions
£000
Total
£000
Total
£000
F Gugen – Executive Chairman  
(to 19 October 2010) –––––– 83
A Austin – Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 260 325 86 4 49 464 353
B Cheshire – Executive Technical Director
 (resigned 20 June 2011) –50 – – – 50 125
S Bowler – CFO  
(Appointed 01 November 2011) 200 83 15 – 13 111 –
J Blaymires – COO  
(Appointed 19 October 2010) 200 250 33 4 37 324 39
Total – Executive Directors 660 708 134 8 99 949 600
Non-Executive Directors
Emoluments
£000
Other 
Consultancy 
Services
£000
Taxable 
Beneﬁts
£000
Pensions
£000
Total
£000
Total
£000
F Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman (from 
19 October 2010) 80 100* – – – 100 17
J Bryant – Senior Independent 45 56* 35** – – 91 35
R Armstrong 35 44 35** – – 79 35
J Hamilton 35 64* – – – 64 35
Total – Non-Executive Directors 195 264 70 – – 334 122
* Part of these emoluments are paid to companies that provide the services
** Payments were made as a consequence of the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited
Each of the Executive Directors devotes such time as is required to discharge his duties, which in the case of A Austin, J Blaymires and S Bowler 
is full time.
Each Executive Director is entitled to receive a cash bonus dependent on the achievement of various objective targets and milestones as set by 
the Remuneration Committee.
As at 31 March 2012, the outstanding long term incentives held by the Directors who served during the period are as set out in the table below:
Long term incentive arrangements
Date of  
Grant
At  
1 January  
2011 Granted Exercised Waived
As at  
31 March  
2012
Earliest  
vesting  
date
Lapse  
date
A Austin 19.10.10 700,000 – – (700,000) – – –
21.11.11 – 1,029,702 – – 1,029,702 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
J Blaymires 19.10.10 375,000 – – (375,000) – – –
19.10.10 910,930 – – (910,930) – – –
21.11.11 – 681,743 – – 681,743 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
S Bowler 21.11.11 – 396,040 – – 396,040 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are employed under evergreen contracts with notice periods of three months, under which they are not entitled to 
any pension, benefits or bonuses.
John Bryant
Chairman Remuneration Committee
29 June 2012
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
20
Corporate governance Directors’ report
The Directors present their report together with the Group and Parent Company financial statements for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012.
Business review and future developments
A review of the business and the future developments of the Group are presented in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s statement 
and the Chief Financial Officer’s review.
Results and dividends
The Group’s profit for the period after taxation but before costs of marking oil price, interest rate derivatives and warrants to market and 
acquisition costs was £2.6 million. After adjusting for these items amounting to £20.5 million the total loss for the period was £17.9 million 
(2010: loss £1.5 million). The Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend.
Going Concern
The Directors consider that, having taken into consideration the factors set out in note 1(a) in the financial statements, the expected operating 
cash flows of the group combined with the current borrowing facilities give them confidence that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue as a going concern. The financial statements have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis.
Principal activity
The Group’s principal area of activity is exploring for, appraising, developing and producing oil and gas resources in Great Britain.
Share Capital
Details of changes to share capital in the period are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year were as follows:
F R Gugen Non-Executive Chairman
A P Austin Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
J M Blaymires Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
S D Bowler Chief Financial Ofﬁcer – Appointed 1 November 2011
B Cheshire Executive Technical Director – Resigned 20 June 2011
J Bryant Non-Executive
R J Armstrong Non-Executive
J A Hamilton Non-Executive
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 March 2012 were as follows:
31 March 2012  
Ordinary 50p Shares
31 December 2010  
Ordinary 50p Shares
Number % Number %
F R Gugen 27,615,764 17.03 27,615,764 29.66
A P Austin 10,659,253 6.57 11,429,253 12.28
J M Blaymires 20,000 0.01 0 0.00
S D Bowler 40,000 0.02 0 0.00
J Bryant 57,870 0.04 50,370 0.05
R J Armstrong 65,960 0.04 58,460 0.06
J A Hamilton 85,000* 0.05 85,000 0.09
Former Directors ** – 11,429,253 12.28
* J Hamilton is beneficially interested in 85,000 Ordinary Shares out of a total of 14,454,135 held by Peter Levine and Levine Capital Management Ltd, the latter of whom he is deemed 
to be associated with for these purposes.
** Former Directors was in relation to B Cheshire who still held the same shares as at 31 March 2012 but these were not reported as he is no longer a Director.
Rotation and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Articles of Association F Gugen retires by rotation and being eligible offers himself for re-election. S D Bowler was 
appointed by the Board during the period and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, offers himself for re-election.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
21 Directors’ report continued
Directors’ insurance and indemnity provisions
Subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006, the Company has arranged appropriate directors and officers Insurance to 
indemnify the directors and officers against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties. Such provision remains in force at the 
date of this report.
The Company indemnifies the Directors against actions they undertake or fail to undertake as Directors or officers of any Group company, to 
the extent permissible for such indemnities to meet the test of a qualifying third party indemnity provision as provided for by the Companies Act 
2006. The nature and extent of the indemnities is as described in Section 60 of the Company’s Articles of Association as adopted on 7 June 
2010. These provisions remained in force throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholders
At 28 June 2012, in addition to the Directors’ interests as set out above, the Company had received notification from the following institutions 
of interests in excess of 3% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights:
Number of 
Shares %
Nexen Petroleum UK Limited 39,714,290 24.77
Peter Levine and Levine Capital Management Ltd 14,454,135 8.91
Baillie Gifford & Co 8,088,217 4.99
Artemis Investment Management LLP 5,298,333 3.27
Principal risks and uncertainties
 – The Group is exposed to market price risk through variations in the wholesale price of oil in the context of the production from oil fields it 
now owns and operates. The Group has entered into a series of oil price swaps until 31 December 2017 which have fixed the price of 
1,023,829 barrels of oil at an average Brent price of $93.40 per barrel and a further 1,251,344 barrels at an average Brent price of £58.80 
per barrel. The Board will continue to monitor the benefit of such contracts.
 – The Group is also exposed to market price risk through variations in the wholesale price of gas and electricity in the context of its future 
unconventional production volumes. Currently the Group has not entered into any forward contracts to fix the prices of these commodities. 
The Board will continue to monitor the benefit of entering into such contracts at the appropriate time
 – The Group is exposed to exchange rate risk through both its major source of revenue and its major borrowings being priced in US dollars. 
The UK pound sterling oil price swaps have been taken out in order to mitigate this risk as it affects the need to fund operating costs fixed in 
UK pound sterling.
 – The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowings. This has been mitigated by entering into a series of interest rate swaps to 
fix the price of 50% of the group’s borrowings.
 – The Group is exposed, through its operations, to liquidity risk, which is managed by the Board who regularly review the Group’s cash 
forecasts and the adequacy of available facilities to meet the Group’s cash requirements.
 – The Group is exposed to risks associated with geological uncertainty. No guarantee can be given that oil or gas can be produced in the 
anticipated quantities from any or all of the Group’s assets or that oil or gas can be delivered economically. The Group considers that such 
risks are mitigated given its assets are located in established oil and gas producing areas coupled with the extensive expertise and experience 
of its operating staff.
 – The Group is exposed to planning, environmental, licensing and other permitting risks associated with its operations and, in particular, with 
drilling and production operations. The Group considers that such risks are mitigated through compliance with regulations and the expertise 
and experience of its operating team.
 – The Group is exposed to capital risk resulting from its capital structure. However, the capital structure is continually monitored to ensure it is 
in line with the business needs and ongoing asset development. Further details of the Group’s capital management policy are disclosed in 
note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
 – The Group is also exposed to a variety of other risks including those related to:
 – operational matters (including cost increases, availability of equipment and successful project execution);
 – competition;
 – key personnel; and
 – litigation.
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash balances, borrowings, derivative instruments and other debtors and creditors that 
arise through the normal course of business as set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s financial risk 
management objectives are set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and the Operational review.
Employment policy
It is the policy of the Group to operate a fair employment policy. No employee or job applicant is less favourably treated than another on the 
grounds of their sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, colour or disability and all 
appointments and promotions are determined solely on merit. The Directors encourage employees to be aware of all issues affecting the Group 
and place considerable emphasis on employees sharing in its success.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
22
Corporate governance Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s normal practice to agree payment terms with its suppliers and abide by such terms. Payment becomes due when it can be 
confirmed that goods and/or services have been provided in accordance with the relevant contractual conditions. The amount owed by the 
Company to trade creditors at the end of the financial year represented 44 days of daily purchases for the Company (2010: 15 days).
Charitable and political contributions
During the period, the Group made charitable donations of £600 to local causes (2010: £nil). There were no political donations during the 
period (2010: £nil)
Status
The Company is not a close company as defined in the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company is domiciled in the UK and incorporated and registered in England.
Board committees
Information on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees is included in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting at a fee to be agreed in due course by 
the Audit Committee and the Board.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors
So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information 
needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report, of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each 
Director has taken all the steps that a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Mofo Secretaries Limited
Secretary
IGas Energy plc
Registered Office:
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AJ
Registered in the United Kingdom number: 04981279
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
23 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the  
Group ﬁnancial statements and Annual Report
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, 
the directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under Company Law the 
directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the Group financial statements the directors are required to:
 – present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group;
 – select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply 
them consistently;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 – make judgements that are reasonable;
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group‘s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 – state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group‘s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are also responsible for 
preparing the Directors‘ Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
24
Corporate governance Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
IGas Energy Plc
We have audited the group financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of its loss for the 15 months then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012.
Daniel Trotman
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
29 June 2012
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
25 Consolidated income statement
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
Notes
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010
£000
Revenue 2 22,120 656
Cost of sales:
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation (3,203) –
Other costs of sales (8,838) (589)
Total cost of sales (12,041) (589)
Gross proﬁt 10,079 67
Administrative costs (4,998) (1,780)
Costs relating to the acquisition of Star Energy Group Ltd (2,986) –
Other income 235 –
Loss on oil price swaps (18,512) –
Operating loss 3 (16,182) (1,713)
Finance income 6 2,374 170
Finance costs 6 (4,089) –
Net ﬁnance (costs)/income (1,715) 170
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (17,897) (1,543)
Income tax credit 5,773 –
Loss from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the Group (12,124) (1,543)
Basic and diluted (loss) per share (pence/share) 8 (8.14p) (1.69p)
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence/share) 8 5.6p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence/share) 8 5.4p
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
26
Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Loss for the period (12,124) (1,543)
Other comprehensive income for the period – –
Total comprehensive loss for the period (12,124) (1,543)
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
27 Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2012
Notes
31 March 
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets 11 57,237 4,644
Property, plant and equipment 12 106,243 205
Goodwill 10 15,599 –
179,079 4,849
Current assets
Inventories 14 716 –
Trade and other receivables 15 12,113 589
Cash and cash equivalents 16 7,915 12,087
20,744 12,676
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (10,480) (797)
Current tax liabilities 7 (3,561) –
Finance lease liability 22 (51) –
Borrowings 18 (16,475) –
Other liabilities 19 (2,806) –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 (8,713) –
(42,086) (797)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (21,342) 11,879
Total assets less current liabilities 157,737 16,728
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (58,477) –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 (7,979) –
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (23,231) –
Provisions 20 (13,092) –
(102,779) –
Net assets 54,958 16,728
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 24 54,213 19,665
Share premium account 25 18,036 2,500
Other reserves 26 (1,140) (1,236)
Retained earnings/(accumulated deﬁcit) (16,151) (4,201)
Shareholders’ funds 54,958 16,728
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 29 June 2012 and are signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Austin Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
28
Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
Called up  
share capital  
(Note 24)
£000
Share  
premium 
account
£000
Other  
reserves
£000
Retained 
earnings 
(accumulated 
deﬁcit)
£000
Total
£000
Balance at 1 January 2010 18,617 2,203 131 (2,789) 18,162
Changes in equity for 2010
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – (1,543) (1,543)
Lapse of warrants – – (131) 131 –
Employee share plans cost under IFRS (note 26) – – 63 – 63
Issue of shares during the year 1,048 297 (1,299) – 46
Balance at 31 December 2010 19,665 2,500 (1,236) (4,201) 16,728
Changes in equity for 2011
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – (12,124) (12,124)
Capital contribution 47 47
Employee share plans cost under IFRS2 (note 26) – – 49 174 223
Issue of shares during the period 34,548 15,536 – – 50,084
Balance at 31 March 2012 54,213 18,036 (1,140) (16,151) 54,958
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
29 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
Notes
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010
£000
Operating activities:
Loss before tax for the period/year (17,897) (1,543)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 3 3,354 9
Unwinding of discount of decommissioning 197 –
Share-based payment charge 1,117 37
Loss on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16,160 –
Finance income 6 (2,374) (170)
Finance costs 6 4,089 –
Increase in trade and other receivables (3,866) (331)
Increase in trade and other payables, net of accruals related to investing activities (1,025) 196
Increase in inventories (34) –
Impairment of E&E assets 42 –
Abandonment costs incurred (18) –
Revaluation 3 –
Taxation paid (2,340) –
Net cash used in operating activities (2,592) (1,802)
Investing activities
Acquisition of exploration and evaluation assets (17,880) (3,608)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (653) (220)
Acquisition of Star Energy Group Ltd 9 (79,630) –
Interest received 336 170
Net cash used in investing activities (97,827) (3,658)
Financing activities
Cash proceeds from issue of Ordinary Share Capital 24 19,944 46
Capital contribution 26 47 –
Interest paid 6 (2,143) –
Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings 84,569 –
Loan issue costs (3,141) –
Repayment of loans and borrowings (3,100) –
Repayment of ﬁnance lease/hire purchase agreement (21) –
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 96,155 46
Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period/year (4,264) (5,414)
Net foreign exchange difference 92 –
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period/year 12,087 17,501
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period/year 16 7,915 12,087
* There was a significant non-cash transaction relating to the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited. Consideration consisted of 39,714,290 new ordinary shares of 50p, further 
details can be found in note 9.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
30
Financial statements Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes
As at 31 March 2012
1 Accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of IGas Energy plc (the “Company”) and subsidiaries (the “Group”) have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, adopted for use by the European Union (“IFRSs”) as 
they apply to the Group for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012 and with the Companies Act 2006. The accounting periods are not 
comparable with the prior year as this 15 month period represents a long period of account to align the year end with the newly acquired entity 
Star Energy Group Limited. The accounts were approved by the board and authorised for issue on 29 June 2012. IGas Energy plc is a public 
limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements are presented in UK pound sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
During the period, the Group adopted the following new and amended IFRS which were applicable to the Group’s activities as of 1 January 2011.
Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IAS 24 Amendment to IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures – This amendment clarifies the definition of a related 
party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its 
application. The revised standard introduces a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for 
government-related entities. The Group has considered the effect of this interpretation and has 
concluded that there is no impact on the financial statements
1 January 2011
New and amended standards and interpretations
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except for the following new and amended IFRS and 
IFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2011.
 – IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
 – IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
 – IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement
These amendments have no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory only for the Group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2012 or later periods and which the Group has not adopted early. Those that may be 
applicable to the Group in future are as follows:
Effective date*
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Financial Statement Presentation – This amendment changes the grouping of 
items presented in the Other Comprehensive Income. Items that could be reclassified to profit and loss 
at a future point in time (for example, upon de-recognition or settlement) would be presented 
separately from items which will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only and 
therefore will have no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance.
1 July 2012
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement – IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase 
of the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of 
financial assets as defined in IAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
January 2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial 
liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an 
effect on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets. The Group will quantify 
the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
1 January 2015
IFRS 7/IAS 32 IFRS 7/IAS 32 -The amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 on offsetting of financial instruments are intended 
to clarify existing application issues relating to the offsetting rules and reduce the level of diversity in 
current practice. The clarifying amendments to IAS 32 are effective for the annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2014. The new disclosures in IFRS 7 are required for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2013. The Group is currently assessing the impact that these amendments will have on 
the financial position.
1 January 2013  
1 January 2014
IFRS 10 IFRS10 – replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses 
the accounting for consolidated financial statements. It also includes the issues raised in SIC -12 
Consolidation —Special Purpose Entities. IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all 
entities including special purpose entities. The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management 
to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required 
to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
1 January 2013
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
31 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
IFRS 11 IFRS11 – Joint Arrangements – IFRS11 establishes principle of the financial reporting by parties to a joint 
arrangement. IFRS 11 supersedes IAS31. It removes the option for jointly controlled entities (JCE) using 
proportionate consolidation.
1 January 2013
IFRS 12 IFRS12 – Disclosures of involvement with other entities – IFRS12 combines, enhances and replaces the 
disclosure requirement for subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and in consolidated structured 
entities.
1 January 2013
IFRS 13 IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement – IFRS13 defines fair value, setting out in a single IFRS a framework 
for measuring fair value and requires disclosure about fair value measurements. IFRS 13 applies when 
other IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements. It does not introduce any new requirements to 
measure an asset or liability at fair value, change what is measured at fair value in IFRS or address how 
to present changes in fair value.
1 January 2013
IAS 28 IAS28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Venture- IAS28 has been renamed as a consequence of the 
new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 and describes the application of the method to investments in joint venture in 
addition to associates.
1 January 2013
IAS 27 Revised IAS 27 Revised – Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. The objective of the Standard is to 
prescribe the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
1 January 2013
* The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards and interpretations. As the group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union (EU), the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU endorsement 
mechanism. In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the 
group‘s discretion to early adopt standards.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will either individually or collectively have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application. The Group does not anticipate adopting these standards and 
interpretations ahead of their effective date.
(b) Going concern
The Group’s principal activity and principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Directors’ report. The ability of the Group to operate as a 
going concern is dependent upon the continued availability of bank funding, which in turn is dependent on the Group not breaching covenants, 
without cure or formal waiver from its bankers. Under its bank facilities the Group drew down $135 million of committed funds in connection 
with the acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited, which is repayable in tranches over the period of a five year term until December 2016. The 
Group regularly monitors forecasts to determine that breaches are not anticipated to occur in the future. On the basis of the Group’s current 
forecasts, no breaches in covenants are anticipated. However these forecasts are based on certain assumptions particularly in relation to oil 
prices, production rates, operating costs, capital and general expenditure. The Group is protected to a material degree against volatility in the oil 
price, by having a significant proportion of its production hedged at above $90 per barrel. Despite this, there can be no certainty that these 
forecasts will be achieved, in which case the financial covenants could be breached. Should any breach be anticipated to arise, the Group would 
manage its working capital profile, reduce discretionary expenditure, where necessary and, if applicable, take additional mitigating actions that 
have already been identified as a precautionary measure. The Directors consider that the expected operating cash flows of the group combined 
with the current borrowing facilities give them confidence that the Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern. The financial 
statements have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis.
(c) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements present the results of IGas Energy plc and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of consolidated financial statements are based on consistent accounting policies to the 
parent. All intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in 
full. Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, it is treated as an extension of the entity.
At 31 March 2012 the Group comprised the Company and entities controlled by IGas Energy plc (its subsidiaries) made up to the reporting 
period at this date. The results of subsidiaries acquired during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date that 
control passed to the Company.
(d) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 
3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, 
being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement. Acquisition 
costs are expensed and shown as a separate line in the Income Statement.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
32
Financial statements (e) Interest in associates
An associate is an entity in which the Group has a long-term equity interest and over which it has significant influence, but not control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decision of the investee. Significant influence can change if, for example, the entity goes into 
administration or liquidation.
This results in assets and liabilities of associates being incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
Interests in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of 
the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Where the Group’s share of any retained loss in an associate exceeds 
its investment, the Group’s investment is capped at zero. Should the associate subsequently report profits, the Group resumes recognising its 
share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised. The Group’s Income Statement reflects the 
share of the associate’s results after tax. Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant associate.
(f) Joint ventures
A small proportion of the Group’s licence interests are held jointly with others under arrangements whereby unincorporated and jointly 
controlled ventures are used to explore, evaluate and ultimately develop and produce from its oil and gas interests. Accordingly, the Group 
accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of these jointly controlled assets, classified in the appropriate balance sheet 
and income statement headings, except where its share of such amounts remain the responsibility of another party in accordance with the 
terms of the carried interests as described at (j) below. Where the Group enters into a farm-up agreement involving a licence in the exploration 
and evaluation phase, the Group records all costs that it incurs under the terms of the joint operating agreement as amended by the farm-up 
agreement as they are incurred.
(g) Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the 
consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and assumptions 
are continuously evaluated and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual outcomes can differ from these estimates.
In particular, the Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required, and where if 
actual results were to differ, this could materially affect the financial position or financial results reported in future periods. Further information 
on each of these and how they impact the various accounting policies are described in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets
The Group has capitalised intangible exploration and evaluation assets in accordance with IFRS 6, which are evaluated for impairment as 
described at (j) below. Any impairment review, where required, involves estimates and assumptions related to matters (when appropriate), such 
as recoverable reserves, production profiles, review of forward oil, gas and electricity prices, development, operating and off-take costs, nature 
of land access agreements and planning permissions, application of taxes and other matters. Where the final outcome or revised estimates 
related to such matters differ from the estimates used in any earlier impairment reviews, the results of such differences, to the extent that they 
actually affect any impairment provisions, are accounted for when such revisions are made. Details of the Groups Intangible exploration and 
evaluation assets are disclosed in note 11.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment
Management reviews the Group’s property, plant and equipment periodically for impairment indicators. The determination of recoverable 
amounts in any impairment test requires judgement around key assumptions. Key assumptions in the impairment models include those related 
to prices, that are based on forward curves and long-term corporate assumptions thereafter, discount rates, that are risked to reflect conditions 
specific to individual assets, future costs, both capital and operating, that are based on management’s estimates having regard to past 
experience and the known characteristics of the individual assets and production and reserves, discussed further below.
Proved and probable reserves
The volume of proven and probable oil and gas reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of producing gas and oil 
property, plant and equipment as well as being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning provisions and impairment calculations. Proved 
and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques. Estimates are reviewed at least annually and are regularly 
estimated by independent consultants. Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to 
produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Decommissioning costs
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based on proven and probable 
reserves, forecast price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. Provision is made for the estimated cost at the balance sheet date, using 
discounted cash flow methodology and a risk free rate of return.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
33 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Business combinations
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed by reference to the contractual terms, 
economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. Those petroleum reserves and resources that can be reliably 
measured are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition by reference to independent assessments of reserves and discounted 
cash flow models to reflect the revenues and expenditures related to the extraction of those reserves. Other assets and liabilities are valued by 
reference to market-based observations or independent valuations where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is 
required in establishing fair values.
Functional currency
The determination of functional currency often requires significant judgement where the primary economic environment in which a company 
operates may not be clear. This can have a significant impact on the consolidated results of the Group based on the foreign currency translation 
methods used.
(h) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require 
separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year. A full 
explanation of such items is given, where applicable, in the notes to the financial statements
(i) Revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services supplied by the Group, net of value added tax and trade discounts. Revenue is 
recognised in the case of oil, gas and electricity sales when goods are delivered and title has passed to the customer. This generally occurs when 
the product is physically delivered to the customer’s premises or transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue from the production of oil, in which the Group has an interest with other producers, is recognised based on the Group’s working 
interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts. Where oil produced by third parties is processed and delivered to a refinery 
by the Group, the measurement of the revenue depends upon whether physical title to the oil passes to the Group or whether the Group simply 
acts an agent for the producer.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised only once a legally binding contract is in place. Amounts billed for services where the contract 
provides for their delivery over a period of time are recognised evenly over the relevant period; amounts due for all other services are recognised 
as the services are provided.
(j) Non-current assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised over the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. 
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to 
goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
The Group accounts for exploration and evaluation costs in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 6 “Exploration for and Evaluation of 
Mineral Resources” as follows:
 – Exploration and evaluation assets are carried at cost less any impairment and are not depreciated or amortised.
 – Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets comprise those related to acquisition of rights to explore, topographical, 
geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling (including coring and sampling), activities in relation to evaluating the 
technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting hydrocarbons (including appraisal drilling and production tests) and any land rights 
acquired for the sole purpose of effecting these activities. These costs include employee remuneration, materials and consumables, 
equipment costs and payments made to contractors.
 – Any costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. Expenditures 
related to development and production activities are not recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.
 – Tangible assets acquired for use in exploration and evaluation activities are classified as property, plant and equipment. However, to the 
extent that such tangible assets are consumed in developing an intangible exploration and evaluation asset, the amount reflecting that 
consumption is recorded as part of the exploration and evaluation asset.
 – Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are initially accumulated and capitalised by reference to appropriate geographic areas.
 – Expenditure recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to property plant and equipment, interests in oil and gas properties 
when technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting hydrocarbons is demonstrable. Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed 
for impairment (on the basis described below), and any impairment loss recognised, before reclassification.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
34
Financial statements Property plant and equipment – interests in oil and gas properties
Property plant and equipment, interests in oil and gas properties are accounted for as follows:
 – Expenditure relating to interests in oil and gas properties includes both expenditure which is depleted on a unit-of-production basis, 
commencing at the start of commercial production and expenditure which is depreciated on a straight line basis over the relevant asset’s 
estimated useful life. Where expenditure is depreciated on a unit of production basis, the depletion charge is calculated according to the 
proportion that production bears to the recoverable reserves for each property.
 – The Group’s interests in oil and gas properties are assessed for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, when impairment is computed on the basis as set out below. Any 
impairment in value is charged to the Income Statement as additional depreciation.
 – Net proceeds from any disposal of development/producing assets are compared to the previously capitalised costs for the relevant asset or 
group of assets. A gain or loss on disposal of a development/producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the 
net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset or group of assets.
Impairment
Impairment reviews, when required as described above, are carried out on the following basis:
 – By comparing the sum of any amounts carried in the books as compared to the recoverable amount.
 – The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The Group generally relies on fair value less 
cost to sell assessed either by reference to comparable market transactions between a willing buyer and a willing seller or on the same basis 
as used by willing buyers and sellers in the oil and gas industry. When assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset or CGU.
 – Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a 
change in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment 
losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value and the carrying value that would have 
been determined (net of depletion) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Decommissioning
Where a liability for the removal of production facilities or site restoration exists, a provision for decommissioning is recognised. The amount 
recognised is discounted to its present value and is reflected in the Group’s non-current liabilities. A corresponding asset is included in the 
appropriate category of the Group’s non-current assets (intangible exploration and evaluation assets and property plant and equipment), 
depending on the accounting treatment adopted for the underlying operations/asset leading to the decommissioning provision. The asset is 
assessed for impairment and or depleted in accordance with the Group’s policies as set out above.
Carried interests
Where the Group has entered into carried interest agreements in exploration and evaluation projects and the Group’s interest is being carried 
by a third party, no amounts are recorded in the financial statements where expenditure incurred under such agreements is not refundable. 
Where expenditure is refundable, out of what would but for the carry agreements have been the Group’s share of production, the Group 
records amounts as non-current assets, with a corresponding offset in current liabilities or non-current liabilities, as appropriate, but only once it 
is apparent that it is more likely than not that future production will be adequate to result in a refund under the terms of any carry agreement; 
the Group records refunds only to the extent that they are expected to be repayable.
Other property plant and equipment
Other property plant and equipment is stated at cost to the Group less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on such assets, with 
exception of freehold land at rates calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, over their estimated useful 
lives at the following rates, with any impairment being accounted for as additional depreciation:
Equipment used for exploration and evaluation – between six and twelve years on a straight line basis
Freehold Land – indefinite useful life
Buildings/leasehold property improvements – over five to ten years on a straight line basis/over the period of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – between three and twenty years on a straight line basis
Motor Vehicles – over four years on a straight line basis
The Group does not capitalise amounts considered to be immaterial.
(k) Financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and cash held on current account or on short-term deposits at variable interest rates with 
original maturity periods of up to three months. Any interest earned is accrued monthly and classified as interest income within finance income.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value when related amounts are invoiced, then carried at this amount less any allowances for 
doubtful debts or provision made for impairment of these receivables.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
35 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Trade and other payables
These financial liabilities are all non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration payable.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group has entered into swaps to manage its exposure to variability in the price and foreign exchange rate of a proportion of its newly 
acquired crude oil production for the next six years and its exposure to interest rates in respect of a proportion of its debt.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each period end. Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging instruments, all 
changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise, otherwise they are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an 
arm’s length transaction. It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred 
in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of 
cash flows. The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been calculated on a discounted cash flow basis by reference to forward market 
prices and risk free returns adjusted in the case of derivative financial liabilities by an appropriate credit spread.
Impairment of financial assets
In relation to financial assets, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or 
significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the 
invoice. The carrying amount of receivables is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are 
assessed as uncollectible.
(l) Borrowings
Borrowings are measured initially at fair value. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are 
derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. 
The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts, such as warrants attached to loans, are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value 
if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or 
designated at fair value though profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in 
the Income Statement.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a 
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of these assets, until such time as the assets are 
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from 
the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(m) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including 
whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Operating leases
Rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases
Assets under finance leases are included under tangible fixed assets at their capital value and depreciated over their useful lives. Capital value is 
defined as the amount equal to the fair value of the leased property or, if lower the present value of the minimum lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. Lease payments consist of capital and finance charge elements; the finance charge element is charged 
to the income statement.
(n) Inventories
Inventories, consisting of crude oil, drilling materials and maintenance materials, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs 
comprise all costs of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
Weighted average cost is used to determine the cost of ordinarily inter-changeable items.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
36
Financial statements (o) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the 
tax authorities. Taxable (loss)/profit differs from the (loss)/profit before taxation as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. Temporary 
differences arise from differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as 
more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at 
each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the assets is realised or the liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
(p) Share-based payments
Where share options or warrants are awarded to employees (including Directors), the fair value of the options or warrants at the date of the 
grant is recorded in equity over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions, but only those related to service and performance, are taken 
into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative 
amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. All other vesting conditions, including 
market vesting conditions, are factored in to the fair value of the options or warrants granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are 
satisfied, the amount recorded is computed irrespective of whether the Market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative amount 
recognised is not adjusted for the failure to achieve a Market vesting condition; although equity no longer required for options or warrants may 
be transferred to another equity reserve.
Where the terms and conditions of options or warrants are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured 
immediately before and after the modification, is also recorded in equity over the remaining vesting period.
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised or the 
award is recognised immediately.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the amount recognised in equity is the fair value of goods and 
services received.
Charges corresponding to the amounts recognised in equity are accounted for as a cost against profit and loss unless the services rendered 
qualify for capitalisation as a non-current asset. Costs may be capitalised within non-current assets in the event of services being rendered in 
connection with an acquisition of intangible exploration and evaluation assets or property, plant and equipment.
Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, the value of such shares at issue will be 
recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way, but will not affect shareholders’ funds since this same value will be 
shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds by way of a separate component of equity.
(q) Post-retirement benefits
A subsidiary within the Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the 
Group in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the income statement represents the contributions payable to the 
scheme in respect of the accounting period.
(r) Equity
Equity instruments issued by the Company are usually recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and allocated between called 
up share capital and share premium accounts as appropriate.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
37 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
(s) Foreign currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK pound sterling, which is the parent company’s and its subsidiaries’ functional 
currency. The Group does not have any foreign operations. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are 
translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
2 Revenue and segment information
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed 
by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its 
performance, and for which financial information is available. In the case of the Group the CODM are the Chief Executive Officer and the Board 
of Directors and all information reported to the CODM is based on the consolidated results of the Group as one operating segment as the 
Group’s activities relate to UK oil and gas. Therefore the Group has one operating and reportable segment as reflected in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.
All revenue which represents turnover arises within the United Kingdom and relates to external parties. £21.9 million of the Group’s revenue 
was derived from two customers (2010: £0.6 million).
All the Group’s non-current assets are in the United Kingdom.
3 Operating loss
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Operating loss is stated after charging:
Staff Costs (see note 4) 3,956 1,123
Depletion and Depreciation 3,354 9
Impairment of intangible assets 42 –
Auditor’s remuneration:
Audit of the ﬁnancial statements 169 57
Other fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP – Audits of subsidiaries 80 10
Other fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP – Services relating to taxation 96 –
Other fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP – Services relating to corporate ﬁnance transactions 400 –
Operating lease charges:
Land and buildings 522 –
Other 51 –
4 Employee information
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Staff costs comprised:
Wages and salaries 3,676 923
Social Security Costs 556 137
Company contribution to pension scheme 260 –
Employee share-based payment cost under IFRS 2 167 63
4,659 1,123
No. No.
Average number of employees in the period:
Operations, including services 34 4
Administrative 14 2
48 6
At 31 March 2012 the Group had 152 employees. In the 15 months to 31 March 2012 £703 thousand (2010: £39 thousand) of the Group’s 
remuneration costs has been capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
38
Financial statements 5 Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the Directors for the period was as follows:
Current 
annual  
salary/fees 
£000
15 months ended 31 March 2012
Year ended  
31 December 
2010
Executive Directors
Salary/Fees
£000
Bonus
£000
Taxable 
Beneﬁts
£000
Pensions
£000
Total
£000
Total
£000
F Gugen – Executive Chairman  
(to 19 October 2010) –––––– 83
A Austin – Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 260 325 86 4 49 464 353
B Cheshire – Executive Technical Director 
(resigned 20 June 2011) –50 – – – 50 125
S Bowler – CFO  
(Appointed 01 November 2011) 200 83 15 – 13 111 –
J Blaymires – COO  
(Appointed 19 October 2010) 200 250 33 4 37 324 39
Total – Executive Directors 660 708 134 8 99 949 600
Non-Executive Directors
Current 
annual  
salary/fees 
£000
Emoluments
£000
Other 
Consultancy 
Services
£000
Taxable 
Beneﬁts
£000
Pensions
£000
Total
£000
Total
£000
F Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman  
(from 19 October 2010) 80 100* – – – 100 17
J Bryant – Senior Independent 45 56* 35** – – 91 35
R Armstrong 35 44 35** – – 79 35
J Hamilton 35 64* – – – 64 35
Total – Non-Executive Directors 195 264 70 – – 334 122
* Part of these emoluments are paid to companies that provide the services
** Payments were made as a consequence of the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited
Directors’ share schemes/warrants
At 31 March 2012 the Executive Directors held the following awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans and the Share Option scheme as follows:
Long Term Incentive Plans
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
Number
Exercise  
price 
(p/share)
31 December 
2010  
Number
Exercise  
price 
(p/share)
A Austin 1,029,702 – 700,000 –
J Blaymires 681,743 – 375,000 –
S Bowler 396,040 – ––
Share Option Plan
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
Number
Exercise  
price 
(p/share)
31 December 
2010  
Number
Exercise  
price 
(p/share)
J Blaymires –– 910,930 70
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
39 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
6 Finance income and costs
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Finance income:
Interest on short-term deposits 373 170
Gain on fair value of warrants 1,651 –
Foreign exchange gains 350
Finance income recognised in income statement 2,374 170
Finance expense:
Finance lease charges 1 –
Interest on bank loan 3,165 –
Interest expense 3,166 –
Loss on interest rate swaps 632 –
Foreign exchange loss 94 –
Unwinding of discount on provisions 197 –
Finance expense recognised in income statement 4,089 –
7 Tax credit on loss on ordinary activities
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
UK corporation tax:
Current tax on income for the period – –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – –
Total current tax charge/(credit) – –
Deferred tax:
Current year (credit) (5,773) –
Charge/(credit) in relation to prior periods – –
Total deferred tax (credit) (5,773) –
Tax (credit) on proﬁt or loss on ordinary activities (5,773) –
Factors affecting the tax charge or (credit)
The tax assessed for the year does not reflect a credit equivalent to the loss on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax and 
supplementary charge for ring-fenced businesses in the United Kingdom of 62% (2010: 21%). A reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation 
tax rate applicable to the Group’s loss before tax to the Group’s total tax credit is as follows:
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
(Loss) on ordinary activities before tax (17,897) (1,543)
Expected tax (credit) based on proﬁt or loss on ordinary activities multiplied by the combined rate of 
corporation tax and supplementary charge in the UK of 62% (2010: 21%) (11,096) (324)
Tax effect of expenses not allowable for tax purposes 565 6
Tax effect of expenses not allowable for supplementary charge purposes 135 –
Impact of proﬁts or losses tax at different rates 2,364 –
Net increase in unrecognised losses carried forward 2,259 318
Tax (credit) on loss on ordinary activities (5,773) –
Following the acquisition of Star, the majority of the Group’s profits are now generated by “ring-fenced” businesses which attract UK corporation 
tax and supplementary charge at a combined rate of 62%, rather than the small companies rate of 21% borne by the Group in the previous year.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
40
Financial statements Tax losses
Deferred tax losses have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where directors believe it is probable that  
these assets will be recovered, giving rise to deferred tax assets. Such tax losses include £31.6 million of ring-fenced corporation tax losses and 
£29.0 million of supplementary charge losses.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of approximately £53 million (2010: 6.2 million) on which no deferred 
tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits. This may affect future tax charges 
should certain subsidiaries in the group produce taxable trading profits in future period where there is currently uncertainty of the timing of future 
taxable profits.
The movement on the deferred tax liability is shown below:
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Opening liability at beginning of period Nil
Tax charge/(credit) during the period recognised in proﬁt and loss (5,773) –
Tax charge/(credit) during the period recognised in OCI – –
Deferred tax liability arising from business combinations 29,004 –
Closing liability at end of period 23,231 –
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax liability by category of temporary difference:
31 March  
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
Accelerated capital allowances 59,285 –
Tax losses carried forward (18,031) –
Decommissioning provision (7,962) –
Unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts (10,147)
Share-based payments (40) –
Other 126 –
Deferred tax liabilities 23,231 –
In addition to the increase in the rate of supplementary charge the Government announced in the 2011 budget its intention to restrict the rate 
of relief on decommissioning expenditure for supplementary charge purposes to 20%. Draft legislation in respect of this restriction was 
published on 6 December 2011 and the change is expected to be enacted in Finance Bill 2012. The restriction in supplementary charge relief is 
therefore not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and as such, the company has accounted for deferred tax on its decommissioning 
balances at 62%. Assuming the deferred tax relating to the decommissioning balances was provided at 50%, the deferred tax liability balance 
at 31 March 2012 would be lower by £0.6 million.
8 Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the conversion 
of all the potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
Adjusted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the period, after adjusting for one-off costs relating to acquisitions and “mark to 
market” valuation adjustments which do not reflect the trading of the Group, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted adjusted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the period, after adjusting for one-off costs relating to acquisitions and 
“mark to market” valuation adjustments which do not reflect the trading of the Group, attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent 
by the diluted adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
7 Tax credit on loss on ordinary activities continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
41 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended  
31 December 
2010 
£000
Basic EPS – Ordinary Shares of 50p each (Pence) (8.14p) (1.69p)
Diluted EPS – Ordinary Shares of 50p each (Pence) (8.14p) (1.69p)
Adjusted EPS – Ordinary Shares of 50p each (Pence) 5.6p (1.69p)
Adjusted Diluted EPS – Ordinary Shares of 50p each (Pence) 5.4p –
(Loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent – £000 (12,124) (1,543)
Add back: Loss on oil price swaps 18,512 –
  Loss on interest rate swaps 632 –
  Acquisition costs 2,986 –
  Gain on revaluation of warrants (1,651) –
Adjusted proﬁt/(loss) for the year 8,355 (1,543)
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in the year – basic EPS, diluted basic EPS and adjusted EPS 148,947,106 91,070,160
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in the year – diluted adjusted EPS 154,760,053 91,070,160
There are 23,855,505 potentially dilutive warrants and options over the Ordinary Shares at 31 March 2012 (31 December 2010: 2,447,304), 
which are not included in the calculation of diluted basic earnings per share and diluted adjusted earnings per share in 2010 because they were 
anti-dilutive for the year as their conversion to Ordinary Shares would decrease the loss per share.
9 Acquisitions
Acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited
On 9 March 2011, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Nexen Exploration UK Limited (renamed IGas Exploration UK Limited) 
for consideration of £29.2 million. 39,714,290 new ordinary shares of 50p were allotted to Nexen Petroleum U.K. Limited at the market price of 
73.50p per share credited as fully paid in consideration for the company. The acquisition was made in pursuance of the Group’s strategy to 
secure operatorship and 100% ownership of all its assets.
The Group has reviewed the nature and substance of the transaction, and determined that the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited 
constituted an asset purchase, as the acquisition does not meet the definition of a business under IFRS 3. The transaction has therefore been 
accounted for as an acquisition of a collection of assets and liabilities under the standards governing each type of asset and liability. As such, 
because this is not an acquisition as defined in IFRS 3, no goodwill arises. The effect of the acquisition has had no effect on reported revenue.
The purchase consideration of £29.5 million (including expenses) has been allocated against the identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of 
their final fair values at the date of purchase:
£000
Assets
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets 29,710
Trade and other receivables 38
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (127)
Decommissioning (143)
The gross amount of trade and other receivables acquired was £38 thousand, which was also their fair value. None of the trade and other 
receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amount can be collected.
Cash transaction costs of the Nexen Exploration asset acquisition, included in cash flows from investing activities, amounted to an outflow of 
£288 thousand.
8 Earnings per share (EPS) continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
42
Financial statements Acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited
On 14 December 2011, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Star Energy Group Limited (“Star”), an unlisted oil and gas 
exploration and production company for a cash consideration of £110 million. The acquisition of Star added a portfolio of 25 UK onshore 
licences, occupying or owning 105 sites with an inventory of 247 wells (of which 85 are currently still in operation), a number of development 
and exploration opportunities and an experienced execution team.
The Group funded the acquisition by way of a $135 million debt facility from Macquarie Bank Limited; cash generated by Star and held in 
escrow prior to closing and IGas’ existing cash resources.
The Star acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination by the acquisition method of accounting with an effective date of 14 
December 2011, being the date the Group gained control of Star Group. The fair value allocation to Star’s assets and liabilities is provisional due 
to the complexity of the acquisition and due to the inherently uncertain nature of the oil and gas sector, in particular, in valuing intangible 
exploration and evaluation assets and oil and gas properties, the underlying value of freehold land on which oil wells and related processing 
equipment are currently situated, as well as an associate. The review of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired will be 
completed within 12 months of the acquisition, at the latest.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Star as at the date of acquisition were:
Provisional  
fair value 
£000
Assets
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets (Note 11) 3,775
Property, plant and equipment (Note 12) 108,739
Investment in associate –
Cash and cash equivalents 30,707
Trade and other receivables 6,809
Inventories 1,368
151,398
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (9,685)
Current tax liabilities (5,934)
Deferred tax liabilities (29,004)
Provisions (Note 20) (12,324)
(56,947)
Total identiﬁable net assets at fair value 94,451
Purchase consideration transferred* 110,050
Goodwill 15,599
* Total consideration was financed by $135 million (£84.5 million) facility with Macquarie Bank Limited and £25.5 million of cash generated by Star prior to closing that was held in 
escrow until the transaction date and existing IGas cash resources.
The fair value of contractual receivables amounts to £6.9 million. The gross value of the contractual receivables amounts to £7.5 million, with 
£0.6 million not expected to be received.
Transaction costs in respect of the Star acquisition of £3.0 million have been recognised in the Income Statement, including 1,881,188 ordinary 
50p shares for £950 thousand, representing the fair value of services provided.
From the date of acquisition, Star has contributed £22.1 million of revenue and £10.2 million towards the reduction of net loss before tax of the 
Group, excluding losses on derivative transactions of £18.5 million that were novated by IGas to Star post-acquisition. If the combination had 
taken place at 1 April 2011, revenue from continuing operations for the year would have been £69.0 million and the operating profit before tax, 
acquisition costs and losses from derivative transactions for the Group would have been £29.8 million.
The goodwill of £15.6 million is discussed further in note 10.
9 Acquisitions continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
43 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition
£000
Consideration paid for Star (included in cash flows from investing activities) (110,050)
Cash transaction costs of the Star acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (2,036)
Net cash acquired with Star (included in cash ﬂows from investing activities) 30,707
Net cash ﬂow on acquisition of Star (81,617)
Certain transactions were entered into by the Group either in the months preceding or immediately after the completion of the acquisition of Star. 
These transactions are summarised as follows:
On 16 September 2011 the Group and Petronas Energy Trading Limited (“Petronas Energy”) entered into a gas sales and marketing deed in which 
the Group will sell up to 150 bcf of gas to Petronas Energy and provide additional services. The price is set according to a formula linked to day 
ahead prices published by European Spot Gas Markets. Petronas has the exclusive right to purchase and market all commercial quantities of gas 
produced from the resource base, or properly nominated or delivered at the delivery points, until the quantity referred to has been delivered.
On 14 December 2011 the Group’s subsidiary Star Energy Weald Basin Limited (“SEW”) entered into a services agreement with Star Energy HG Gas 
Storage Limited (“Star Energy HG”) (the “Star Energy HG Services Agreement”) whereby SEW will provide certain operational and management 
services in respect of certain gas storage businesses retained by Petronas. Under the Star Energy HG Services Agreement, Star Energy HG will pay 
fees on a monthly basis related to personnel costs computed on a pro rata basis by reference to those incurred in the 12 month period prior to 
completion of the Acquisition plus 18% (subject to annual review).
On 14 December 2011 SEW and Star Energy HG entered into a services agreement (“the SEW Services Agreement”) whereby Star Energy HG 
will provide control room access to certain personnel in connection with the monitoring, operating and managing of certain oil fields transferred 
to Petronas prior to the Acquisition and/or certain office facilities to assist in carrying out those activities. SEW will pay £10,000 monthly in 
arrears for the term of the SEW Services Agreement. The term of the SEW Services Agreement is six months unless otherwise agreed between 
the parties.
On 14 December 2011 Star Energy HG Gas Storage Limited (“HGGSL”) and SEW entered into an oil sale and purchase agreement. Under this 
agreement SEW agreed to transfer its interests in a retained licence (licence number P116) and related assets to HGGSL and in return has agreed 
to purchase oil from HGGSL. The oil is in relation to production from the Humbly Grove and the Herriard fields. SEW will also arrange for the 
transportation of the oil. HGGSL warrants on an indemnity basis that the oil made available for delivery and sale is in accordance with the 
specification. Indicative volumes are to be agreed not less than one month before each following calendar year and provisions for detailing the 
quantity are provided for in the agreement. The agreement remains in force until the retained licence expires or, if earlier, then HGGSL serving 
12 months’ written notice on SEW. Payment due is in US dollars and is set by a formula linked to the price per barrel of oil.
10 Goodwill
31 March  
2012
31 December 
2010
Goodwill 15,599 –
Goodwill of £15.6 million was all generated in the period, as described in note 9 above.
Goodwill all relates to the acquisition of Star and arises principally because of the following factors:
1) the requirement to recognise deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the difference between the assigned fair values and the tax bases 
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at amounts that do not reflect fair value;
2) the intangible value of an experienced team of oil industry professionals with experience of operating in the UK onshore market;
3) the relationships and reputation developed by the acquired group with central and local government in Great Britain; and
4) the considerable potential for discovery of additional reserves of both conventional and unconventional resources in Star’s licence areas.
Impairment testing of goodwill
Goodwill from the acquisition of Star remains provisional, therefore management are not able to allocate it reliably to specific CGUs. There were 
no indicators of impairment during the period to 31 March 2012, therefore this goodwill has not yet been subject to impairment testing.
9 Acquisitions continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
44
Financial statements 11 Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
Exploration 
and evaluation 
£000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 1,334
Additions 3,310
At 31 December 2010 4,644
Additions 19,150
Acquisitions (Note 10) 33,485
At 31 March 2012 57,279
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 –
Charge for the year –
At 31 December 2010 –
Charge for the year –
Impairment 42
At 31 March 2012 42
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 4,644
At 31 March 2012 57,237
Under certain agreements which the Group had in place with Nexen Exploration U.K. Limited (“Nexen” and the “Nexen Carry Agreements”) as 
at 31 December 2010, Nexen provided 100% of the funding required for work programmes up to a gross spend of £26.5 million. On 9 March 
2011, the Group completed the acquisition of Nexen, thereby transferring the carried balance within the Group.
On 5 August 2009 and 11 December 2009 the Group entered into farm-up agreements with Nexen (the “Farm-up Agreements”), under which 
the Group had agreed to meet 100% of certain costs incurred in relation to certain licences, thereby discharging what, but for these 
agreements, would have been Nexen’s share of such licence costs. The acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Limited transferred these 
agreements within the Group.
Impairment testing of exploration and evaluation assets
Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are tested for impairment whenever facts and circumstances suggest that they may 
be impaired, which includes when a licence is approaching the end of its term and is not expected to be renewed, there are no substantive plans 
for continued exploration or evaluation of an area, the Group decides to abandon an area, or whilst development is likely to proceed in an area 
there are indications that the exploration and evaluation asset costs are unlikely to be recovered in full either by development or through sale.
During the year an impairment charge amounting to £42 thousand was made relating to expenditure on a site where no future exploration is planned.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
45 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
12 Property, plant and equipment
Equipment 
Used for 
Exploration and 
Evaluation
£000
Freehold  
land
£000
Buildings/
leasehold 
property 
improvements
£000
Oil and gas 
properties
£000
Fixtures, ﬁttings 
and equipment
£000
Motor  
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 – – – – – – –
Additions 179 – – – 21 20 220
At 31 December 2010 179 – – – 21 20 220
Additions – – – 592 72 8 672
Disposals – – – – (19) (8) (27)
Acquisitions – 2,126 539 104,275 593 1,206 108,739
At 31 March 2012 179 2,126 539 104,867 667 1,226 109,604
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 –––––––
Charge for the year 6 – – – 4 5 15
At 31 December 2010 6 – – – 4 5 15
Charge for the year 25 – 336 2,756 139 98 3,354
Disposals – – – (8) (8)
At 31 March 2012 31 – 336 2,756 143 95 3,361
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 173 – – – 17 15 205
At 31 March 2012 148 2,126 203 102,111 524 1,131 106,243
Included in the total net book value of fixed assets is £210 thousand (2010: £nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases and similar hire 
purchase contracts. Depreciation for the period on these assets was £12 thousand (2010: £nil).
Under the terms of the facility agreement, Macquarie Bank Limited has a fixed and floating charge over all these assets.
13 Investment in associate
Associate
Details of the Groups associate as at 31 March 2012 are as follows:
Associate Country of incorporation Principal activity Class and percentage of shares held
Larchford Limited United Kingdom Oil rig contractor 33% Ordinary shares of £1 each
Larchford (in which a 33% interest was acquired as part of the acquisition of Star) was already in significant financial difficulties at the time that 
the Group purchased Star, and the company went into liquidation on March 6, 2012. As a result, the Group has ceased to have any significant 
influence over the company and the investment has a nil value both on acquisition and at 31 March 2012. Receivables due from Larchford are 
included in note 15.
14 Inventories
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Oil Stock 429 –
Drilling materials 42 –
Maintenance materials 245 –
716 –
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
46
Financial statements 15 Trade and other receivables
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
VAT recoverable 1,454 375
Trade debtors 8,656 61
Accrued income – 73
Other debtors 220 –
Amount due from Larchford 252 –
Prepayments 1,531 80
12,113 589
Of the Group’s financial assets as stated above £878 thousand (2010: £61 thousand) were past due at the reporting date, and an impairment 
provision of £626 thousand has been provided against those amounts (2010: £nil). The ageing of the financial assets (trade debtors, other 
debtors and amounts due from associate) is as follows:
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Not yet due 8,876 –
Overdue by not more than three months – 61
More than three months but not more than six months – –
More than six months but not more than one year 252 –
9,128 61
16 Cash and cash equivalents
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 7,915 12,087
7,915 12,087
The carrying value of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The Group only deposits cash surpluses with major banks that have acceptable credit ratings of “A” or better, with the exception of banks 
where the UK government is the major shareholder.
17 Current liabilities
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 3,509 240
Employment related taxation 717 42
Accruals and other creditors 6,254 515
10,480 797
The carrying value of each of the Group’s financial liabilities is considered to be a reasonable approximation of its fair value. All creditors are 
payable within one month and no creditors have been outstanding for longer than three months (2010: all within one month).
18 Borrowings
31 March 2012 31 December 2010
Within  
1 year 
£000
Greater  
than 1 year
£000
Total
£000
Within  
1 year
£000
Greater  
than 1 year
£000
Total
£000
Facility A* 16,475 32,818 49,293 –––
Facility B* – 25,659 25,659 –––
16,475 58,477 74,952 –––
* Transaction costs of raising debt of £7.6 million have been netted off against the liability
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
47 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
On 21 November 2011 the Company and Macquarie entered into a senior secured facility agreement (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit 
Agreement consists of three separate facilities:
(i) $90,000,000 5 year senior secured term loan, carrying interest at 5.5% over LIBOR and a 2% commitment fee;
(ii) $45,000,000 5 year senior secured term loan, carrying interest at 12% above LIBOR and a commitment fee of 3.5%; and
(iii) Up to $ 15,000,000 uncommitted working capital facility, which may be made available at the discretion of Macquarie (remained undrawn 
at 31 March 2012).
The Credit Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for a credit facility of this nature. Such covenants 
include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance of financial ratios and certain 
restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, incurrence of financial indebtedness and 
on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default, the 
occurrence of which allow Macquarie (and any other lender that accedes to the Credit Agreement) to accelerate outstanding loans and 
terminate the commitments. The facilities are required to be repaid in full on the date that is 60 months following the completion of the 
Acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited, or on a change of control and the sale of the assets of the Group.
The Group’s financing under the Credit Agreement is denominated in US dollars.
19 Other liabilities
15 months 
ending  
31 March  
2012
£000
At 1 January 2011 –
Warrants issued during period 4,457
Revaluation (1,651)
At 31 March 2012 2,806
Warrants issued to Macquarie Bank under the Facilities Agreement can be exercised in four different ways and, although the cost to the 
Company would be the same under each exercise option, these warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS39 due to the variable 
number of shares that would be issued in each case. Accordingly they have been accounted for as financial liabilities.
All warrants vested on grant and accordingly the key assumptions made in arriving at the Black-Scholes valuations were: share price on date of 
valuation, adjusted for subsequent consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the warrants were expected to remain 
exercisable. A risk free interest rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the warrants at the time of granting, and an 
interest rate of 1.04% and the same implied volatility at year end. It was also assumed that no dividends would be paid during the life of the warrants.
Movement during the period was as follows:
No
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
At 1 January 2011 ––
Granted in Period 21,286,646 55.8
Lapsed in Period ––
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 21,286,646 55.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 21,286,646 55.8
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the warrants outstanding as at 31 March 2012 is 5.75 years.
18 Borrowings continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
48
Financial statements 20 Provisions for liabilities and charges
31 March 2012 31 December 2010
Decommissioning
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Decommissioning
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
At the beginning of the period ––– –––
New provisions 445 – 445 –––
Acquisition of a subsidiary 12,307 160 12,467 –––
Unwinding of discount 197 197 –––
Utilisation/write back of provision 43 (60) (17) –––
At the end of the period 12,992 100 13,092 –––
Provision has been made for the discounted future cost of restoring producing fields to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities. 
The abandonment of the fields is expected to happen at various times between one to 35 years from the period end.
21 Pension Scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension cost charge for the period ended 31 March 2012 represents 
contributions payable by the Group to pension funds and amounted to £260,000 (2010: £712,000).
Contributions amounting to £84,000 (2011: £55,000) were accrued at 31 March 2012 and are included in creditors.
22 Commitments
The Group’s capital and lease commitments comprised:
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Capital Commitment:
Obligation under 13th licensing round 2,000 1,000
Decommissioning – 26
Less: Amounts covered by Nexen Carry Agreements – (141)
– 885
Obligation under the 11 December 2009 farm-up agreement with Nexen – 2,036
Total capital commitments 2,000 2,921
The Nexen Carry Agreements and the farm-up agreements are as further described in note 11, including the up to £2 million provided for by 
the first farm-up agreement, which was not a firm commitment. On 9 March 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of Nexen, thereby 
transferring the carried balance within the Group.
The Group used finance leases to acquire property, plant and equipment with a net book value of £210,000 (2010: £nil). These leases have 
terms of renewal but no purchase options or escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the lessee. Future minimum lease payments 
under finance leases are set out below:
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Future minimum lease payments payable within:
1 year 52 –
1–2 years – –
2–3 years – –
52 –
Less ﬁnance charge 1 –
Net obligations 51 –
Of which – payable within 1 year 51 –
 – payable within 1 to 2 years – –
 – payable within 2 to 3 years – –
51 –
Security is given for net obligations under finance leases falling due within one year and after more than one year with a fixed charge over the 
relevant assets of the Group relative to the amount outstanding.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
49 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Operating lease commitments
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in proﬁt for the year 573 63
At the balance sheet date the Group had minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease  
for each of the following years
– expiring within 1 year 307 45
– expiring within 1 to 5 years 520 –
Total 827 45
23 Financial instruments and risk management
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
1
7,915 12,087 7,915 12,087
Trade and other receivables
1
9,128 61 9,128 61
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
Finance lease
2
51 – 51 –
Borrowings (ﬂoating rate)
2
74,952 – 82,296 –
Trade and other payables
1
3,509 240 3,509 240
Fair value through proﬁt and loss
Commodity price swaps
3,4
16,161 – 16,161 –
Interest rate swaps
3
532 – 532 –
Warrants
5
2,806 – 2,806 –
1 The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values where discounting is not material.
2 The fair value of borrowings and other financial liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing market interest rates for instruments with 
substantially the same terms and characteristics.
3 The fair value of commodity price swaps and interest rate swaps are determined using discounted cash flow analysis at quoted interest rates.
4 Some 55% of the commodity price swaps include an embedded foreign currency forward which has not been accounted for or valued separately.
5 The fair value of warrants is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique:
 – Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 – Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or 
indirectly; and
 – Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at the reporting dates are as follows:
Level 1
£000
Level 2
£000
Level 3
£000
Total
£000
At 31 March 2012
Commodity price swaps – 16,161 – 16,161
Interest rate swaps – 532 – 532
Warrants – 2,806 – 2,806
Total – 19,499 – 19,499
At 31 December 2010
Commodity price swaps – – – –
Interest rate swaps ––––
Warrants ––––
Total ––––
22 Commitments continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
50
Financial statements Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into certain swap contracts in order to manage its exposure to commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk associated with 
sales of oil in US dollars and interest rate risk associated with debt service costs.
The outstanding contracts as at 31 March 2012 are as follows:
Term Contract amount Contract price/rate
Average Fixed 
Price/Rate
Fair value at 
31 March 2012 
£000
US dollar commodity price swaps 2012–2017 908 Mbbls oil $90-$96/bbl $92.94/bbl 7,340
Pound sterling commodity price swaps 2012–2017 1,001 Mbbls oil £56.70-£60.75/bbl £59.08/bbl 8,821
Interest rate swaps 2012–2016 $67.5m declining to $22.8m 0.91%-1.36% 1.15% 532
The group’s commodity price swaps mature over the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2017 on contracted volumes that decline in 
line with the Senergy 2P production profile. During the period to 31 March 2012 oil hedges for 146 thousand barrels matured generating a net 
cost of £2.3 million (2010: £nil).
The group‘s interest rate swaps mature over the period from 14 December 2011 to 13 December 2016 with a profile linked to the expected 
repayment of principal on the Macquarie Facilities.
As no derivative instrument has been designated for hedge accounting, all gains and losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial risk management
The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, warrants and trade and other payables. The main purpose 
of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations including the Group’s capital expenditure programme and to fund acquisitions. 
The Group has trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations. The Group also enters 
into derivative transactions.
The Group manages its exposure to key financial risks in accordance with its financial risk management policy. The objective of the policy is to 
support the Group’s financial targets while protecting future financial security. The Group is exposed to the following risks:
 – Market risk, including commodity price, interest rate, and foreign currency risks
 – Credit risk
 – Liquidity risk
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. It is the Group’s policy that all 
transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Group. The Group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative exposures.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, such as 
commodity price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The sensitivity analyses below have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign 
currencies are all constant and that financial derivatives are held to maturity. The sensitivity analysis is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes 
in market variables on the Group’s financial instruments and show the impact on profit or loss and shareholders’ equity, where applicable.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 – The sensitivity of the relevant profit before tax item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the 
financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2012 and 31 December 2010; and
 – The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax and ignores the effects of deferred tax, if any.
Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in prevailing market commodity prices (primarily crude oil) on the mix of oil and gas products it 
produces. The Group’s policy is to manage these risks through the use of derivative financial instruments (commodity price swaps) to keep 
between 60% and 75% of its production over the next six years on fixed price.
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in commodity prices on the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax as these derivative financial instruments have not been 
designated as hedges and are classified as held-for-trading.
23 Financial instruments and risk management continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
51 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
The analysis is based on the assumption that the crude oil price moves 10%, with all other variables held constant.
Increase/(decrease) in proﬁt before 
tax for the period ended and to 
equity as at
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
10% increase in the price of oil (12,300) –
10% decrease in the price of oil 12,300 –
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s borrowings with floating interest rates. The 
Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps). The Group’s policy is to keep 
approximately half of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in interest rates on the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
interest rate swaps. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax as these derivative financial instruments (interest rate 
swaps) have not been designated as hedges and are classified as held-for-trading.
The analysis is based on the assumption that US-dollar LIBOR moves 50 basis points, with all other variables held constant.
Increase/(decrease) in proﬁt before 
tax for the period ended and to 
equity as at
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
50 basis point increase in LIBOR 800 –
50 basis point decrease in LIBOR (800) –
Foreign currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in currencies other than the UK pound sterling, 
the functional currency of all group companies. The Group’s sales are denominated in US dollars, and around 5% of costs are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities within the Group, primarily US dollars. The Group manages this risk through the 
use of derivative financial instruments (commodity price swaps) which fix the price of oil in pounds sterling. The commodity price swaps 
denominated in sterling account for 55% of the total production covered by commodity price swaps (the remainder are denominated in US 
dollars), fixing the exchange rate.
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in the US dollar/pound sterling exchange rate on the financial assets 
and liabilities in the balance sheet at period end. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the pound moves 10%, with all other variables held constant.
Increase/(decrease) in proﬁt before 
tax for the period ended and to 
equity as at
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
10% strengthening of the pound against the US dollar 14,666 –
10% weakening of the pound against the US dollar (14,666) –
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s policy to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering 
contracts. Under this policy, each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery 
terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, when available, and in some cases bank and trade references.
The exposure to credit risk from credit sales is not considered significant given the small number of well established credit customers and zero 
historic default rate.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had 2 customers (31 December 2010: one) that owed the Group more than £2.5 million each and accounted for 
approximately 95% (31 December 2010: 0%) of all receivables owing. The need for impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an 
individual basis for major clients.
23 Financial instruments and risk management continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
52
Financial statements 23 Financial instruments and risk management continued
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s exposure 
to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. The Group 
limits its counterparty credit risk on these assets by dealing only with financial institutions with credit ratings of at least “A” or equivalent.
Refer to note 15 for analysis of trade receivables ageing.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast 
and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and future capital and operating commitments.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments:
On demand
£000
< 1 year
£000
1–2 years
£000
2–3 years
£000
>3 years
£000
Total
£000
At 31 March 2012
Borrowings – 16,475 15,584 15,021 34,313 81,393
Trade and other payables – 3,509 – – – 3,509
Warrants – 2,806 – – – 2,806
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Commodity price swaps – 8,694 5,290 2,488 1,424 17,896
Interest rate swaps – 434 261 69 (241) 523
– 31,918 21,135 17,578 35,496 106,127
At 31 December 2011
Trade and other payables 240 240
– 240 – – – 240
Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it remains sufficiently funded to support its business strategy and maximise shareholder value. The 
Group’s funding needs are met through a combination of debt and equity (2010: funding requirements through equity) and adjustments are made 
in light of changes in economic conditions. The Group’s capital structure changed in the period to 31 March 2012 as a result of the acquisitions it 
made and the related financing. The Group’s strategy is to maintain ratios in line with covenants associated with the senior debt facility.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity plus net debt. The Group includes within net debt, interest 
bearing bank loans less cash and cash equivalents. Capital includes share capital, share premium, other reserves and accumulated losses.
24 Share capital
On 31 December 2007 the Company completed a reverse takeover whereby IGL became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company but with 
IGL’s shareholders acquiring 94% of the Ordinary Share capital of the combined entity (the “Reverse”).
In accordance with the required accounting for a reverse, the nominal value of the Company’s share capital is not reflected in the Group’s 
consolidated equity. For the purposes of the consolidated accounts share capital was recorded at the date of the Reverse at a value equal to the 
deemed cost of the Reverse, being the adjusted market value of the Company as last quoted immediately prior to the announcement of the 
Reverse, plus the equity of IGL; the effective acquiring company.
Ordinary Shares
No.
£000 Nominal 
value
Issued and fully paid
1 January 2010, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 91,012,975 45,507
23 April 2010 shares issued at a price of 55p each 82,500 41
26 October 2010 shares issued at a price of 64.5p each 2,013,956 1,007
31 December 2010, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 93,109,431 46,555
09 March 2011 Shares issued at a price of 73.50p each 39,714,290 19,857
10 March 2011 Shares issued at a price of 75p each 27,500,000 13,750
14 December 2011 Shares issued at a price of 50.5p each 1,881,188 941
31 March 2012, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 162,204,909 81,103
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
53 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Accordingly, share capital and the share capital account comprised:
£000
Share capital account
At 1 January 2010 18,617
Shares issued during the year 1,048
At 31 December 2010 19,665
Shares issued during the period 34,548
At 31 March 2012 54,213
Deferred shares have no voting rights and shall not be entitled to any dividends or any other right or participation in the profits of the Group.
25 Share Premium Account
Share premium account – The share premium account of the Group arises from the capital that the Company raises upon issuing shares for 
consideration in excess of the nominal value of the shares net of the costs of issuing the new shares. During the period the Company issued 
39,714,290 Ordinary 50p shares at a price of 73.50p each, 27,500,000 Ordinary 50p shares at a price of 75p each and 1,881,188 Ordinary 50p 
shares at a price of 50.5p each (2010: 82,500 and 2,013,956 Ordinary 50p Shares at a price of 55p and 64.5p each). The cost of these issues was 
£0.7 million (2010: £nil). Together these events resulted in a net movement in the Share Premium reserve of £15.5 million (2010: £0.3 million).
26 Other reserves
Other reserves can be analysed as follows:
Warrant/Share 
Plan Reserves
£000
Treasury Shares
£000
Capital 
Contributions
£000
Total
£000
Balance 1 January 2010 131 – – 131
Transfer to retained earnings/(accumulated deﬁcit) account re warrants (131) – – (131)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2 63 – – 63
Treasury shares issued during the year – (1,299) – (1,299)
Balance 31 December 2010 63 (1,299) – (1,236)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2 49 – – 49
Capital contribution – – 47 47
Balance 31 March 2012 112 (1,299) 47 (1,140)
Warrant Reserve
Movement in the warrants during the period was as follows:
No
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
At 1 January 2010 440,000 60
Exercised in Period (82,500) 55
Lapsed in Period (357,500) 60
Outstanding at 31 December 2010 ––
Exercisable at 31 December 2010 ––
Exercised in Period ––
Lapsed in Period ––
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 ––
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 ––
24 Share capital continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
54
Financial statements Employee share plans – Equity settled
Details of the share options under employee share plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
LTIP 2011 LTIP Share Option Plan
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Outstanding at 1 January 2010 – – – – –
Granted during the Period 1,125,000 – – – 1,322,204 70
Forfeited during the Period – – – – – –
Exercised during the Period – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 2010 1,125,000 – – – 1,322,204 70
Exercisable at 31 December 2010 – – – – –
Granted during the Period – – 2,107,485 – – –
Cancelled during the Period (1,075,000) – – – (910,930) 70
Exercised during the Period – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 50,000 – 2,107,485 – 411,274 70
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 – – – – –
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 (“LTIP”)
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP, participants 
can each be granted nil-cost options over up to 1.5% of the issued share capital of the Company (subject to an overall plan limit of 7.5% of the 
issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has a three year performance period and awards vest subject to the achievement 
of stretching share price targets. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a revised share price target reflecting the 
reduction in the performance period shall instead be used to determine the extent to which LTIP options vest. Other than on a change of control, 
50% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting, with the remaining 50% becoming exercisable on the first anniversary of vesting. 
There were no LTIPs in this scheme exercised during the year. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and maximum term remaining of 8.5 years.
The total charge for the year was £52 thousand. Of this amount, £2 thousand was capitalised and £50 thousand was charged to the income 
statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the LTIP scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”)
In November 2011 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP, 
participants can each be granted nil-cost options over up to 300% of remuneration for the Initial Award and up to 150% of remuneration for 
the Annual Award (subject to an overall plan limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has a three 
year performance period and awards vest subject to share price performance exceeding the Company’s weighted average cost of capital of 
10%. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a proportion of the options that vest will take into account items 
such as the time the Option has been held by the participant and the performance achieved in the period from the grant date. Other than on a 
change of control, 100% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting.
There were no LTIPs exercised during the period. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a weighted average remaining contractual 
life and maximum term remaining of 9.5 years.
The total charge for the year was £58 thousand. Of this amount, £14 thousand was capitalised and £44 thousand was charged to the income 
statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the Share Option scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo 
Simulation Model.
Share Option Plan
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Share option plan for certain key employees of the Group. Both executives and employees may 
participate in the Share Option Plan. Typically each individual participant can be granted options under the Share Option Plan with a market 
value at grant of up to 100% of his base salary, although this limit can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Share options vest in three 
equal tranches over a three year period from the date of grant and vested options are exercisable subject to the attainment of a Company share 
price target.
2010 grants under the Share Option Plan are subject to an exercise price of 70p per share.
There were no Options exercised during the year. The unvested Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and maximum remaining term of 8.5 years.
26 Other reserves continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
55 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
The total charge for the year was £90 thousand. Of this amount, £17 thousand was capitalised and £89 thousand was charged to the income 
statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the Share Option scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo 
Simulation Model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model were as follows:
LTIP 2011 LTIP
Share Option 
Plan
Weighted average share price 64.5p 50.5p 64.5p
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil 70p
Expected volatility 35% 35% 35%
Expected life 6.5 years 6.5 years 5–6.5 years
Risk-free rate 1.09% 0.701% 1.09%
Expected dividends 0% 0% 0%
Weighted average fair value of awards granted in 2011 n/a 23.12p n/a
Weighted average fair value of awards granted in 2010 6p n/a 12p
Treasury shares
The Treasury shares of the Group has arisen in connection with the shares issued to the IGas Employee Benefit Trust, of which the Company is 
the sponsoring entity. The value of such shares is recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way and is also shown as 
a deduction from equity in this separate other reserve account; and so there is not net effect on shareholders’ funds. During the 15 months to 
31 March 2012 no shares were issued to the Employee Benefit Trust (2010: 2,013,956).
Capital contribution
The capital contribution of £47 thousand was received in cash following the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Ltd.
27 Related party transactions
The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and related parties in the normal course of business for the 
fifteen months ended 31 March 2012.
Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in 
this note.
Nexen Petroleum UK Limited is related by virtue of having a 24.77% share in the Group as a result of the Company’s acquisition of Nexen 
Exploration UK Limited. Pursuant to the terms of the Secondment Agreement dated 10 March 2011 entered into by the Company, Nexen 
Petroleum UK Limited provided various services in relation to the Group’s operations. For the fifteen months ended 31 March 2012, the services 
provided to the Group amounted to £264 thousand of which £nil thousand remained outstanding (2010: there were no such related party 
trading transactions).
Larchford is related by virtue of the Group’s 33% interest in the company. There were no transactions with Larchford during the period, but the 
Group is owed £878,000 under a loan agreement between Larchford and Star Energy Limited.
The Directors of the Company are considered to be the only key management personnel as defined by IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures 
Transactions with key management personnel were as follows:
15 months 
ended March 
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Short-term employee beneﬁts 1,425 854
Share plan 199 22
1,624 876
Short-term employee benefits: These amounts comprise fees paid to the Directors in respect of salary and benefits earned during the relevant 
financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Share plan: This is the cost to the Group of Directors’ participation in LTIPs and Share Option plans, as measured by the fair value of LTIPs and 
options granted, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
Further details regarding transactions with the Directors of the Group are disclosed in note 5.
There are no other related party transactions.
28 Subsequent events
There have been no events after the reporting period that require adjustment or disclosure in accordance with IAS10: “Events after the 
Reporting Period”.
26 Other reserves continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
56
Financial statements Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – Directors’ statement of 
responsibilities in respect thereof
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRSs”).
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the 
financial position of the Parent Company and its financial performance and cash flows for that period. In preparing the Parent Company 
financial statements the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply 
them consistently;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Parent Company’s financial position and financial performance;
 – state that the Parent Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
 – financial statements; and
 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Parent Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements and, having a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, will continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
57 Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
IGas Energy Plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the fifteen months ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the 
Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in 
Equity, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 16. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2012;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements and are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the 15 months ended 31 March 2012.
Daniel Trotman
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
29 June 2012
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
58
Financial statements Parent Company statement of comprehensive income
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
15 months 
ended  
March  
2012
£000
Year  
ended 
31 December 
2010
£000
Loss for the year (8,506) (1,401)
Other comprehensive income for the year – –
Total comprehensive loss for the year (8,506) (1,401)
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
59 Parent Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 2012
Notes
31 March  
2012 
£000
31 December  
2010
£000
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 2 190,154 50,555
Property, plant and equipment 3 72 32
Loans to subsidiaries 4 – 5,013
190,226 55,600
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 4 22,795 289
Cash and cash equivalents 5 3,452 11,772
26,247 12,061
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6 (29,205) (530)
Borrowings 8 (16,475) –
Other liabilities 9 (2,806) –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11 (413) –
(48,899) (530)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (22,652) 11,531
Total assets less current liabilities 167,574 67,131
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 8 (58,477) –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11 (119) –
(58,596) –
Net assets 108,978 67,131
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 12 81,102 46,555
Share premium account 13 21,928 6,392
Merger Reserve 14 22,222 22,222
Other reserves 15 (1,140) (1,236)
Retained earnings (accumulated deﬁcit) (15,134) (6,802)
Shareholders’ funds 108,978 67,131
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 29 June 2012 and are signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Austin Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
60
Financial statements Parent Company statement of changes in equity
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
Called up  
share capital  
(Note 12)
£000
Merger reserve
£000
Share premium 
account
£000
Other reserves
£000
Retained 
earnings 
(accumulated 
deﬁcit)
£000
Total
£000
Balance at 1 January 2010 45,507 22,222 6,095 131 (5,532) 68,423
Changes in equity for 2010
Loss for the year – – – – (1,401) (1,401)
Lapse of warrants – – – (131) 131 –
Employee share plans cost under IFRS (note 15) – – – 63 – 63
Issue of Shares 1,048 – 297 (1,299) – 46
Balance at 31 December 2010 46,555 22,222 6,392 (1,236) (6,802) 67,131
Changes in equity for 2011
Loss for the period – – – – (8,506) (8,506)
Capital contribution – – – 47 – 47
Employee share plans cost under IFRS2 (note 15) – – – 49 174 223
Issue of shares 34,547 – 15,536 – – 50,083
Balance at 31 March 2012 81,102 22,222 21,928 (1,140) (15,134) 108,978
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
61 Parent Company cash ﬂow statement
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2012
Notes
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended 
31 December 
2010
£000
Operating activities:
Loss for the year (8,506) (1,401)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 24 9
Share-based payment charge 1,103 20
Gain on revaluation on warrants (1,651) –
Finance income (246) (170)
Finance costs 3,796 –
Increase in trade and other receivables (248) (86)
Increase in trade and other payables 841 418
Revaluation 101 –
Net cash used in operating activities (4,786) (1,210)
Investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (63) (41)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (110,338) –
Loans granted to subsidiaries (17,246) (4,678)
Interest received 246 170
Net cash used investing activities (127,401) (4,549)
Financing activities
Cash proceeds from issue of Ordinary Share Capital net of issue costs 12 19,944 46
Capital contribution 15 47 –
Interest paid (2,095) –
Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings 84,569
Loan issue costs (3,141) –
Repayment of loans and borrowings (3,100)
Loans from subsidiary 27,834
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 124,058 46
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (8,129) (5,713)
Net foreign exchange difference (191) –
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 11,772 17,485
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 5 3,452 11,772
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
62
Financial statements Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes
As at 31 March 2012
1 Accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements
The Parent Company financial statements of IGas Energy plc (the “Company”) have been prepared under the historical cost convention in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards , adopted for use by the European Union (“IFRSs”) as they apply to the Company 
for the 15 months period ended 31 March 2012 and with the Companies Act 2006. The accounting period is not comparable with the prior 
year as this 15 month period represents a long period of account to align the year end with the newly acquired entity Star Energy Group 
Limited. The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 June 2012. IGas Energy plc is a public 
limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The Company’s financial statements are presented in UK pound sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except when
otherwise indicated.
As a Consolidated income statement is published in this Annual Report, a separate income statement for the Company is not presented within 
these financial statements as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the period, the Company adopted the following new and amended IFRS which were applicable to the Company’s activities as of 1 January 201 1.
Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IAS 24 Amendment to IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures – This amendment clarifies the definition of a related 
party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its 
application. The revised standard introduces a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for 
government-related entities. The Company has considered the effect of this interpretation and has 
concluded that there is no impact on the financial statements
1 January 2011
New and amended standards and interpretations
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except for the following new and amended IFRS and 
IFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2011.
 – IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
 – IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
 – IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement
These amendments have no impact from on its financial position or performance of the Company.
Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory only for the Company’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2012 or later periods but which the Group has not adopted early. Those that may be applicable 
to the Company in future are as follows:
Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Financial Statement Presentation – This amendment changes the grouping of 
items presented in the Other comprehensive Income. Items that could be reclassified to profit and loss 
at a future point in time (for example, upon de-recognition or settlement) would be presented 
separately from items which will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only and 
therefore will have no impact on the Company’s financial position or performance.
1 July 2012
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement – IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of 
the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial 
assets as defined in IAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 
2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, 
hedge accounting and derecognition. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the 
classification and measurement of the Company’s financial assets. The Company will quantify the effect in 
conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
1 January 2015
IFRS 11 IFRS11 – Joint Arrangements – IFRS11 establishes principle of the financial reporting by parties to a joint 
arrangement. IFRS 11 supersedes IAS31. It removes the option to jointly controlled entities (JCE) using 
proportionate consolidation.
1 January 2013
IFRS 12 IFRS12 – Disclosures of involvement with other entities- IFRS12 combines, enhances and replaces the 
disclosure requirement for subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and in consolidated structured entities.
1 January 2013
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
63 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
IFRS 13 IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement – IFRS13 defines fair value, set out in a single IFRS a framework for 
measuring fair value and requires disclosure about fair value measurements. IFRS 13 applies when other 
IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements. It does not introduce any new requirements to 
measure an asset or liability at fair value, change what is measured at fair value in IFRS or address how 
to present changes in fair value.
1 January 2013
IAS 28 IAS28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Venture – IAS28 has been renamed as a consequence of 
the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint 
venture in addition to associates.
1 January 2013
IAS 27 Revised IAS 27 Revised – Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. The objective of the Standard is to 
prescribe the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
1 January 2013
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will either individually or collectively have a material 
impact on the Company’s financial statements in the period of initial application. The Company does not anticipate adopting these standards 
and interpretations ahead of their effective date.
(b) Going concern
The Company’s principal activity and principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Directors’ report. The ability of the Company to operate 
as a going concern is dependent upon the continued availability of bank funding, which in turn is dependent on the Company not breaching 
covenants, without cure or formal waiver from its bankers. Under its bank facilities the Company drew down $135 million of committed funds 
in connection with the acquisition of Star Energy Group Limited, which is repayable in tranches over the period of a five year term until 
December 2016. The Company regularly monitors forecasts to determine that breaches are not anticipated to occur in the future. On the basis 
of the Company’s current forecasts, no breaches in covenants are anticipated. However these forecasts are based on certain assumptions 
particularly in relation to oil prices, production rates, operating costs, capital and general expenditure. The Company is protected to a material 
degree against volatility in the oil price, by having a significant proportion of its production hedged at above $90 per barrel. Despite this, there 
can be no certainty that these forecasts will be achieved, in which case the financial covenants could be breached. Should any breach be 
anticipated to arise, the Company would manage its working capital profile, reduce discretionary expenditure, where necessary and, if 
applicable, take additional mitigating actions that have already been identified as a precautionary measure. The Directors consider that the 
expected operating cash flows of the group and combined with the current borrowing facilities give them confidence that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue as a going concern. The financial statements have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis.
(c) Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The principal activity of the Company’s major subsidiary, IGL, which has been accounted for at fair value at acquisition less provision for 
impairment, is the production of oil and gas.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk 
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
Carrying value of investment in subsidiaries:
The Company evaluates investments in subsidiaries that have been accounted for at fair value at acquisition less provision for impairment as 
described in (d) below. Any impairment review, where required, involves estimates and associated assumptions related to matters (when 
appropriate), such as recoverable reserves; production profiles; review of forward gas and electricity prices; development, operational and 
offtake costs; nature of land access agreements and planning permissions; application of taxes, and other matters. Where the final outcome or 
revised estimates related to such matters differ from the estimates used in any earlier impairment reviews, the results of such differences, to the 
extent that they actually affected any impairment provisions, are accounted for when such revisions are made. Details of the Company’s 
investments are disclosed in note 2.
Functional currency
The determination of a company’s functional currency often requires significant judgement where the primary economic environment in which 
it operates may not be clear. This can have a significant impact on the results of the Company based on the foreign currency translation 
methods used.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
64
Financial statements (d) Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments held as non-current assets are held at cost less provision for impairment unless the investments were acquired in exchange for the 
issue or part issue of shares in the Company, when they are initially recorded in the Company’s balance sheet at the fair value of the shares 
issued together with the fair value of any consideration paid, including costs of acquisition less any provision for impairment which may 
subsequently be required.
The Company’s investments held as non-current assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, when impairment is calculated on the basis as set out below. Any impairment is charged 
to the income statement.
Impairment
Impairment reviews, when required as described above, are carried out on the following basis:
 – By comparing any amounts carried as investments held as non-current assets with the recoverable amount.
 – The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The Company generally relies on fair value 
less cost to sell assessed either by reference to comparable market transactions between a willing buyer and a willing seller or on the same 
basis as used by willing buyers and sellers in the oil and gas industry. When assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change 
in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment losses, the 
carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value and the carrying value that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Property, plant and equipment
Other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the 
cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, over their estimated useful lives at the following rates, with any impairment being 
accounted for as additional depreciation:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – between three and five years on a straight line basis
Motor Vehicles – over four years on a straight line basis
(e) Financial Instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and cash held on current account or on short-term deposits at variable interest rates with 
original maturity periods of up to three months. Any interest earned is accrued monthly and classified as interest income within finance income.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value when related amounts are invoiced, less any allowances for doubtful debts or provision 
made for impairment of these receivables.
Trade and other payables
These financial liabilities are all non interest bearing and are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received.
Impairment of financial assets
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or 
significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the 
invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are 
assessed as uncollectible.
(f) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including 
whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Operating leases
Rentals are charged to the Income Statement in the year on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
65 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
(g) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the 
tax authorities. Taxable (loss)/profit differs from the (loss)/profit before taxation as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. Temporary 
differences arise from differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as 
more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at 
each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the assets is realised or the liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
(h) Share-based payments
Where share options or warrants are awarded to employees (including Directors), the fair value of the options or warrants at the date of the 
grant is recorded in equity over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions, but only those related to service and performance, are taken 
into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative 
amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. All other vesting conditions, including 
Market vesting conditions, are factored in to the fair value of the options or warrants granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are 
satisfied, the amount recorded is computed irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative amount 
recognised is not adjusted for the failure to achieve a market vesting condition; although equity no longer required for options or warrants may 
be transferred to another equity reserve.
Where the terms and conditions of options or warrants are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured 
immediately before and after the modification, is also recorded in equity over the remaining vesting period.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the amount recognised in equity is the fair value of goods and
services received.
Charges corresponding to the amounts recognised in equity are accounted as a cost against the profit and loss which will usually be to the 
Parent Company Income Statement unless the services rendered qualify for capitalisation as a non-current asset. Costs may be capitalised within 
non-current assets in the event of services being rendered in connection with an acquisition or intangible exploration and evaluation assets or 
property, plant and equipment.
Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, the value of such shares at issue will be 
recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way, but will not affect shareholders’ funds since this same value will be 
shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds by way of a separate component of equity (Treasury shares).
(i) Equity
Equity instruments issued by the Company are usually recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and allocated between called 
up share capital, share premium accounts or merger reserve as appropriate.
(j) Foreign Currency
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency UK pound sterling are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
1 Accounting policies continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
66
Financial statements 2 Non-current assets – investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries comprises:
£000
At 1 January 2010 50,555
At 1 January 2011 50,555
Acquisition in the year, at fair value 139,528
Employee share-based payment cost under IFRS 2 71
At 31 March 2012 190,154
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 March 2012 which are all 100% owned directly or indirectly by the Company and are all 
incorporated in England and Wales, were:
Name Principal activity
Island Gas Limited Production and marketing of oil and gas
Island Gas Operations Limited Electricity Generation
Island Gas Exploration UK Limited Production and marketing of gas
Star Energy Group Limited Service Company
Star Energy Limited Service Company
Star Energy Weald Basin Limited Processing of oil and gas
Star Energy (East Midlands) Limited Dormant
Star Energy Oil and Gas Limited Dormant
Star Energy Oil UK Limited Dormant
3 Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, ﬁttings 
and equipment 
£000
Motor vehicles 
£000 Total £000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 –––
Additions 21 20 41
At 31 December 2010 21 20 41
Additions 66 – 66
Disposals (2) – (2)
Acquisitions
At 31 March 2012 85 20 105
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 –––
Charge for the year, including impairment 4 5 9
At 31 December 2010 459
Charge for the period, including impairment 18 6 24
Disposals –––
Acquisitions –––
At 31 March 2012 22 11 33
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 17 15 32
At 31 March 2012 63 9 72
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
67 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
4 Trade and other receivables
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Amounts falling due within one year:
VAT recoverable 233 131
Other debtors 2 2
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 22,359 101
Prepayments 201 55
22,795 289
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings – 5,013
– 5,013
The carrying value of each of the Company’s financial assets as stated above being other debtors is considered to be a reasonable 
approximation of its fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of assets listed in the table above.
5 Cash and cash equivalents
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 3,452 11,772
3,452 11,772
The carrying value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The Company only deposits cash surpluses with major banks that have acceptable credit ratings of “A” or better, except that the Company will 
make deposits with banks where the UK government is the major shareholder.
6 Current liabilities
31 March  
2012
£000
31 December 
2010
£000
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 719 76
Taxation and social security 75 42
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 27,834 –
Accruals and other creditors 577 412
29,205 530
The carrying value of each of the Company’s financial liabilities being trade creditors is considered to be a reasonable approximation of its fair value. 
All creditors are payable within one month and no creditor has been outstanding for longer than three months (2010: all within one month).
7 Taxation
Tax losses, none of which is considered sufficiently certain of utilisation to set up deferred tax assets, amount to:
15 months 
ended  
31 March  
2012 
£000
Year  
ended 
31 December 
2010
£000
Excess management expenses 14,288 4,830
Related to share-based payment transactions 97 13
Excess management expenses may only be offset against future profits, if any, of the Company generated in its capacity as a Group
holding company.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
68
Financial statements 8 Borrowings
31 March 2012 31 December 2010
Within  
1 year
£000
Greater  
than 1 year
£000
Total
£000
Within  
1 year
£000
Greater  
than 1 year
£000
Total
£000
Facility A* 16,475 32,818 49,293 –––
Facility B* – 25,659 25,659 –––
16,475 58,477 74,952 –––
* Transaction costs of raising debt of £7.6 million have been netted off against the liability.
On 21 November 2011 the Company and Macquarie entered into a senior secured facility agreement (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit 
Agreement consists of three separate facilities:
(i) a $90,000,000 5 year senior secured term loan, carrying interest at 5.5% over LIBOR and a 2% commitment fee;
(ii) a $45,000,000 5 year senior secured term loan, carrying interest at 12% above LIBOR and a commitment fee of 3.5%; and
(iii) an uncommitted working capital facility of up to $15,000,000 which may be made available at the discretion of Macquarie(remain undrawn 
at March 31, 2012).
The Credit Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for a credit facility of this nature. Such covenants 
include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance of financial ratios and
certain restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, incurrence of financial 
indebtedness and on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also contains customary 
events of default, the occurrence of which allow Macquarie (and any other lender that accedes to the Credit Agreement) to accelerate 
outstanding loans and terminate the commitments. The facilities are required to be repaid in full on the date that is 60 months following the 
completion of the Acquisition, on a change of control and the sale of the assets of the Group.
The Company’s financing under the Credit Agreement is denominated in US Dollars.
9 Other liabilities
£000
At 1 January 2010 –
Warrants issued during period 4,457
Revaluation (1,651)
As at 31 March 2012 2,806
Warrants issued to Macquarie Bank under the Facilities Agreement can be exercised in four different ways and, although the cost to the 
Company would be the same under each exercise option, these warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS39 due to the variable 
number of shares that would be issued in each case. Accordingly they have been accounted for as financial liabilities.
All warrants vested on grant and accordingly the key assumptions made in arriving at the Black–Scholes valuations were: share price on date of 
grant, adjusted for subsequent consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the warrants were expected to remain 
exercisable. A risk free interest rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the warrants at the time of granting and risk 
free interest rate of 1.04% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the warrants as at 31 March 2012. It was also assumed that no 
dividends would be paid during the life of the warrants.
Movement during the period was as follows:
No
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
At 1 January 2010 ––
Granted in Period 21,286,646 55.8
Lapsed in Period ––
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 21,286,646 55.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 21,286,646 55.8
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the warrants outstanding as at 31 March 2012 is 5.75 years.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
69 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
10 Commitments
At the balance sheet date the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating 
leases, all falling due in under one year of £45 thousand (2010: £45 thousand).
11 Financial instruments and risk management
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the financial instruments that are carried in the companys 
balance sheet.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 March 
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
31 March 
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
1
3,452 11,772 3,452 11,772
Trade and other receivables
1
– 61 – 61
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
Borrowings (ﬂoating rate)
2
74,952 – 82,296 –
Trade and other payables
1
719 76 719 76
Fair value through proﬁt and loss
Interest rate swaps
3
532 – 532 –
Warrants
4
2,806 – 2,806 –
1 The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values where discounting is not material.
2 The fair value of borrowings and other financial liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing market interest rates for instruments with 
substantially the same terms and characteristics.
3 The fair value of commodity price swaps and interest rate swaps are determined using discounted cash flow analysis at quoted interest rates.
4 The fair value of warrants is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique:
 – Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 – Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or 
indirectly; and
 – Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at the reporting dates are as follows:
Level 1 
£000
Level 2 
£000
Level 3 
£000
Total 
£000
At 31 March 2012
Interest rate swaps – 532 – 532
Warrants – 2,806 – 2,806
Total – 3,338 – 3,338
At 31 December 2010
Interest rate swaps ––––
Warrants ––––
Total ––––
Derivative financial instruments
The Company enters into certain swap contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with interest rate risk 
associated with debt service costs.
The outstanding contracts as at 31 March 2012 are as follows:
Term Contract amount
Contract  
price/rate
Average  
Fixed Price/
Rate
Fair value at  
31 March  
2012  
£000
Interest rate swaps 2012-2016
$67.5m declining  
to $22.8m 0.91%–1.36% 1.15% 532
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
70
Financial statements The Company’s interest rate swaps mature over the period from 14 December 2011 to 13 December 2016 with a profile linked to the expected 
repayment of principal on the Macquarie Facilities.
Financial risk management
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, warrants and trade and other payables. The main 
purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s subsidiary operations and to fund acquisitions. The Company has trade and 
other receivables and cash and cash equivalents that arrive directly from its operations. The Company also enters into derivative transactions.
The Company manages its exposure to key financial risks in accordance with its financial risk management policy. The objective of the policy is 
to support the Company’s financial targets while protecting future financial security. The Company is exposed to the following risks:
 – Market risk, including interest rate, and foreign currency risks
 – Credit risk
 – Liquidity risk
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. It is the Company’s policy that all 
transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Company. The Company does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative exposures.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, such as 
interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The sensitivity analyses below have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, and the proportion of financial instruments in 
foreign currencies are all constant and that financial derivatives are held to maturity. The sensitivity analysis is intended to illustrate the sensitivity 
to changes in market variables on the Group’s financial instruments and show the impact on profit or loss and shareholders’ equity, where 
applicable.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 – The balance sheet position sensitivity relates to derivatives and accounts receivables;
 – The sensitivity of the relevant profit before tax item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the 
financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2012 and 31 December 2010; and
 – The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax.
Interest rate risk
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s borrowings with floating interest 
rates. The Company’s policy is to manage its interest cost using derivative financial. The Company’s policy is to keep between half of its 
borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in interest rates on the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
interest rate swaps. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax as these derivative financial instruments (interest rate 
swaps) have not been designated as hedges and are classified as held-for-trading.
The analysis is based on the assumption that US-dollar LIBOR moves 50 basis points, with all other variables held constant.
Increase/(decrease) in proﬁt  
before tax for the period ending  
and to equity as at
31 March  
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
50 basis point increase in LIBOR 800 –
50 basis point decrease in LIBOR (800) –
11 Financial instruments and risk management continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
71 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Foreign currency risk
The Company has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure arises from purchases in currencies other than the UK pound sterling, the 
functional currency of the Company. 10% of the Company’s costs are denominated in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency, 
primarily US dollars.
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in the US dollar/UK pound sterling exchange rate. The impact on 
equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the pound moves 10%, with all other variables held constant. 
Increase/(decrease) in proﬁt  
before tax for the period ending 
and to equity as at
31 March  
2012 
£000
31 December 
2010 
£000
10% strengthening of the pound against the US dollar 7,835 –
10% weakening of the pound against the US dollar (7,835) –
Credit risk
With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Company, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and amounts due from 
subsidiary undertakings, the Company’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the 
carrying amount of these instruments. The Company limits its counterparty credit risk on these cash and cash equivalents by dealing only with 
financial institutions with credit ratings of at least “A” or equivalent.
Liquidity risk
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring 
forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and future capital and operating commitments.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
On demand 
£000
<1 year 
£000
1–2 years 
£000
2–3 years 
£000
>3 years 
£000
Total 
£000
At 31 March 2012
Borrowings – 16,475 15,584 15,021 34,313 81,393
Trade and other payables – 719 – – – 719
Warrants – 2,806 – – – 2,806
Derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps – 434 261 69 (241) 523
– 20,434 15,845 15,090 34,072 85,441
At 31 December 2010
Trade and other payables – 76 – – – –
– 76––––
Capital management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it remains sufficiently funded to support its business strategy and maximise shareholder value. 
The Company’s funding needs are met through a combination of debt and equity (2010: funding requirements through equity) and adjustments 
are made in light of changes in economic conditions. The Company’s capital structure changed in the period to 31 March 2012 as a result of the 
acquisitions it made. The Company’s strategy is to maintain ratios in line with covenants associated with the senior debt facility.
The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity plus net debt. The Company includes within net debt, 
interest bearing bank loans less cash and cash equivalents. Capital includes share capital, share premium, other reserves and accumulated losses.
11 Financial instruments and risk management continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
72
Financial statements 12 Share capital
Ordinary Shares 
No.
£000 
Nominal value
Issued and fully paid
1 January 2010, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 91,012,975 45,507
23 April 2010 shares issued at a price of 55p each 82,500 41
26 October 2010 shares issued at a price of 64.5p each 2,013,956 1,007
31 December 2010, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 93,109,431 46,555
09 March 2011 Shares issued at a price of 73.50p each. 39,714,290 19,857
10 March 2011 Shares issued at a price of 75p each 27,500,000 13,750
14 December 2011 Shares issued at a price of 50.5p each 1,881,188 941
31 March 2012, Ordinary Shares of 50p each 162,204,909 81,103
The costs of all share issues have all been charged to the share premium account and are as disclosed in the Parent Company statement of 
changes in equity.
Deferred shares have no voting rights and shall not be entitled to any dividends or any other right or participation in the profits of the Company.
13 Share Premium Account
Share Premium account – The share premium account of the Company arises from the capital that the Company raises upon issuing shares  
for consideration in excess of the nominal value of the shares net of the costs of issuing the new. During the period the Company issued 
39,714,290 Ordinary 50p shares at a price of 73.50p each, 27,500,000 Ordinary 50p shares at a price of 75p each and 1,881,188 Ordinary 50p 
shares at a price of 50.5p each (2010: 82,500 and 2,013,956 Ordinary 50p Shares at a price of 55p and 64.5p each). The cost of the issue was 
nil (2010: £nil). Together these events resulted in a net movement in the Share Premium reserve of £15.5 million (2010: £297 thousand).
14 Merger Reserve
Merger reserve – The merger reserve arose as a result of a reverse acquisition on 31 December 2007 whereby IGL became a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company but with IGL’s shareholders acquiring 94% of the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company. The reserve represents the 
difference in the fair value and the nominal value of the shares issued. The reserve is not distributable.
15(a) Other Reserves
Other reserves can be analysed as follows:
Share Plan/
Warrant/LTIP 
Reserves 
£000
Treasury 
Shares £000
Capital 
Contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
Balance 1 January 2010 131 – – 131
Transfer to retained earnings/(accumulated deﬁcit) account re warrants (131) – – (131)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2 63 – – 63
Treasury shares issued during the year – (1,299) – (1,299)
Balance 31 December 2010 63 (1,299) – (1,236)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2 49 – – 49
Capital contribution – – 47 47
Balance 31 March 2012 112 (1,299) 47 (1,140)
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
73 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
Warrant Reserve
Movement in the warrants during the period was as follows:
No
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
At 1 January 2010 440,000 60
Exercised in Period (82,500) 55
Lapsed in Period (357,500) 60
Outstanding at 31 December 2010 ––
Exercisable at 31 December 2010 ––
Exercised in Period ––
Lapsed in Period ––
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 ––
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 ––
Employee share plans – Equity settled
Details of the share options under employee share plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
LTIP 2011 LTIP Share Option Plan
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Number of 
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(pence)
Outstanding at 1 January 2010 – – – – – –
Granted during the Period 1,125,000 nil – – 1,322,204 70
Forfeited during the Period – – – – – –
Exercised during the Period – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 2010 1,125,000 nil – – 1,322,204 70
Exercisable at 31 December 2010 –––––
Granted during the Period – – 2,107,485 nil – –
Cancelled during the Period (1,075,000) nil – – (910,930) 70
Exercised during the Period – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2012 50,000 nil 2,107,485 nil 411,274 70
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 – nil – – – –
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 (“LTIP”)
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP, participants 
can each be granted nil cost options over up to 1.5% of the issued share capital of the Company (subject to an overall plan limit of 7.5% of  
the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has a three year performance period and awards vest subject to the 
achievement of stretching share price targets. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a revised share price target 
reflecting the reduction in the performance period shall instead be used to determine the extent to which LTIP options vest. Other than on a 
change of control, 50% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting, with the remaining 50% becoming exercisable on the first 
anniversary of vesting. There were no LTIPs in this scheme exercised during the year. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a 
weighted average remaining contractual life and maximum term remaining of 8.5 years.
The total charge for the year was £52 thousand. Of this amount, £18 thousand was charged to the subsidiary and £34 thousand was charged 
to the income statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the LTIP scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo 
Simulation Model.
15(a) Other Reserves continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
74
Financial statements Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”)
In November 2011 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP, 
participants can each be granted nil cost options over up to 300% of remuneration for the Initial Award and up to 150% of remuneration for 
the Annual Award (subject to an overall plan limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has a three 
year performance period and awards vest subject to share price performance exceeding the Company’s weighted average cost of capital of 
10%. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a proportion of the options that vest will take into account items 
such as the time the Option has been held by the participant and the performance achieved in the period from the grant date. Other than on a 
change of control, 100% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting.
There were no LTIPs exercised during the period. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a weighted average remaining contractual 
life and maximum term remaining of 9.5 years.
The total charge for the year was £58 thousand. Of this amount, £21 thousand was charged to the subsidiary and £37 thousand was charged 
to the income statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the Share Option scheme measured at grant date using a 
Monte Carlo Simulation Model.
Share Option Plan
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Share Option Plan for certain key employees of the Group. Both executives and employees may 
participate in the Share Option Plan. Typically each individual participant can be granted options under the Share Option Plan with a market 
value at grant of up to 100% of his base salary, although this limit can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Share options vest in three 
equal tranches over a three year period from the date of grant and vested options are exercisable subject to the attainment of a Company share 
price target.
2010 grants under the Share Option Plan are subject to an exercise price of 70p per share.
There were no Options exercised during the year. The unvested Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and maximum remaining term of 8.5 years.
The total charge for the year was £90 thousand. Of this amount, £32 thousand was charged to the subsidiary and £58 thousand was charged 
to the income statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted under the Share Option scheme measured at grant date using a 
Monte Carlo Simulation Model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model were as follows:
LTIP 2011 LTIP
Share  
Option Plan
Weighted average share price 64.5p 50.5p 64.5p
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil 70p
Expected volatility 35% 35% 35%
Expected life 6.5 years 6.5 years 5–6.5 years
Risk-free rate 1.09% 0.701% 1.09%
Expected dividends 0% 0% 0%
Weighted average fair value of awards granted in 2011 n/a 23.12p n/a
Weighted average fair value of awards granted in 2010 6p n/a 12p
Treasury shares
The Treasury shares reserve of the Company has arisen in connection with the shares issued to the IGas Employee Benefit Trust, of which the 
Company is the sponsoring entity. The value of such shares is recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way and is 
also shown as a deduction from equity in this separate other reserve account; and so there is not net effect on shareholders’ funds. During the 
15 months to 31 March 2012 no shares were issued to the Employee Benefit Trust (2010: 2,013,956).
Capital contribution
The capital contribution of £47 thousand was received in cash following the acquisition of Nexen Exploration UK Ltd.
15(a) Other Reserves continued
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
75 Parent Company ﬁnancial statements – notes continued
15(b) Related party transactions
(a) With Group companies
A summary of the transactions in the period is as follows:
15 months 
ended 
31 March 
2012 
£000
Year  
ended 
31 December 
2010 
£000
Subsidiaries:
Amounts due from/(to) subsidiary:
Island Gas Limited:
Balance at beginning of period 5,013 436
Services performed by subsidiary ––
Net cash advances 16,397 4,046
Services performed for subsidiary 793 531
Balance at end of period 22,203 5,013
Island Gas Operations Limited:
Balance at beginning of period 101 –
Net cash advances 55 101
Balance at end of period 156 101
Star Energy Limited:
Balance at beginning of period ––
Net cash Advances (10,135) –
Services performed for subsidiary –
(10,135) –
Star Energy Group Limited:
Balance at beginning of period ––
Net cash advances (17,699) –
Services performed for subsidiary –
(17,699) –
Payment terms are as mutually agreed between the Group’s companies.
(b) With Directors
Key management as defined by IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures. are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, 
controlling and directing the activities of the Group. In the opinion of the Board, the Group’s key management are the Directors of the 
Company. Information regarding their compensation is given in notes 5 and 27 to the consolidated accounts.
16 Subsequent events
There have been no events after the reporting period that require adjustment or disclosure in accordance with IAS10: “Events after the 
Reporting Period”.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
76
Financial statements Oil and Gas Reserves
As at 31 March 2012
The Group’s estimates of proven and probable reserve quantities are taken from the Group’s Competent Person’s evaluation reports for the 
Group’s oil fields as of 1 July 2011 and 31 December 2011 together with production data thereafter. Proved reserves are estimated reserves that 
geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years under existing economic and operating 
conditions, while probable reserves are estimated reserves determined to be more likely than not to be recoverable in future years under existing 
economic and operating conditions.
All of the Group’s oil and gas assets are located in the United Kingdom.
Group proved plus probable reserves
Oil 
mmbbls
Gas 
Bcf
Total 
mmboe
At 1 January 2011 0.00 0.00 0.00
Acquired during the year 9.20
1
8.70 10.70
Revisions of estimates after acquisition 0.99 (0.49) 0.91
Production (0.04) 0.00 (0.04)
At 31 December 2011 per Senergy CPR 10.15 8.21 11.57
Production (0.24) 0.00 (0.24)
At 31 March 2012 9.91 8.21 11.33
Note 1: Senergy CPR as at 1 July 2011: 9.63 mmbbl less production between 1 July 2011 and 14 December 2011 0.43 mmbbl.
Senergy was requested to provide an update to its 2011 independent evaluation of the recoverable hydrocarbons expected for each asset 
categorised in accordance with the 2007 Petroleum Resources Management System prepared by the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the 
Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and reviewed and jointly sponsored by the World Petroleum Council (“WPC”), the American Association 
of Petroleum Geologists (“AAPG”) and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers (“SPEE”).
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
77 Proposed business of the Annual General Meeting
Introduction
You will find set out at the end of this document the formal Notice of the Annual General Meeting of IGas Energy plc. This section provides 
some additional information on the Resolutions being proposed at the Annual General Meeting. The following definitions apply throughout this 
section of the document unless the context requires otherwise:
“2006 Act” the Companies Act 2006
“Accounts” the audited financial statements of the Company for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012
“Annual General Meeting” or “AGM” the annual general meeting of the Company convened for 16 August 2012 pursuant to the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting which appears at the end of this document
“Articles” the articles of association of the Company in force at the date of this document
“Board” or “Directors” the board of directors of the Company
“Company” IGas Energy plc
“Form of Proxy” the form of proxy accompanying this document for use at the Annual General Meeting
“New Deferred Shares” the 162,204,909 deferred shares of 40p each in the capital of the Company
“New Ordinary Shares” ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company
“Ordinary Shares” ordinary shares of 50p each in the capital of the Company
“Resolutions” the resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which appears at the end of this 
document
“Shareholders” holders of Ordinary Shares 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Morrison & Foerster (UK) LLP, CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, 
London EC2Y 9AW at 10:30 am on Thursday 16 August 2012, at which the following Resolutions will be proposed:
1. to receive and adopt the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012, and the Directors’ Report 
and the Independent Auditors’ Report on those accounts;
2. to receive and approve the Remuneration Report of the Directors for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012 and the Independent 
Auditors’ Report on the auditable part of the Remuneration Report;
3. to reappoint as a Director John Hamilton who, in accordance with the Articles, is required to retire by rotation at the Annual General 
Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for reappointment; 
4. to reappoint as a Director Francis Gugen who, in accordance with the Articles, is required to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offers himself for reappointment;
5. to reappoint as a Director Stephen Bowler who, in accordance with the Articles, having been appointed since the last annual general 
meeting is required to retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for reappointment;
6. to reappoint as a Director Robin Pinchbeck who, in accordance with the Articles, having been appointed since the last annual general 
meeting is required to retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for reappointment;
7. to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the auditors of the Company until the next annual general meeting;
8. to authorise the Directors to determine the level of the remuneration of the auditors;
9. to subdivide the issued share capital of the Company;
10. conditional upon Resolution 9 being passed, to grant the Directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company;
11. conditional upon Resolution 10 being passed, to grant the Directors the power to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights for certain shares 
in the capital of the Company; and
12. conditional upon Resolution 9 being passed, that the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make off-market purchases of 
all issued New Deferred Shares pursuant to the Contract (as defined in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting).
Resolutions 1 and 2 and 7 and 8 are self-explanatory. Information on the other Resolutions is provided below. Resolutions 1 to 10 are ordinary 
resolutions which require to be passed the approval of a simple majority of Shareholders present and voting in person or by proxy or authorised 
representative. On a show of hands each Shareholder so present has one vote, but should a poll be demanded, each such Shareholder has one 
vote for each share held by him or her. Resolutions 11 and 12 are special resolutions that require to be passed with the approval of 75% of such 
Shareholders, determined in the same way as for the ordinary resolutions.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
78
Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 3 – reappointment of John Hamilton as a Director
Mr Hamilton is liable to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting under the Articles, and offers himself for re-election. Having 
considered his re-election, the Nomination Committee considers that his performance remains effective, particularly having regard to his 
responsibilities as Non-Executive Director.
John is the Managing Director of Levine Capital management Advisors Limited, a UK incorporated company and interim chairman at President 
Petroleum Corporation Plc. John was previously the Group Finance Director of Imperial Energy Corporation Plc. Prior to joining Imperial Energy, 
John held senior positions at ABN AMRO.
Resolution 4 – reappointment of Francis Gugen as a Director
Mr Gugen is liable to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting under the Articles, and offers himself for re-election. Having considered 
his re-election, the Nomination Committee considers that his performance remains effective, particularly having regard to his responsibilities as 
Non-Executive Director. 
Francis is a founder and Non Executive Chairman and has over thirty years’ oil and gas industry experience. Between 1982 and 2000 he helped 
grow Amerada Hess in North West Europe, ultimately becoming CEO. Currently he is also non-executive chairman of Petroleum Geophysical 
Services ASA and of Chrysaor Limited and a board member of SBM Offshore NV, all involved in conventional oil & gas. Until 2006 he served as 
non-executive chairman of the start-up North Sea gas fields and pipelines operator CH4 Energy Limited, which was then disposed of for Euro 
224m. He is past president of the UK Offshore Operators Association, past chair of the industries representation on the UK Government Oil & 
Gas Task Force (Pilot) and past chair of the CBI’s Environmental Affairs Committee. Francis is a chartered accountant having worked for Arthur 
Andersen for eight years until 1982, principally as an oil and gas specialist. 
Resolution 5 – reappointment of Stephen Bowler as a Director
Mr Bowler was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in November 2011, which was subsequent to the last annual general meeting and, in 
accordance with the Articles, he must retire at this Annual General Meeting, but he offers himself for reappointment. Upon appointment, the 
Board considered that his experience made him a suitable candidate to complement the board. The Nomination Committee has considered his 
reappointment and considers that his performance remains effective, particularly having regard to his responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer. 
Steve started his career at Touche Ross, now Deloitte, where he qualified as a chartered accountant having spent time in both their audit and 
corporate finance divisions. In 1999, Steve joined ABN Amro Hoare Govett, now Jefferies Hoare Govett, where he acted as adviser and broker 
to a wide range of companies with a particular focus on E&P. Steve joined the Company on 1 November 2011.
Resolution 6 – reappointment of Robin Pinchbeck as a Director
Mr Pinchbeck was appointed as Non-Executive Director in July, which was subsequent to the last annual general meeting and, in accordance 
with the Articles, he must retire at this Annual General Meeting, but he offers himself for reappointment. Upon appointment, the Board 
considered that his experience made him a suitable candidate to complement the board. The Nomination Committee has considered his 
reappointment and considers that his performance remains effective, particularly having regard to his responsibilities as Non-Executive Director. 
Rob has 38 years of international experience in the oil and gas sector, having held leadership positions in both oil and oil-services sectors with 
BP, Atlantic Power, PGS and most recently, with Petrofac Limited where he founded and led the Operations Services division and subsequently 
served as Group Director of Strategy. Since 2003 he has held a range of Non-Executive positions, including Sondex plc, SLR Consulting Ltd and 
Enquest plc. He is currently a Non-Executive Director at AIM-listed Enteq Upstream plc and Non-Executive Chairman at the international oil 
services company Sparrows Offshore Ltd.
Resolution 9 – subdivision of share capital of the capital of the Company
The existing ordinary share capital comprises 162,204,909 Ordinary Shares of 50p each. Resolution 9 proposes that each of the Ordinary Shares 
of the Company be split into one New Ordinary Share and one New Deferred Share.
The New Ordinary Shares will continue to carry the same rights as attached to the existing Ordinary Shares (save for the reduction in nominal value).
The New Deferred Shares will not entitle the holder thereof to receive notice of or attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company or to 
receive a dividend or other distribution or to participate in any return on capital on a winding up other than the nominal amount paid on such 
shares following the distribution to holders of New Ordinary Shares in the Company of £1,000,000 per New Ordinary Share. Subject to the passing 
of the Resolutions, the Company will have the right to purchase all the issued New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate 
consideration of one penny. As such, the New Deferred Shares effectively have no value. Share certificates will not be issued in respect of the New 
Deferred Shares and it is the Company’s intention to immediately acquire all of the New Deferred Shares subject to the passing of Resolution 12.
The Company is taking this action pursuant to an obligation to Macquarie Bank Limited (“Macquarie”) contained in a warrant instrument 
dated 14 December 2011 (the “Warrant Instrument”). Pursuant to the Warrant Instrument, Macquarie was granted warrants entitling it to 
subscribe for 21,286,646 Ordinary Shares at a price of 55.8 pence per Ordinary Share. The Warrant Instrument also provided for cashless and 
nominal exercise mechanics. The efficiency of the nominal exercise mechanic is currently rendered of little economic use given the high nominal 
value of the Ordinary Shares; equally the Company was keen to avoid any use of the cashless exercise mechanic. Accordingly, it was agreed that 
if the Company reduced the nominal value of its Ordinary Shares to 10 pence or less, Macquarie would waive the right to a cashless exercise of 
the warrants. The passing of this Resolution will fulfil the Company’s obligations to Macquarie and have no economic effect on Shareholders.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
79 Proposed business of the Annual General Meeting continued
Resolution 10 – authority to issue shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 June 2011, the Directors were authorised, in accordance with section 551 of the 2006 Act, to allot 
Ordinary Shares, grant rights to subscribe or to convert any security into Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £26,720,620. 
This authority expires at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Subject to and conditionally upon the passing of Resolution 9, it is therefore proposed to revoke the existing authority and replace it with a new 
authority, granted under section 551 of the 2006 Act, which will allow the Directors to allot New Ordinary Shares and to grant rights to 
subscribe for or to convert any securities into New Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,406,830 representing 
approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company immediately after the passing of Resolution 9 and a further 
aggregate nominal amount of £5,406,830 representing approximately a further third of such issued share capital, which will be available only 
for rights issues and other pre-emptive issues of equity shares.
The proposal that the authority to allot new New Ordinary Shares shall extend to a further third of the issued share capital immediately after the 
passing of Resolution 9 is in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) which confine the use of this 
amount to rights issues only. The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority. However, if they do exercise the authority, the 
Directors intend to follow the emerging best practice as regards its use (including as regards Directors standing for re-election) as recommended 
by the ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Assuming the passing of the Resolution, the new authority will expire 15 months from the date of the passing of the Resolution or until the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting, if earlier, and will revoke all previous authorities to the extent that they have not already been 
utilised apart from other specific authorities taken in respect of outstanding warrants and options which will continue unaffected. The Directors 
have no present intention of issuing any share capital of the Company, but the passing of this Resolution will enable the Directors to take 
advantage of any opportunities which may arise.
Resolution 11 – disapplication of pre-emption rights
Section 561 of the 2006 Act contains pre-emption rights that require all equity shares which it is proposed to allot for cash to be offered to 
existing shareholders in proportion to existing shareholdings, unless a special resolution is passed to disapply such rights. Such rights do not 
apply to an issue otherwise than for cash, such as an issue in consideration of an acquisition. The Directors believe that these requirements are 
too restrictive and, it is proposed that, subject to the passing of Resolution 9, the Directors should be able to allot shares amounting to no more 
than an aggregate nominal amount of £2,433,073 representing approximately 15 per cent. of the equity share capital of the Company 
(including treasury shares) immediately after the passing of Resolution otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis.
In addition, it is customary to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights altogether, and substitute similar non-statutory provisions because, for 
technical reasons, the statutory rights are difficult to apply in certain circumstances. The proposed Resolution therefore provides that all allotments 
for cash in excess of the 15 per cent. limit, must be in the form of rights issues, open offers or other pre-emptive issues except for the one third of 
the existing issued share capital reserved only for rights issues in accordance with the previous Resolution, and free of the statutory constraints. The 
broadening of the proposed Resolution to include pre-emptive issues other than rights issues is a departure from the strict wording of the ABI 
guidelines which is limited to rights issues, which the Directors regard as too restrictive, especially as AIM companies normally make open offers 
and not rights issues. The above departures in Resolutions 10 and 11 from the strict wording of the ABI guidelines should not be taken to indicate 
that they are being disregarded, but rather that the proposed Resolutions are designed to provide greater flexibility for the Directors to determine 
the form of any future pre-emptive issues in the light of market conditions and practice, at the time such an issue may be proposed.
Resolution 12 – off-market purchase of New Deferred Shares
As outlined above in relation to Resolution 9, and subject to the passing of that Resolution, the Company will have the right to purchase all the 
issued New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate consideration of one penny. As such, the New Deferred Shares effectively 
have no value. Resolution 12 proposes that the Company be authorised to make off-market purchases of the New Deferred Shares pursuant to 
the terms of the Contract (as defined in the Notice of Annual General Meeting).
Action to be Taken
A Form of Proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting is enclosed. If you are a Shareholder you are advised to complete and return the form in 
accordance with the instructions printed on it so as to arrive at the Company’s registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, as soon as possible, but in any event no later than 10:30 am on 14 August 2012. Alternatively, you may 
e-mail or fax your completed proxy form by following the instructions in Note (3) to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Such an electronic appointment must also be made no later than 10:30 am on 14 August 2012.
The return of a Form of Proxy or the electronic appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending and voting at the Annual General 
Meeting if you so wish.
Recommendation
The Directors consider the Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be in the best interests of the Company and its 
Shareholders. Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend Shareholders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions, as they intend to do in 
respect of their own beneficial holdings comprising 38,684,847 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 23.85% of the issued share capital 
of the Company. In addition, Nexen Petroleum UK Limited, which holds 39,714,290 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 24.8% of the 
issued share capital, has agreed to vote in favour of all of the Resolutions.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
80
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of IGas Energy plc will be held at the offices of Morrison & Foerster (UK) LLP, CityPoint, 
One Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9AW at 10:30 am on Thursday 16 August 2012 to consider, and if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions 
of which Resolutions 1 to 10 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Ordinary business
1. To receive and adopt the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012 and the Directors’ Report, 
and the Independent Auditors’ Report on those accounts.
2. To receive and approve the Remuneration Report of the Directors for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012 and the Independent 
Auditors’ Report on the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
3. To reappoint as a Director, John Hamilton, who is retiring by rotation in accordance with Article 38 of the Company’s Articles of Association 
and who being eligible is offering himself for reappointment.
4. To reappoint as a Director, Francis Gugen, who is retiring by rotation in accordance with Article 38 of the Company’s Articles of Association 
and who being eligible is offering himself for reappointment.
5. To reappoint as a Director, Stephen Bowler, who is retiring by rotation in accordance with Article 33.2 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association and who being eligible is offering himself for reappointment.
6. To reappoint as a Director, Robin Pinchbeck, who is retiring by rotation in accordance with Article 33.2 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association and who being eligible is offering himself for reappointment.
7. To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company from the conclusion of this Meeting until the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
8. To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
9. That each of the existing Ordinary Shares of 50p each be subdivided into one ordinary share of 10p each in nominal value having the same 
rights as the existing Ordinary Shares and one deferred share of 40p each in nominal value having the rights and restrictions of deferred 
shares as set out in the Articles.
10. That, subject to and conditionally upon the passing of Resolution 9, in substitution for all existing authorities for the allotment of shares by 
the Directors, which are hereby revoked but without prejudice to any allotment, offer or agreement already made pursuant thereto, the 
Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(the “2006 Act”) to exercise all the powers of the Company to:
(A) allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into such shares (all of which transactions are 
hereafter referred as an allotment of “relevant securities”) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,406,830; and
(B) allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560(1) of the 2006 Act) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,406,830 in 
connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer which satisfies the conditions and may be subject to all or any of the exclusions 
specified in paragraph (B)(1) of the next following Resolution,
 in each case for a period expiring (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting) 15 months after the 
date of the passing of this Resolution or at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company following the passing of this 
Resolution, whichever occurs first, provided that the Company may before such expiry, variation or revocation make an offer or agreement 
which would or might require such relevant or equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, variation or revocation and the Directors may 
allot relevant or equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired or been varied 
or revoked.
Special business
11. That, subject to and conditionally upon the passing of Resolution 10, the Directors are hereby empowered pursuant to section 570 of the 
2006 Act to allot equity securities (as defined by section 560 of the 2006 Act) for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 
as if section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that such power:
(A) shall, subject to the continuance of the authority conferred by Resolution 10, expire 15 months after the passing of this Resolution or at 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company following the passing of this Resolution, whichever occurs first, but 
may be previously revoked or varied from time to time by special resolution but so that the Company may before such expiry, revocation 
or variation make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, revocation or 
variation and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such power had not expired or been 
revoked or varied; and
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
81 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
(B) shall be limited to:
(1) the allotment of equity securities of up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,406,830 pursuant to a rights issue, open offer, scrip 
dividend scheme or other pre-emptive offer or scheme which is in each case in favour of holders of Ordinary Shares and any other 
persons who are entitled to participate in such issue, offer or scheme where the equity securities offered to each such holder and 
other person are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held or deemed to be held by them 
for the purposes of their inclusion in such issue, offer or scheme on the record date applicable thereto, but subject to such exclusions 
or other arrangements as the Directors may deem fit or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems 
under the laws of any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory, shares being 
represented by depositary receipts, directions from any holders of shares or other persons to deal in some other manner with their 
respective entitlements or any other matter whatever which the Directors consider to require such exclusions or other arrangements 
with the ability for the Directors to allot equity securities and sell relevant shares not taken up to any person as they may think fit; and
(2) the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (B)(1) up to an aggregate maximum nominal 
amount of £2,433,073.
12. That, subject to and conditionally upon the passing of Resolution 9, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make 
off-market purchases (within the meaning of section 163(1) of the 2006 Act) of all issued New Deferred Shares (being 162,204,909 New 
Deferred Shares) pursuant to the terms of a draft contract produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of 
identification (the “Contract”) the terms of which Contract are hereby approved for the purposes of section 163 of the 2006 Act generally. 
The authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of fifteen months after the passing of this Resolution or the close of the next 
annual general meeting of the Company.
20 July 2012
By Order of the Board
MoFo Secretaries Limited
Company Secretary
Registered Office:
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AT
NOTES
(1) A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him. A proxy need not also be a member. A Form of 
Proxy is enclosed.
(2) The Form of Proxy, if used, and the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a certified copy of such power or authority most be lodged at 
Computershare Investor Services PLC at The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or, (during normal business hours) by hand, to Computershare Investor Services PLC at The 
Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting.
(3) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending in person at the meeting and voting should he or she wish to do so.
(4) The Form of the Proxy must be signed and dated by the shareholder or his/her attorney duly authorised in writing, if the shareholder is a company, it may execute under its common 
seal, by the signature of a director and its secretary or two directors or other authorised signatories in the name of the company or by the signature of a duly authorised officer or 
attorney. In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or in proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders 
and for this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect to the joint holding. Names of all joint holders should 
be stated.
(5) Members who hold Ordinary Shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Company’s register of members by 6.00 p.m. on 14 August 2012 in order to 
be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting. Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of Ordinary Shares in the Company held at the time, if the meeting is adjourned, 
the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 48 hours before the date fixed for the 
adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members after such times shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
(6) In the absence of instructions, the person appointed proxy may vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit on the Resolutions and, unless instructed otherwise, the person appointed 
proxy may also vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit on any other business (including amendments to any Resolution) which may properly come before the meeting.
(7) If you wish to appoint as your proxy someone other than the Chairman of the meeting, cross out the words “the Chairman of the meeting’ in the Form of Proxy and write on the 
dotted line the full name and address of your proxy. The change should be initialed.
(8) If two or more valid Forms of Proxy are delivered in respect of the same Ordinary Share, the one which was delivered last (regardless of its date or the date of its execution) will be 
valid, to the exclusion of any ones previously delivered.
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
82
Notice of Annual General Meeting Glossary
£ The lawful currency of the United Kingdom
1C Low estimate or low case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
2C Best estimate or mid case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
3C High estimate or high case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
AIM AIM market of the London Stock Exchange
Bcf Billions of standard cubic feet
CBM Coal bed methane
Contingent 
Recoverable  
Resource
Contingent Recoverable Resource estimates are prepared in accordance with the Petroleum Resources Management System 
(PRMS), an industry recognised standard. A Contingent Recoverable Resource is defined as discovered potentially recoverable 
quantities of hydrocarbons where there is no current certainty that it will be commercially viable to produce any portion  
of the contingent resources evaluated. Contingent Recoverable Resources are further divided into three status groups: 
marginal, sub-marginal, and undetermined. IGas’ Contingent Recoverable Resources all fall into the undetermined group. 
Undetermined is the status group where it is considered premature to clearly define the ultimate chance of commerciality.
All amounts shown in this annual report have been compiled by statistical aggregation
DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change
GIIP Gas initially in place
IGL The Company’s subsidiary holding all its licences
MMboe Millions of barrels of oil equivalent
MMscfd Millions of standard cubic feet per day
PEDL United Kingdom petroleum exploration and development licence
Scf Standard cubic feet
Tcf Trillions of standard cubic feet of gas
UK United Kingdom
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
83 Notes
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
84
Financial statements General information
Directors
F R Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman
A P Austin – Chief Executive Officer
J Blaymires – Chief Operating Officer
S Bowler – Chief Financial Officer
R J Armstrong – Non-Executive
J Bryant – Non-Executive
J A Hamilton – Non-Executive
R Pinchbeck – Non-Executive
Company Secretary
Mofo Secretaries Limited
Citypoint
One Ropemaker Street
London EC2Y 9AW
Nominated Adviser and Broker
NOMAD and Joint Broker
Jeffries Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
Joint Broker
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
Public Relations
Kreab Gavin Anderson
Scandinavian House
2–6 Cannon Street
London
EC3M 6XJ
Bankers
Macquarie Bank Limited
Ropemaker Place
28 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9HD
Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
Registered Office
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AT
Copies of Reports and Accounts
Further copies of this Annual report and accounts can be obtained 
from the Registered Office of IGas Energy plc (IGas Energy). Registered Office
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AT
+44 (0)20 7993 9899
www.igasplc.com
 
Financial and Public Relations
Kreab & Gavin Anderson and Company
Scandinavian House
2-6 Cannon Street
London 
EC4M 6XJ
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7074 1800
