 Annual report and accounts 2013/14
UNLOCKING
BRITAIN’S  
ENERGY
POTENTIAL IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
“We strive for continuous 
improvement in informing  
and educating, listening  
and innovating.”
WELCOME
30 years
IGas has more than thirty years’ 
experience of successfully and  
safely extracting oil and gas  
onshore in the UK
161
Number of staff
Who we are
IGas Energy plc is a leading onshore oil and  
gas exploration and production business, with 
licences to explore for oil and gas across the 
country including the North West, East Midlands, 
the Weald Basin in southern England and the 
northern coastal area of the Inner Moray Firth  
in Scotland.
The business has more than thirty years’ 
experience of successfully and safely extracting  
oil and gas onshore in Britain, which has one  
of the strictest regulatory regimes in the world.
We are a British business and employ 161 staff 
around the country, many of whom live and  
work in the areas in which we operate.
Creating shared prosperity
We believe in contributing to Britain’s energy 
independence for generations to come.
We are committed 
to maintaining close 
and responsive 
relationships with 
the communities  
in which we 
operate and we 
have a long track 
record of engaging 
with local residents.
We are committed 
to the environment 
and providing 
safe and healthy 
working conditions 
for our employees 
and contractors. 
We have operated 
our own Community 
Fund for a number 
of years which 
has committed 
to funding local 
projects that 
are charitable, 
educational  
or benevolent  
in purpose.
£ IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
01
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT / HIGHLIGHTS
Financial highlights
1,5
Revenues of £75.9m (2013: £68.3m)
 
Total Production c.1.0 mmboe (2013: c.0.9 mmboe)
 
EBITDA
2
 of £34.3m (2013: £32.3m)
 
Underlying operating profit
3
 of £20.3m (2013: £22.1m)
 
Net profit/(loss) before tax of £2.3m (2013: (£6.0m))
 
Net cash from operating activities £25.2m (2013: £28.9m)
 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2014 were  
£28.3m (2013: £9.8m) 
 
Net debt of £80.4m
4
 (2013: £77.4m)
 
Completed issue of US$165m secured bonds in  
April 2013, and issued US$30m unsecured bonds  
in December
Operating highlights
Farm-out agreement with Total E&P UK Limited (“Total”) 
signed, under which Total acquired a 40% interest in  
PEDL 139/140 Licences. Total will fund a fully carried 
work programme of up to US$46.5m, with a minimum 
commitment of US$19.5m. IGas was appointed operator  
on the Licences with an increase in equity interest to 14.5%.
Exploration well successfully completed at Barton Moss, 
Eccles. Full laboratory analysis of the cores is underway,  
the results of which are expected in the autumn.
Following completion of seismic acquisition for PEDL 
139/140 we are now implementing a programme to  
acquire c.100km
2
 of 3-D seismic data in the North West  
with a view to firming up several potential exploration  
and development sites in the area.
Acquisition of Caithness from Caithness Petroleum plc 
for £7.9m (including assumed borrowings and closing 
adjustments) which was financed by issuing 7,488,301 
Ordinary Shares. 
Progress on ‘Chase the Barrels’ initiative continues with  
a focus on sustainable long term production enhancements.
Post year end proposed acquisition of Dart Energy Limited 
valuing the total share capital of Dart, on announcement,  
at approximately A$211.5m on a fully diluted basis  
(being equivalent to £117.1m).
For more information visit:
www.igasplc.com
Notes
1 On 28 February 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of PR Singleton from Providence 
Resources plc and therefore the 2013 results reflect one month’s contribution from PR Singleton.
2 EBITDA relates to earnings before gains/(losses) on oil price derivatives, net finance costs, tax, 
depletion, depreciation and amortisation, acquisition costs and impairment of exploration and 
evaluation assets.
3 Underlying operating profit excludes the gains/(losses) on oil price derivatives, acquisition costs  
and impairment of exploration and evaluation assets. 
4 Net debt is borrowings less cash and restricted cash.
5 On 6 December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of Caithness Oil Limited  
and therefore the 2014 results reflect four months’ contribution from Caithness Oil.
Highlights 01
At a Glance 02
Marketplace 04
Areas of Operation 08
Assets overview: Gas from shale 10
Assets overview: Producing assets 12
Chairman’s Statement 14
Q&A with the Chief Executive Officer 16
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 18
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 22
Risks and Uncertainties 25
Corporate Social Responsibility 26
 
Board of Directors 30
Corporate Governance  32
Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Directors’ Report  38
 
Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities  
in Relation to the Group Financial  
Statements and Annual Report 40
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of IGas Energy plc 41
Consolidated Income Statement 42 
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 42
Consolidated Balance Sheet 43
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 44
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45 
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes 46
Parent Company Financial  
Statements – Directors’ Statement  
of Responsibilities in Respect Thereof 78
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of IGas Energy plc 79
Parent Company Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 80
Parent Company Balance Sheet 81
Parent Company Statement  
of Changes in Equity 82 
Parent Company Cash Flow Statement 83
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes 84
Oil and Gas Reserves 102 
Glossary 103 
General Information 104 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
02
STRATEGIC REPORT / AT A GLANCE
OUR PURPOSE
Energy is the foundation of our economy:  
from heating our homes, hospitals and  
schools to manufacturing and agriculture,  
energy is a vital part of our daily lives. 
At IGas we are at the heart of diversifying Britain’s energy  
mix and reducing our reliance on imported oil and gas,  
as North Sea production continues to decline. 
IGas is extremely well positioned for the future as we  
move closer to unlocking Britain’s as yet untapped oil  
and gas resources.
IGas is committed to playing an active role in developing  
the onshore supply chain and to support the growth 
opportunity of shale gas particularly for British companies. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
03
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have a top-quality management 
team with the operational and technical 
capability to deliver our strategy. 
Our Values
We are fully committed to preserving  
the environment and providing safe  
and healthy working conditions. 
The public, and our neighbours  
in particular, may have questions  
about how our activities affect their 
How we plan to deliver
Our strategy is aimed at building a material onshore energy company in Britain  
in collaboration with the communities in which we operate. We believe that  
supporting and sustaining these communities is fundamental to delivering more  
domestic production. The Company is focused in three areas;
Britain’s current energy challenges
IGas is committed 
to playing an active 
role in developing 
the onshore supply 
chain and delivery 
mechanisms to 
support the growth 
opportunity of shale 
gas particularly for 
UK companies.
Dependency on  
gas imports
62%
Imported energy  
supplied to the UK  
in 2013
1
Coal  
accounted for 
36.3%
Of UK electricity 
generation in 2013
3
Decline in production 
from the North Sea 
38%
Over the last three 
years production has 
fallen by 38%
2
environment and we are committed to 
answering those questions. We operate  
in many sensitive areas and are committed 
to preserving our landscapes and to 
working closely with planning and all  
other statutory authorities and local 
people to minimise the environmental 
impact of our operations.
Most of all, we are committed to 
consultation with our neighbours  
and interested parties.
Our 
Strategy
Acquiring 
complementary 
asset portfolios
Developing the wider potential in  
our portfolio through a drilling 
programme to explore, appraise and 
develop our assets and thereby create 
long-term value for stakeholders
Increasing  
our current oil  
and gas production  
by maximising  
the potential  
     from our existing 
assets 
1
 Source: DECC: UK Energy Statistics 2014.
2
 Source: Oil & Gas UK Activity Survey 2014.
3
 Source: DECC: Energy trends and prices 2013. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
04
STRATEGIC REPORT / MARKETPLACE
Around 2,000 wells have now been  
drilled onshore in Britain with about  
10% of them having been hydraulically 
fractured. There are currently around  
120 producing sites with c.300 operating 
wells producing in excess of 20,000 barrels 
of oil equivalent per day or about 1%  
of Britain’s consumption. Approximately 
250,000 barrels per day of produced  
water is disposed of safely under permits 
from the Environment Agency (EA)  
and Scottish Environment Protection  
Agency (SEPA). 
As an island nation, Britain has long  
relied on supplementing its domestic  
energy reserves with imports from  
abroad. However, these imports also  
leave our economy vulnerable to forces  
such as changing commodity prices,  
as well as political instability in other  
key energy-producing regions  
of the world.
The decline in production from the North 
Sea saw Britain become a net importer  
of gas since 2004. IGas believes that  
energy diversity is central to Britain’s 
stability and security in the 21st Century.
Recent technological innovations can  
unlock untapped resources that have  
the potential to contribute to Britain’s 
energy independence for generations  
to come. By combining our considerable 
experience in onshore operations with  
a proven commitment to safety and the 
environment, IGas is well positioned  
to help unlock this national resource, 
delivering direct benefits to local 
communities as well as making a significant 
contribution to our economy and energy 
diversity at a national scale, as well  
as contributing to decarbonisation. 
The British industry
The onshore oil and gas industry in Britain 
has been in existence for over 150 years. 
Before the First World War, Britain acquired 
almost all its oil and gas from outside the 
country. Oil was discovered in Scotland in 
1851 followed by gas in England in 1896 
during construction of Heathfield rail station 
in Sussex, when natural water wells were 
being dug. The gas discovered was used  
to power the lights for the station and  
this gas was sourced from shale rock.
During both world wars the need for  
Britain to produce its own oil to help  
the war effort rather than rely on  
imports became of real importance  
to the Government and legislation  
was introduced to enable companies  
to explore for hydrocarbons  
more readily.
In 1973, the Wytch Farm Oilfield in  
Eastern Dorset was opened in an area  
of outstanding natural beauty and today  
it is the largest oilfield in Western Europe.  
At around the same time, it is believed  
the first hydraulic fracture in Britain  
was performed.
Onshore oil and gas activity started  
to accelerate again after the 1979 oil  
crisis. As prices rose, domestic production  
became increasingly important.
Game changer for Britain
Britain has a long heritage of onshore and offshore oil and gas production that dates 
back to 1851. Today there is a large body of evidence suggesting that natural gas from 
shale is a significant resource for Britain that can be extracted cleanly and safely.
“In 2000, shale gas 
provided only 1%  
of US natural gas 
production; by 2011,  
it was over 34%
1
.”
“The shale industry 
supported 1.7m jobs  
in 2012 and contributed 
US$62bn in state and 
federal tax revenue
1
.”
1
 Source: PWC Report: Shale energy: A potential game-changer: www.pwc.com/en_US/us/industrial-products/publications/assets/pwc-shale-energy-transportation-logistics-impact.pdf
2
 Source: EY “Getting ready for UK shale gas Report” commissioned by UKOOG (April 2014): www.ukoog.org.uk/images/ukoog/pdfs/Getting_ready_for_UK_shale2_gas_FINAL2022.04.14.pdf IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
05
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At the end of April, the Energy and  
Climate Change Select Committee  
published their report, “The Impact  
of Shale Gas on Energy Markets”.  
The report highlighted the contribution 
shale gas could make to Britain’s energy 
security, helping to limit future energy  
price rises and its contribution to tax 
revenues, as well as focusing on the 
necessity of community engagement.
In June, DECC announced a benefits  
package for communities near new shale 
gas drilling sites. Under the proposals 
operators will offer local communities 
£100,000 per hydraulically fractured well  
at the exploratory stage, as well as 1%  
of revenues once sites become commercial, 
potentially worth several million pounds  
per site.
In October 2013, Public Health England 
published a report showing there is  
a low risk to public health of properly  
run and regulated shale gas extraction.
The Chancellor used his Autumn  
Statement in December to announce  
a new fiscal regime for the onshore oil  
and gas sector, which was subsequently 
enacted in the 2014 Finance Bill. The 
regime reduces the tax rate on a portion 
of a company’s profits from 62% to 30% 
to reflect the challenges of shale gas 
exploration. Companies will receive  
an allowance equal to 75% of capital  
spent on projects. 
Last October saw DECC publish  
a roadmap to provide an indicative  
overview of the processes involved  
in permitting onshore exploratory work  
in oil and gas development, onshore  
in Britain. The roadmap highlighted  
the extensive legislation and regulation,  
and identified required actions and  
best practices at various stages.
In January, DECC announced that  
Councils will be able to keep  
100% of business rates generated  
from onshore gas extraction sites  
bringing onshore gas into line  
with renewables projects. 
Estimated resources 
In June 2013, The British Geological Survey 
(BGS) in association with The Department 
of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) 
estimated that the area between Wrexham 
and Blackpool in the west and Nottingham 
and Scarborough in the east contained 
1,329 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) (in the mid 
case) of shale gas in place.
According to figures from the Institute  
of Directors (IoD), Britain’s shale gas 
resources could supply a third of our  
annual gas needs and IGas believes that 
within its own licence area, covering 300 
square miles between Manchester and 
Liverpool, there is likely to be in the region 
of 102 Tcf of gas in place (mid case). Even  
if only a fraction of this can be recovered, 
with Britain’s total gas use running at  
3 Tcf a year, it is clear this is a significant 
national resource.
Since the year end, BGS has issued  
a report which estimates the resources  
of the Jurassic shales of the Weald.  
The area includes large parts of Sussex, 
Hampshire, Surrey, and Kent, and covers 
the South Downs National Park and several 
Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The 
report concludes there is approximately  
4.4 billion barrels of shale oil (mid case)  
in the Weald.
Political and regulatory update
The financial year began with further 
recognition from the British Government  
of the onshore oil and gas industry’s 
potential when, as part of his 2013 Budget, 
the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced  
a package of measures designed to facilitate 
investment and support the development 
of Britain’s shale gas industry. The areas 
consulted on included community benefits, 
planning and taxation.
“The US experience 
indicates that the 
development of shale 
gas can help improve 
security of supply, and 
increase employment 
and investment  
that cascade into  
other sectors
2
.” 
“£33bn estimated 
spend to bring UK 
shale wells into 
production between 
2016 and 2032
2
.” 
Further information can be found at
www.ukoog.org.uk/images/ukoog/pdfs/Getting_ready_for_UK_shale2_gas_FINAL2022.04.14.pdf IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
06
STRATEGIC REPORT / MARKETPLACE CONTINUED
Our regulatory environment
Britain has one of the world’s most stringent regulatory 
regimes for onshore and offshore oil and gas extraction. 
Given Britain’s long history of onshore oil 
and gas production, the regulatory regime 
the industry complies with is one of the 
world’s most stringent.
Who regulates the onshore oil and  
gas industry? 
We are regulated by a number of statutory 
bodies, including the Environment Agency 
(EA) in England, the Scottish Environment 
Protection Agency (SEPA) in Scotland and 
Natural Resources Wales (NRW) in Wales, 
the Health and Safety Executive (HSE)  
and the Department of Energy and  
Climate Change (DECC).
Before drilling a shale well an operator 
who, like IGas, has committed to United 
Kingdom Onshore Operator Group 
(UKOOG) guidelines, must have: 
• A petroleum licence from DECC
• Permission from the Coal Authority
• Completed an Environmental Risk 
Assessment (ERA) Environmental  
Impact Assessment (EIA) even  
if not required by regulation
• Obtained all the appropriate 
environmental permits from  
the regional Environment Agency  
including Mining Waste Permits
Further information can be found at
www.ukoog.org.uk/environment/regulation
How the  
industry is  
regulated
Licensing rounds
Planning
Operati onal phases
Regulatory approvals
EA/ SEPA, HSE & DECC
Operator
Local Authority
DECC
• Notified the HSE of the well design  
and operation plans
• Ensured a complete examination  
of well design and construction by  
an independent and competent person 
(known as an independent well examiner)
• Received planning permission from the 
Minerals Planning Authority (MPA),  
local council or equivalent
• Served notification of an intention  
to drill on the EA under S199 of the  
Water Resources Act, 1991 
• Apply for consent to drill from DECC, 
including submission of a hydraulic 
fracturing plan if required
• Advised the British Geological Survey
In addition, the industry is governed by  
14 separate pieces of European legislation.
There are a significant number of days  
of statutory public consultation. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
07
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key benefits for Britain
The benefits of a well regulated onshore oil and gas extraction 
industry are significant. A viable sector has the potential to 
help Britain meet carbon emission targets, generate increased 
revenue for Her Majesty’s Treasury and create a leading 
onshore oil and gas supply chain.
One of the key drivers for diversifying 
the British energy market through the 
exploitation of the country’s onshore oil 
and gas reserves will be to increase energy 
security and thus become less dependent 
on imported gas. While establishing secure 
and reliable sources for natural gas globally 
becomes increasingly complex, a productive 
and thriving onshore British oil and gas 
industry could mitigate this challenge.
The sector could generate upwards of 
64,500 direct, indirect, and induced jobs
1
, 
many of which will be highly-skilled with 
above-UK average salaries. These jobs 
wouldn’t be concentrated in any one area 
but would be spread across Britain.
UK energy  
production by source
64,500
A 64,500 jobs opportunity and  
a requirement to grow skills
£17bn
Specialised equipment and skills  
for hydraulic fracturing totalling 
£17bn. This sector provides  
a significant opportunity for 
UK-based oilfield service and 
manufacturing companies to  
get involved
1 
Source: EY “Getting ready for UK shale gas Report” commissioned by UKOOG (April 2014):  
www.ukoog.org.uk/images/ukoog/pdfs/Getting_ready_for_UK_shale2_gas_FINAL2022.04.14.pdf
29%
16%
47%
1%
1%
6%
29% COAL
47% NATURAL GAS
16% NUCLEAR
6% RENEWABLE*
1% HYDROELECTRIC
1% OIL
* Excluding Hydro 
Energy sources UK 2010. Source: World Bank
At a more local level, however, it is our 
strong belief that the local communities  
that host our sites should benefit. As such, 
we adhere to the UKOOG community 
benefits scheme. This sees some of the 
revenue generated being reinvested into 
local communities to support a variety  
of projects and improvements.
Alongside the direct and indirect  
benefits, developers will also be paying 
increased business rates as a result  
of their operations, 100% of which will 
go directly back to local councils, again 
benefiting local communities. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
08
Key milestones
2007
IGas listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market of the 
London Stock Exchange.
2009
IGas started commercial  
sales of electricity generated 
from CBM.
2011
Acquisition of Star Energy and 
equity fundraising of £20.6m.
Signed an agreement with 
Nexen Petroleum UK Limited  
to acquire Nexen Exploration  
UK Limited, making our Group 
the operator and sole owner  
of all our licences.
STRATEGIC REPORT / AREAS OF OPERATION
We explore and develop gas and oil reserves at 
onshore locations in the North West of England, 
the East Midlands, the Weald Basin in Southern 
England and the northern coastal area of the 
Inner Moray Firth in Scotland.
A FOCUSED
PORTFOLIO
08 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
09
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2012
Acquisition of Singleton  
from Providence Resources.
Ince Marshes well drilled.
2013
Commenced exploration  
well at Barton Moss.
Acquisition of  
Caithness Petroleum.
2014
Farm out agreement with  
Total for work programme  
of up to US$46.5m.
East Midlands
c.50% current production
17 oil fields
80 sites
The East Midlands area is comprised  
of two primary production centres:  
Welton and Gainsborough.
The Welton area is made up of six fields  
and a gathering centre where produced  
oil, gas and water are separated. The 
produced oil is typically transported to 
Conoco Immingham via road tanker. Gas  
is used for power generation and exported 
to the National Grid and produced water  
is pumped for reinjection.
Weald Basin
c.50% current production
11 oil fields
18 sites 
There are 11 fields ranging from 
Stockbridge, near Winchester, in the west  
to Palmers Wood near Gatwick in the east 
and now includes the Singleton field. The 
area has produced more than 21 million 
barrels of oil to date. 
Oil is collected by tanker from our sites  
and transported to our processing  
facilities at Holybourne. Here we have 
storage for more than 20,000 barrels  
and a rail terminal allowing us to transport 
our products to local refineries by train.  
We also handle oil on behalf of other 
operators in the area, providing us with  
an additional revenue stream.
North West
In the North West we have seven  
onshore licences, located in the counties  
of Cheshire, Flintshire and Staffordshire,  
that contain the Carboniferous Coal 
Measures and Bowland-Hodder shales. 
The total area under licence in this region 
is 1,020km
2
 (approximately 252 k.acres), 
where we own 100% working interest  
in all licences. 
Caithness, Scotland
In September 2013, we acquired  
Caithness Petroleum Limited,  
a privately-owned, British independent 
oil and gas exploration and production 
company. We currently produce  
around 100 bopd from a single well.
East  
Midlands
Weald 
Basin
North  
West/
Staffs
Caithness,  
Scotland
09 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
10
STRATEGIC REPORT / ASSETS OVERVIEW
How it works
EYES ON  
THE FUTURE
Ground water table
Shale
Limestone
Sandstone
Coal measures
Well
Shale fractures
Shard
x6.5 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
11
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The best way to ensure security of supply  
is to source energy domestically. Much  
of the natural gas we currently consume  
is sourced from a range of locations 
including Norway, Russia and Qatar.  
With a long heritage of onshore oil and gas 
production dating back to 1851, the safe 
and responsible exploitation of Britain’s 
onshore natural gas resources has the 
potential to be central in improving  
energy independence.
The economic case
In addition to achieving energy 
independence, other significant benefits  
of developing Britain’s onshore oil and  
gas industry are economic. According to  
the recent EY Report, “Getting ready for  
UK shale gas”
1
, commissioned by UKOOG,  
the potential opportunities include:
• UK-based oil field service and 
manufacturing companies providing 
specialised equipment and skills for 
hydraulic fracturing totalling £17bn
• A £4.1bn waste, storage and 
transportation requirement
• A £2.3bn steel requirement in Britain
• The potential for a new £1.65bn  
rig manufacturing industry
• A new market for existing  
British businesses
• A 64,500 jobs opportunity and  
a requirement to grow skills
What is shale gas?
Shale oil and gas are hydrocarbons 
contained within underground shale  
beds, a type of sedimentary rock laid  
down millions of years ago. This shale  
rock acts as the hydrocarbon source rock. 
Shales containing the right quantities  
of gas for extraction have a number of 
common properties such as being rich  
in organic material and being in an area  
of high heat and pressure which has  
allowed oil to be converted into gas.
Conventional gas reservoirs are formed 
when shale gas migrates into more 
permeable rocks from which it can  
naturally flow.
The gas can be held in natural fractures, 
open pore spaces or absorbed into organic 
material. Shale rock doesn’t usually have the 
right permeability to allow significant flow 
of gas. Unlike drilling into a conventional 
reservoir where there is at least some flow 
of oil and gas immediately, an accumulation 
of shale oil or gas is produced directly from 
the source rock and must be stimulated  
in some way before it will begin to flow.
Shale gas has been produced for many  
years from places with natural fractures  
but hydraulic fracturing allows the fractures 
to be extended and to stimulate the oil  
or gas either to begin or continue flowing.
Why do we need natural gas from shale?
Britain’s energy mix is changing. Coal-fired 
power plants are being closed to meet 
carbon emission targets and oil and gas 
production from the North Sea is declining. 
The growth in renewable energy sources 
has gone someway to fill the energy gap 
but natural gas remains key to ensuring 
that Britain continues to meet its base-
load requirements whilst enjoying reliable 
and affordable energy with a lower carbon 
footprint than coal. 
Gas from shale
“If safely and economically extracted, shale gas can develop a new onshore  
gas industry, which provides local employment and ensures a security  
of supply for the UK
1
.”
3 Tcf
Britain’s total gas use 
running at 3 Tcf a year
102 Tcf
IGas believes that within its North 
West licence area there is up  
to 102 Tcf of shale gas (mid case) 
1 
Source: EY “Getting ready for UK shale gas Report” commissioned by UKOOG (April 2014):  
www.ukoog.org.uk/images/ukoog/pdfs/Getting_ready_for_UK_shale2_gas_FINAL2022.04.14.pdf IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
12
We have continued to pursue well 
interventions to enhance performance, 
examples include, workover of Stockbridge 
and Storrington wells to enhance  
production and install downhole gauges 
(STOR-1) to monitor reservoir pressure  
and optimise offtake. Similar activities  
have been conducted to optimise jet  
pump performance at various locations. 
We continue to look for new innovative 
technology applications that may be  
of benefit, notable examples include the  
re-perforation of Glentworth-11. Other 
examples include running perforating tools 
on rods which have significant cost savings 
over more traditional approaches.
We have also successfully trialled the 
installation of a wax reduction tool in  
a number of wells. The results from the  
long Clawson C2 well suggest that we can 
reduce the need for “hot washing” from 
twenty six times per annum to just four 
which results in a reduction of deferred 
production of some 2,000 bbls per annum. 
This trial is to be extended to other wells 
which have a similar waxing issues.  
If successful, this will increase well up-time 
and reduce the need for costly workovers 
and associated deferred production.
The programme of work for the installation 
of technology to optimise rod pumping wells 
using Rod Pump Off Controllers (RPOC)  
has continued. To date we have installed  
49 systems out of the initial tranche of 50.  
In addition to increased well uptime due  
to lower rod wear/breakages and associated 
operating expenditure savings, we have  
also seen a significant reduction in deferred 
production. Due to the success of the initial 
installations, we plan to extend this initiative 
across the portfolio where appropriate.
The pilot water flood projects at Welton 
and Beckingham are progressing well with 
surface infrastructure enabling works largely 
completed (intelligent pigging of existing 
lines, pipeline hydraulics completed, Project 
HAZOP , modifications to manifolds and 
equipment orders placed). The completions 
in the candidate water injection wells have 
been installed and commissioning of the 
plant is expected in the second half of the 
2014/15 financial year.
Current production
The average net production in the twelve 
months to 31 March 2014 was 2,783 boepd 
(2013: 2,470 boepd).
Our production is evenly spread between 
our fields in the East Midlands in the North 
and the Weald Basin in the South. Following 
the Caithness acquisition oil production 
from the Lybster field has been average  
over 100 bopd.
We continue to identify opportunities  
to enhance recovery and production from 
our conventional fields. Our ‘Chase the 
Barrels’ initiative and other technical  
studies have demonstrated the potential  
to add new production.
Our total conventional reserves and 
resources have been independently 
assessed by Senergy this year as  
23.9 mmboe (2P and 2C). In comparison,  
the assessment at the time of 2012 CPR  
by Senergy was 16.4 mmboe (2P and 2C). 
The 2014 figures include the 2P reserves 
and resources in relation to the acquisitions 
of Singleton (including the Baxter’s Copse 
field) and Caithness assessed by Senergy.
The Doe Green pilot Coal Bed Methane 
(“CBM”) site continues to produce gas  
which is used to generate electricity and  
is then exported to the National Grid. 
Chase the Barrels
Progress on our ‘Chase the Barrels’ 
initiative has continued with activity to 
realise incremental production and opex 
optimisation. This has been augmented  
by an increasing focus on more sustainable 
long term production enhancements such 
as the pilot water flood initiatives at Welton 
and Beckingham. It is hoped that success  
in these areas will help lift reserves.
During the period, the technical team 
continued to evaluate a number of 
opportunities to increase oil production 
through relatively low cost well intervention 
and production enhancement operations. 
Based on comprehensive subsurface  
studies the most attractive short term  
well entry opportunities, including for 
example re-perforations, water shut offs  
and recompletions were identified, ranked  
and some have been implemented.
Producing assets
IGas currently has 30 fields with 117 oil and gas wells in Britain, 
producing predominantly oil.
47 mboe
The East Midlands area under  
licence consists of 17 oil fields and  
80 sites and has produced more  
than 47 million barrels of oil to date
21 mboe
Based in southern England, the Weald 
Basin consists of 11 fields within  
which there are 18 production sites  
and 21 million barrels of oil have  
been produced to date
There are a number of stranded gas 
monetisation projects that are being 
evaluated including Albury. Planning 
permission was granted earlier this year  
for a change of use for the Albury site, 
including the potential installation of  
a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant. This  
will allow natural gas production from 
the site to be compressed into LNG for 
transportation off-site. There are many uses 
for LNG, including as an alternative road 
fuel. Advanced commercial negotiations are 
currently nearing completion for the offtake 
of the LNG from the site, as a precursor  
to formal project sanction. The potential  
for using this mini LNG technology 
elsewhere in the portfolio as a means  
of monetising stranded gas is something  
we are actively pursuing and evaluating.
Similar studies are underway to assess  
how to monetise the gas potential  
at Lybster. Preliminary studies indicate  
a solution involving Compressed Natural 
Gas. A project team to advance this  
has been established.
Field development studies continue  
aimed at increasing ultimate recovery  
and reserves and identifying infill well 
drilling opportunities. 
STRATEGIC REPORT / ASSETS OVERVIEW CONTINUED IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
13
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
SUCCESSFUL
ENERGY  
PRODUCER IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
14
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“Our vision is to be  
the leading onshore  
independent British  
company developing  
and producing  
discovered hydrocarbons.”
I am delighted to report on a year of 
material developments for both IGas  
and the wider onshore oil and gas industry 
in Britain.
Production has been in line with budget,  
we have acquired an additional producing 
asset in Scotland, successfully completed  
an exploration well in the North West and 
have a significant forward programme for 
both our existing producing assets as well  
as shale and coal bed methane appraisal.
During the course of the year there  
has been meaningful progress made  
in developing the regulatory and  
associated framework to support shale  
gas development. The Government has  
now put its full support behind shale gas 
and there is a broad cross party consensus 
in favour of its development in Britain.  
As part of this progress the Government  
is putting in place a considerable number  
of measures whereby local communities  
will benefit directly from shale activity, 
starting at the exploratory phase and 
increasing very substantially in the event  
of commercial production.
Recent studies in Britain by a number 
of eminent institutions and individuals 
including the Royal Society and Royal 
Academy of Engineering, Public Health 
England, the Chartered Institute of Water 
and Environmental Management and 
Professor David Mackay and Dr Tim Stone 
have all concluded that any potential risks 
associated with hydraulic fracturing can be 
managed in a properly regulated industry.
Financial results
Revenues attributable to oil and gas 
production during the period were  
£75.9m (2013: £68.3m) on production  
of c.1.0 mmboe (2013: c.0.9 mmboe). 
EBITDA
2
 for the year to 31st March 2014 
was £34.3m (2013: £32.3m) and we made  
a net profit of £2.3m against a loss in 2013 
of £6.0m.
The Company ended the period with 
£28.3m of cash and cash equivalents  
(2013: £9.8m), net debt of £80.4m  
(2013: £77.4m) and net current assets  
of £74.3m (2013: £59.1m).
We completed a successful refinancing of 
the Macquarie debt through the completion 
of US$165m five year term bonds in April 
2013, which listed on the Oslo Børs in 
September. In December we completed the 
arrangement of a US$30m senior unsecured 
bonds issue, which were listed on the Oslo 
alternative bond market shortly thereafter.
Operational review
In December 2013 we acquired Caithness  
Oil Limited, a producing asset in Scotland, 
with upside potential through the 
monetisation of associated gas. This is  
in line with our strategy of supplementing 
organic growth with acquisitions that have  
a complementary fit with the business. 
Earlier this year IGas, along with our 
partners Egdon Resources, Dart Energy and 
eCorp signed a Farm-out Agreement with 
Total E&P UK Limited for a fully funded  
work programme of up to US$46.5m  
on two of our licence areas in the 
Gainsborough Trough in Lincolnshire. 
IGas became operator of the licences on 
completion of the deal in February and 
unusually increased its interest in the 
licence through the transaction.
The entry of the first super major into British 
shale gas licences is a further endorsement 
of the potential that exists following the 
commitments by Centrica and GDF Suez to 
other UK acreage, and demonstrates strong 
support for our operating capability.
We completed drilling operations at our 
exploration well at Barton Moss in Eccles 
in a safe and environmentally responsible 
manner. The well encountered the coal 
measures at anticipated depths and also 
found a package comprising the Sabden  
and Bowland Shale formations. 
With three decades of experience of 
onshore exploration and developments  
in Britain, the IGas Group is well aware  
of the challenge of managing both above 
and below ground risks. The former,  
in particular, have grown in complexity  
more recently as we are rightly being held 
ever more accountable for the impact  
of our operations.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
15
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We are investing heavily in building our 
organisational capabilities, continuously 
seeking to improve our understanding, 
engagement and social performance.  
We are determined to maximise local 
business opportunities and are committed 
to engaging with the communities in which 
we operate with integrity and transparency.
People
Enabling people to fulfil their potential  
is central to achieving both our strategy 
and our vision of creating shared prosperity 
for our shareholders, our staff and the 
communities with whom we work.  
Our workforce now totals 161 people.  
We remain focused on building capacity  
in our areas of operation and creating  
local employment opportunities. 
The contribution and efforts of the 
executive team at IGas has led to significant 
value creation for your Company over  
the last year and I would like to commend 
them particularly on this result.
I would also like to thank all of our 
employees and contractors for their  
hard work and commitment to the  
future success of the Company.
Outlook
The global appetite for energy continues 
to grow. Domestically, North Sea oil and 
gas output has fallen by 38% over the last 
three years and by 2020 Britain is set to 
be reliant on imports to meet 70% of the 
country’s gas needs. The vulnerability of 
energy supplies has also been exposed by 
international political unrest. When it comes 
to security of supply, there is a pressing 
need for solutions and we believe we have 
successfully positioned IGas to be part  
of the solution.
Since the year end, as part of our strategy  
to secure access to more resources, we  
have announced the proposed acquisition 
of Dart Energy which will create a market 
leading onshore British oil and gas company 
with the largest area in Britain under licence  
of over 1 million net acres, including  
a presence in each of Britain’s major  
shale basins. 
We also intend to be an active  
participant in the 14
th
 UK Onshore  
licensing round which is currently  
expected to be announced around  
mid-year.
Your Board remains committed to  
creating long-term sustainable value  
for all of our stakeholders. 
Francis Gugen
Non-Executive Chairman
£75.9m
Revenue (2013: £68.3m)
2 
EBITDA relates to earnings before gains/(losses) on oil price derivatives, net finance costs, tax, depletion,  
depreciation and amortisation, acquisition costs and impairment of exploration and evaluation assets. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
16 16
STRATEGIC REPORT / Q&A WITH THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Q&A
North Sea tax revenues have been 
considerable, accounting for more than  
5% of total government receipts for much  
of the 1980s. Shale gas production could  
also generate significant tax revenue  
for the country.
What value could this unlock for 
shareholders? How would such 
growth be funded?
This represents a tremendous opportunity 
to be at the forefront of new and potentially 
significant industry. On completion of the 
Dart Energy acquisition, IGas will have the 
materiality and scale that will enable it to 
find partners at the asset level to help supply 
the capital that exploiting these resources 
will require, while retaining the position  
of operator of choice.
How does IGas engage with 
communities and ensure their 
concerns are listened to? 
We engage in a number of ways using 
traditional methods such as face to face 
meetings, exhibitions, information days  
and direct mail as well as digital and social  
media such as microsites for local projects. 
We run a public information line as well as  
a freepost address and online enquiries 
so that the public can reach us through 
whichever medium they feel most 
comfortable with.
What role does onshore gas 
have in decarbonizing the British 
economy? Is it consistent with 
our climate change targets and 
renewable industry policies?
Natural gas is a vital component of Britain’s 
energy mix – not only electricity for 
generation but also for heating and cooking. 
According to the European Commission’s 
landmark ‘Energy Roadmap 2050’ report,  
gas must play a key role in the transition  
to a greener energy future, and is critical 
for the transformation of Europe’s energy 
system from fossil fuel to renewables.
Gas produced locally would generate lower 
emissions than imported gas, as it doesn’t 
have to be transported from places like  
What difference do you think  
the onshore industry could make  
to Britain?
Britain needs to secure its future energy mix 
and offset declining North Sea production. 
Whilst doing this, it must also reduce carbon 
emissions from reliance on coal power and 
ensure an affordable future energy supply for 
consumers. Gas is vital to Britain, it currently 
provides more than 80% of our heating needs 
and around 30% of our electricity generation.
The benefits of the shale industry will  
be felt across the country in lower imports, 
higher revenues to the Exchequer, job creation, 
supply chain development and energy security. 
What are the key challenges faced 
by IGas and other operators? 
It is a combination of both above surface and 
below surface. Above surface is about showing 
the public that this can be carried out safely 
and responsibly. Onshore oil and gas regulation 
in Britain has been recognised as an exemplar 
by the rest of the world oil and gas has for over 
three decades been safely explored, developed 
and produced onshore at IGas sites.
Below surface, while we know there is gas,  
we still need to establish that we can we make 
it flow at commercially viable rates. Britain has 
several advantages over the US because of our 
existing infrastructure, density of resource and 
clarity of regulation. 
Can an onshore gas industry ever 
have sufficient scale to be material 
like the North Sea was in the  
last century?
Yes I believe it can. Aberdeen welcomed the 
development of a new offshore industry and 
the city grew to become the energy capital  
of Europe and now exports its expertise 
globally. We could see this replicated  
onshore in the areas in which we operate. 
According to the IOD Report, based on  
a recovery rate of 10% the combined gas  
in place estimates of the exploration 
companies would equate to a recoverable 
resource of 30.9 trillion cubic feet, nearly  
two thirds of Britain’s potentially recoverable 
conventional gas resources.
Russia and Qatar. Gas also produces half 
the CO
2
 generated by burning coal, which 
currently accounts for 31% of Britain’s 
electricity. Developing our shale resources 
will help us move away from coal and 
decarbonize our economy.
Who regulates IGas’s activities?
The industry is regulated by a number  
of statutory bodies including the 
Environment Agency (EA) in England, 
Scottish Environment Protection Agency 
(SEPA) in Scotland and Natural Resources 
Wales (NRW) in Wales, Health and Safety 
Executive (HSE) and the Department  
of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). 
Onshore oil and gas regulation in Britain  
has been recognised as an exemplar by  
the rest of the world. In addition the 
industry is governed by 14 separate  
pieces of European legislation.
What are the wider community 
benefits of IGas’s operations?
We are committed to the environment  
and the communities in which we operate 
and we have a long track record of engaging 
with local residents and we operate our 
own Community Fund.
There is a much wider opportunity for 
communities in addition to the direct 
community benefits of £100,000 when  
wells are tested and 1% of revenue at 
production. DECC has announced that 
Councils will be able to keep 100 per  
cent of business rates generated from  
shale gas extraction sites. Together these  
benefits are potentially worth several 
million pounds.
As we proceed with the exploration of  
shale there is an opportunity for local  
and national businesses of all sizes in  
the supply chain. The recent EY  
Report “Getting ready for UK shale gas”, 
commissioned by UKOOG, has highlighted 
an enormous opportunity for Britain with 
potentially £33bn spend in the next  
15 or so years. The report also outlines  
the need for some 64,500 jobs (direct, 
indirect, induced) at peak production. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
17
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
18
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
“Managing trust locally, while 
addressing the national energy 
challenge and in the process, 
potentially creating a new industry 
has to be the heart of planning  
for 2014/15.”
This has been another successful year 
for IGas. We continued to deliver our 
strategy of becoming the leading onshore 
independent company developing and 
producing discovered hydrocarbons  
in Britain.
We have seen further growth in the 
business whilst constantly maintaining  
our focus on operational excellence.  
The recent announcement of the proposed 
acquisition of Dart Energy will create  
a British national energy champion with 
a track record of drilling wells safely and 
on budget, placing the enlarged group in 
a strong position to deliver on its existing 
asset base and for future licensing rounds.
Confidence in British shale has been 
demonstrated over the period by Centrica’s 
investment into Cuadrilla’s acreage, which 
is situated close to our licences in the North 
West, GDF Suez’s farm-in transaction with 
Dart Energy, whose acreage is located 
immediately to the South of our acreage in 
the North West and adjacent to our licences 
in the East Midlands and our own farm-out 
agreement with Total E&P UK Limited in 
our PEDL 139/140 Licences located in the 
Gainsborough Trough. 
During the year significant progress has 
been made in developing the regulatory 
and associated framework to support  
shale gas development. 
In June 2013, the DECC announced  
a benefits package for communities 
near new shale gas drilling sites. Under 
the proposals operators will offer local 
communities £100,000 per hydraulically 
fractured well when wells are tested, 
as well as 1% of revenues once sites 
become commercial. The industry, under 
the umbrella of the United Kingdom 
Onshore Operators Group (UKOOG), the 
representative body for UK onshore oil and 
gas companies, subsequently launched a 
pilot scheme, for the first few exploration 
sites. The scheme will be in partnership with 
UK Community Foundations (UKCF), which 
works for communities through a UK-wide 
network of community foundations, to 
independently administer the funds on 
behalf of the community. UKOOG has also 
launched a consultation programme across 
a range of stakeholders to gauge community 
opinion on a number of different potential 
schemes to create a community benefit 
mechanism to distribute the 1% share  
of production revenue.
The EA has published draft technical 
guidance for onshore oil and gas  
exploration drilling, covering both 
conventional and unconventional targets. 
This consultation closed on 23rd October 
2013. The EA has announced that it will 
develop a single application pack for all 
Environmental Permit Regulators including 
mining waste and NORM (naturally 
occurring radioactive materials),  
to streamline the existing processes.
In September 2013, the Government 
published the Mackay Stone report 
compiled by Professor David MacKay,  
chief scientific advisor at DECC, and  
Dr Tim Stone, Special Advisor to the 
Secretary of State, into the subject of 
greenhouse gas emissions from shale gas 
operations. The report concluded that,  
with the right safeguards in place, the net 
effect on greenhouse gas emissions from 
shale gas production in Britain will be 
relatively small and is likely to have  
a greenhouse gas footprint similar to  
other fossil fuels that society currently 
depends on.
Public Health England released a report  
in October on the potential public health 
risks from shale gas production. The report 
states that properly run and regulated  
shale gas extraction represents a low  
risk to public health.
In the Autumn Statement the Chancellor 
announced a new fiscal regime for the 
onshore oil and gas sector. The regime 
reduces the tax rate on a portion of  
a company’s profits from 62% to 30% 
to reflect the challenges of shale gas 
exploration. Companies will receive an 
allowance equal to 75% of capital spent  
on projects.
In January 2014, DECC announced that 
local councils will be able to keep 100% 
of business rates generated from onshore 
production sites bringing new sites into line 
with renewables projects.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
19
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our business model
Deliver for stakeholders
Getting value for resources
Acquire complementary assets
Extract resources safely and responsibly
Exploration of  
conventional resources
Exploration of 
unconventional resources
“The shale gas revolution… 
can be very consistent with 
low-carbon development… 
Gas can be very helpful  
as a bridge technology.”
Ottmar Edenhofer, co-chairman of the IPCC report and professor  
of climate change economics at the Technical University Berlin.
Exploration well at Barton Moss
 
At the end of November 2013 we spudded  
an exploration well at Barton Moss in Eccles,  
Greater Manchester.
The primary objective of the well was to take rock samples which 
will enable us to understand what is beneath the surface more 
fully and thereby identify the resource potential in the underlying 
geological formations. 
We worked extensively throughout the project with the various 
authorities to ensure the safety of everyone on and around site 
including protestors and neighbours. 
As with all our operations our relationship with local residents was 
vital to us. At Barton we worked with a community liaison group  
in the area since we were originally granted planning permission 
back in 2010. 
We put in place a comprehensive relationship programme 
including a community information day last September ahead of 
the commencement of the operation and we launched a microsite 
www.igas-barton.co.uk to ensure that as many people as possible 
could view and understand the work that we were carrying out  
in the area. 
We believe the onus is on operators to ensure that the public are 
informed as to the safe extraction of oil and gas resources. During 
the exploration project at Barton we continued to inform and 
explain with regular newsletters, updates to the microsite and  
a drop-in community Q&A surgery session attended by senior 
members of the IGas team.
To learn more about the exploration well at Barton Moss online visit: 
www.igasplc.com/our-operations/where-we-operate/north-west IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
20
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
North West
Last June we released our estimated  
volume of Gas Initially In Place associated 
with the Shales in the North West,  
including the Bowland Shale, at up  
to 102 Tcf (in the midcase).
 
We constructed a geological model  
utilising 330kms of reprocessed seismic 
lines, subsurface data (including cores, logs)  
from c.20 offset wells and geological data 
from our well at Ince Marshes. This data 
has been analysed to give estimates of 
the reservoir characteristics of the shale 
formations and the thickness of the shale. 
These estimates cover an area of 300 square 
miles giving an average mid case in place 
volume of c.340 Bcf/square mile with  
a range of 93 Bcf/square mile to 677 Bcf/
square mile across our North West acreage. 
As part of our drilling programme to further 
refine these estimates we successfully 
drilled an exploration well at Barton  
Moss in Eccles, Greater Manchester  
over the winter.
Exploration well at Barton Moss
The operation commenced in November 
2013 and the drilling was completed  
in March and on budget. 
The well encountered the coal measures 
at anticipated depths and also successfully 
intersected the secondary target of the 
Dinantian limestone to calibrate the seismic 
data and in doing so, the well also found 
a package comprising the Sabden and 
Bowland Shale formations. Over 400 feet  
of core was acquired across the shale 
intervals and a full suite of wire line logs 
was run which together with the core 
data will be used to further evaluate the 
prospectivity of both the shale interval  
as well as the coal measures.
The well is now suspended and full 
laboratory analyses of the cores is 
underway the results of which are  
expected in the late Autumn. The results 
from the core analyses together with the 
wireline log data will be integrated and 
utilised to determine the next steps  
in the appraisal process. The core data  
will be very beneficial in understanding  
the geomechanical aspects of the shales 
and this will help provide key data 
to optimise the design of any future 
programme involving hydraulic  
fracturing of the Bowland Shale.
We are now in the process of implementing 
a programme to acquire c.100km
2
  
of 3-D seismic data in the North West 
with a view to firming up several potential 
exploration and development sites in the 
area, prior to the drilling of our next well. 
This 3-D seismic will also be fully compliant 
with UKOOG Shale Gas guidelines, the 
recommendations of the Royal Society 
and Royal Academy of Engineers and 
the requirements of the DECC consent 
process prior to any shale gas hydraulic 
fracturing and flow testing operations being 
undertaken. This data will inform any future 
hydraulic fracture design and help  
to ensure minimal environmental impact.
East Midlands – PEDL 139/140 
In February, IGas and our partners 
Egdon Resources, Dart Energy and eCorp 
announced a Farm-out Agreement with 
Total E&P UK Limited (“Total”), under which 
Total acquired a 40% interest in the 
PEDL 139/140 Licences. Total will fund  
a fully carried work programme of up to 
US$46.5m, with a minimum commitment 
of US$19.5m. The Licences cover an area of 
240km
2
 and border PL178 and PEDL 006 at 
Beckingham, one of our existing producing 
fields. We were appointed operator on the 
Licences at completion, which together with 
the increase in our own equity holding as  
a result of the farm-out, is an endorsement 
of the value of our operating capability.
The programme will include the acquisition 
of 3-D seismic; the drilling and testing of  
a vertical exploration well and associated 
well pad construction; and, conditional on 
the success of the testing of the exploration 
well, the drilling and testing of a second 
appraisal horizontal well. 
We have now completed our 3-D seismic 
acquisition on PEDL 139/140 on behalf  
of our joint venture partners. Accordingly, 
we will now appraise the results with  
a view to site selection, before preparing 
both an Environmental Risk Assessment and 
subsequently a full Environmental Impact 
Assessment for the identified exploration 
well. In parallel, a comprehensive 
community engagement programme  
in the selected area is being implemented.
Health & Safety
Nothing is more important to IGas 
than safety – from our people and the 
communities in which we operate,  
to the integrity of the assets and  
facilities that we manage and operate.
I am delighted that we have been  
awarded a RoSPA Gold Award for the  
eighth consecutive year and have had  
no lost time incidents through the period.
More recently, the latest Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Report 
stated that shale gas can help the world  
to avoid dangerous climate change  
if it replaces coal in power stations.
Operational review
Producing assets
The average net production in the 
12 months to 31 March 2014 was  
2,783 boepd (2013: 2,470 boepd).
We have made good progress on our  
‘Chase the Barrels’ initiative and during  
the period, the technical team has 
investigated a number of opportunities  
to increase oil production through  
relatively low cost well intervention  
and production enhancement operations. 
Comprehensive subsurface studies were 
carried out to identify and rank the 
most attractive short term well re-entry 
opportunities, including for example  
re-perforations, water shut offs 
and recompletions.
Caithness
In December 2013, we acquired Caithness 
Oil (which includes a 100% interest in the 
Lybster field), a subsidiary of Caithness 
Petroleum Limited, a privately-owned 
British independent oil and gas exploration 
and production company for a total 
consideration of £7.9m (including assumed 
borrowings and closing adjustments) paid 
through the issue of 7,488,301 shares.
The Lybster field was discovered in 1996  
by Premier Oil and was put into production 
in May 2012. The oil is currently transported 
and sold to facilities at Nigg. We have 
carried out routine workovers on the well 
and production has averaged over 100 bopd.
This acquisition represented a good 
opportunity to increase our existing 
production and one that offers significant 
upside potential through gas monetization 
of up to 2 mmscf/d of associated gas  
as well as additional upside through 
utilisation of significant existing tax losses. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
21
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IGas in the community
Supporting and sustaining the communities 
in which we operate is fundamental  
to our success and communicating  
with our neighbours is an essential part  
of our everyday operations. 
We have now announced the successful 
recipients of the 2014 round of our 
IGas Energy Community Fund. This 
independently administered fund was 
established to help local communities 
located close to the oil and gas exploration 
and production sites where we operate.
Share Incentive Plan
In 2013 we introduced an Inland Revenue 
approved all-employee Share Incentive  
Plan (“SIP”) to encourage wider share 
ownership amongst staff and to reward 
the achievement of quarterly production 
forecast targets with company sponsored 
‘matching shares’. Under the plan, 
employees contribute up to £150 per 
month (£125 per month prior to April  
2014) from their gross salary which is used 
to acquire shares in IGas, which are held 
in Trust to benefit from income and capital 
gains tax allowances. 
Following the initial subscription and 
matching award in March 2013, the 
Company has subsequently made  
2-for-1 matching contributions in 3  
of the 4 quarterly periods, reflecting 
the successes there have been with 
production. Employees who have made 
the maximum contribution since inception 
have now contributed £3,000 towards the 
plan and in addition to their holding of 
3,475 ‘Partnership’ shares, also hold 6,498 
performance-related Company ‘matching’ 
shares, with a combined value in excess  
of £13,000.
The scheme has already won two awards: 
the ESOP Best Employee Share Ownership 
Plan for companies with fewer than 1,500 
employees and the IFS Proshare Best 
Commitment to Employee Share Ownership 
(Small Company).
Outlook
In addition to exploration wells it is our 
intention, in conjunction with partners,  
to drill and flow test wells during 2015  
on either side of the Pennines; one in the 
North West, and one in the East Midlands, 
subject to being able to obtain all the 
necessary permits in place. The acquisition 
of c.100km
2
 of 3-D seismic surveys is 
underway across the North West with  
a view to confirming suitability of potential 
exploration and development sites in  
the area.
Our ‘Chase the Barrels’ initiative continues 
to help us get the most out of our producing 
assets and work continues on an increasing 
number of gas monetisation opportunities. 
The results of technical work designed  
to produce a detailed understanding of  
our producing reservoirs is being used  
to develop work programmes which  
will continue this coming year. If successful, 
these programmes will offset natural 
decline and support current production.  
We also continue to identify infill  
drilling opportunities.
IGas and the environment
 
Our desire to sustain and enhance the  
environments in which we operate means that  
we work in collaboration with local communities 
and other organizations involved in preserving  
and protecting local flora and fauna. 
On every site IGas works hard to ensure its operations have  
minimum impact on the surrounding land and our neighbours.
Key to this is a thorough understanding of the starting position  
for the site in terms of the prevailing environment. IGas works with 
independent environmental consultants, to assess our sites both 
before work starts and throughout the life of the project. 
At our exploration site at Barton Moss we carried out a series  
of tests to understand the condition of air, water and soil on site. 
This information provided a baseline against which we could  
measure our ongoing operation. Monitoring of the site continues 
after demobilisation.
£100,000
The industry has pledged to give 
communities £100,000 for test  
drilling sites
The proposed acquisition of Dart Energy will 
be voted on by both sets of shareholders 
in the coming weeks. With their support, 
the combined asset base of the businesses 
would reinforce our position at the heart 
of unlocking Britain’s energy potential and 
further demonstrates our commitment 
to, and confidence in, the British onshore 
oil and gas sector. The transaction would 
further strengthen our position financially, 
operationally and also significantly increase 
our licensed acreage.
We are committed to delivering both 
existing and potential hydrocarbons  
across the country in partnership with  
local communities, as we work together 
to unlock what could be a strategically 
important resource for Britain.
Andrew Austin
Chief Executive Officer IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
22
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW
“The acquisition of Caithness 
Oil Limited represented a good 
opportunity to increase the 
Group’s existing production and 
offer significant upside potential 
through gas monetisation.”
The year ended 31 March 2014 has been 
another extremely active year for the IGas 
Group, including the completion of the 
US$165m secured bond issue in April 2013, 
which was subsequently listed on the Oslo 
Bors in September 2013, the completion 
of the acquisition of Caithness Oil Limited 
(“Caithness”) and the arrangement of 
US$30m unsecured bonds.
On 6 December 2013, the Company 
completed the acquisition of Caithness 
from Caithness Petroleum plc for £7.9m 
(including assumed borrowings) which  
was financed by issuing 7,488,301 Ordinary 
Shares. The acquisition represented  
a good opportunity to increase the  
Group’s existing production and offer 
significant upside potential through gas 
monetisation. Caithness also came with 
significant existing tax losses. 
In December 2013, the Company issued 
US$30m of unsecured bonds, which 
were shortly thereafter listed on the Oslo 
alternative bond market. The bonds have  
a 5 year tenure carry a fixed interest of  
10% p.a., payable semi-annually, and have  
a borrowing limit of US$60m. The proceeds 
from the bond issue will be used for  
general corporate purposes, including  
gas monetisation.
Income Statement
1,3
The Group recorded revenues of £75.9m  
in the year (2013: £68.3m), £65.5m 
excluding 3rd party oil of £10.4m  
(2013: £61.0m). As stated above,  
the Group completed the acquisition  
of Caithness Oil on 6 December 2013  
and therefore the income statement 
includes approximately four months’ 
contribution from Caithness.
Group production in the year was  
1,015,866 boe, representing an average  
of 2,783 boepd (2013: 2,470 boepd). 
If the Group had owned Caithness since  
1 April 2013, Group production would  
have averaged 2,838 boepd for the year 
ended 31 March 2014.
The average realised price per barrel  
pre-hedge was £66.5 (US$106.1)  
(2013: £69.4 (US$109.6)) with narrow 
discounts to Brent continuing to be 
achieved. After taking into account the  
cash effect of hedging, which amounted 
to an average of £2.0 (US$3.2) per barrel 
(2013: £6.9 (US$10.9)), the average realised 
oil price was £64.5 (US$102.9) (2013: £62.5 
(US$98.7)) per barrel. The Company has 
now changed the way in which it hedges 
oil production through the use of zero cost 
collars and therefore this cost is expected  
to be reduced moving forward. 
Cost of sales of £47.9m (2013: £38.0m), 
includes depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation (“D,D&A”) of £13.9m  
(2013: £10.0m) and operating costs  
of £34.1m (2013: £28.1m) including  
£9.9m in relation to third party oil  
(2013: £7.0m) and £1.1m in relation  
to Caithness. Operating costs per barrel  
of oil equivalent (“boe”) were £23.3  
(2013: £21.6), excluding costs associated 
with third party oil. Operating costs  
include transportation costs of £2.84/boe  
(2013: £3.15/boe) and the costs of our  
well service team of £3.45/boe (2013: 
£2.89/boe). Net back per boe (on an  
Income Statement basis) were US$56.3 
(£35.3) (2013: US$62.0 (£39.3)).
£34.3m
EBITDA (2013: £32.3m)  Year to Year to 
 31 March 2014
1
 31 March 2013
5
 
Revenues £75.9m £68.3m
 
EBITDA
2 
£34.3m
 
 £32.3m
 
Underlying operating profit
3 
£20.3m
 
£22.1m
 
Profit/(loss) before tax £2.3m (£6.0m)
 
Net cash from operating activities £25.2m £28.9m
 
Net debt
4
 £80.4m £77.4m
 
Cash and cash equivalents £28.3m £9.8m
 
Net assets £74.3m £59.1m
IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
23
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Administrative expenses were £7.9m  
(2013: £8.4m). A charge for the impairment 
of exploration and evaluation assets of 
£3.3m (2013: £1.1m) was incurred during 
the year following the relinquishment of 
PEDLs 116, 107 and SSPL 1481 exploration 
licences in Staffordshire and Point of Ayr. 
Loss on oil price derivatives was £2.1m 
(2013: profit £0.9m). 
Net finance costs were £12.5m (2013: 
£27.9m), which primarily relates to the  
net effect of bond interest payable  
(£11.6m) and loss on the fair valuation  
of warrants outstanding (£8.1m), offset  
by a net revaluation gain of £7.8m, due  
to the strengthening of £ sterling versus  
the US dollar over the past twelve months. 
Other income amounted to £0.2m  
(2013: £0.2m). 
Gross profit of £28.0m was recognised in 
the year (2013: £30.3m) with underlying 
profit
3
 of £20.3m (2013: £22.1m).
US$106.1
Realised price  
per barrel
US$0
US$56.3  NET BACK TO IGAS PER BOE
US$12.7 SG&A PER BOE
US$27.1  OTHER OPERATING COST
US$5.5  WELL SERVICES
US$4.5 TRANSPORTATION & STORAGE
Notes
1 On 6 December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of Caithness Oil Limited and therefore the 2014  
results reflect approximately four months’ contribution from Caithness Oil.
2 EBITDA relates to earnings before gains/(losses) on oil price derivatives, net finance costs, tax, depletion,  
depreciation and amortisation, acquisition costs and impairment of exploration and evaluation assets.
3 Underlying operating profit excludes the gains/(losses) on oil price swaps, acquisition costs and impairment  
of exploration and evaluation assets.
4 Net debt is borrowings less cash and restricted cash.
5 On 28 February 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of PR Singleton from Providence Resources plc  
and therefore the 2013 results reflect one month’s contribution from PR Singleton. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
24
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Cash Flow
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March  
2014 were £28.3m (2013: £9.8m).
Cash generated from operating activities  
in the year amounted to £25.2m  
(2013: £28.9m). 
On 6 December 2013, the Company raised 
US$28.8m by issuing unsecured bonds,  
as set out above.
During the year, the Group repaid £5.1m 
(US$8.25m) of debt principal in addition 
to interest of £10.6m (US$16.3m) to the 
secured bonds.
The Group’s capital expenditure in the  
year ended 31 March 2014 was £14.4m  
(2013: £3.6m).
Balance Sheet
The Group’s non-current assets increased 
by £7.1m during the period to £245.7m, 
principally due to the drilling of the well 
at Barton Moss and the acquisition of 
Caithness. The Caithness acquisition 
has been accounted for as a business 
combination by the acquisition method  
of accounting with an effective date of  
6 December 2013, being the date the  
Group gained control of Caithness.  
Goodwill of £7.1m was added to the  
balance sheet due to the acquisition  
of Caithness.
Net debt, being borrowings less cash  
and restricted cash, at the year-end 
amounted to £80.4m (2013: £77.4m). 
Transaction costs of £3.7m (2013: £2.8m) 
associated with the debt are offset against 
the drawn debt within the balance sheet 
and will be recognised over the life of 
the loan in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies.
A deferred tax charge of £10.3m has been 
incurred for the year which has been 
created by the recognition of certain 
tax losses and other temporary timing 
differences within the Group. This has 
increased the deferred tax liability to 
£57.7m as at the balance sheet date.  
As at 31 March 2014, the Group has 
recognised corporation tax losses  
of £50.5m.
Stephen Bowler
Chief Financial Officer
“Group production in the year  
was 1,015,866 boe, representing 
an average of 2,783 boepd  
(2013: 2,470 boepd).”
£28.3m
Cash and cash equivalents  
(2013: £9.8m) IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
25
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT / RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The principal risks for the Group can 
be summarised as:
• The Group is exposed to planning, 
environmental, licensing and other 
permitting risks associated with its 
operations and, in particular, with drilling 
and production operations. The Group 
considers that such risks are partially 
mitigated through compliance with 
regulations, proactive engagement with 
regulators, communities and the expertise 
and experience of its team.
• The Group is exposed to risks associated 
with geological uncertainty. No guarantee 
can be given that oil or gas can be 
produced in the anticipated quantities 
from any or all of the Group’s assets 
or that oil or gas can be delivered 
economically. The Group considers that 
such risks are mitigated partly given  
that its producing assets are located  
in established oil and gas producing  
areas coupled with the extensive 
expertise and experience of its  
operating staff.
• The Group is exposed to market price risk 
through variations in the wholesale price 
of oil in the context of the production 
from oil fields it owns and operates. The 
Group has hedged a total of 757,000 
barrels over the period to 31 March 2015, 
through simple Put and Call options at 
zero cost (collars). Going forward, the 
Board will seek to underpin the Group’s 
future cash flows by entering into  
a combination of Put and Call options 
structured at zero cost for baseline 
production to cover on average 12 
months forward. The Board will continue 
to monitor the benefits of such hedging.
• The Group is also exposed to market price 
risk through variations in the wholesale 
price of gas and electricity in the context 
of its future unconventional production 
volumes. Currently the Group has not 
entered into any forward contracts to  
fix the prices of these commodities.  
The Board will continue to monitor the 
benefit of entering into such contracts  
at the appropriate time.
• The Group is exposed to exchange rate 
risk through both its major source of 
revenue and its major borrowings being 
priced in US$. The sterling denominated 
oil price Puts have been taken out in 
order to mitigate this risk as it affects 
the need to fund operating and 
administration costs which are  
normally paid in pounds sterling.
• The Group is exposed, through its 
operations, to liquidity risk, which  
is managed by the Board who regularly 
review the Group’s cash forecasts  
and the adequacy of available facilities  
to meet the Group’s cash requirements.
• The Group is exposed to capital risk 
resulting from its capital structure. 
However, the capital structure is 
continually monitored to ensure  
it is in line with the business needs 
and ongoing asset development. 
Further details of the Group’s capital 
management policy are disclosed  
in note 23 to the consolidated  
financial statements.
• The Group is exposed to Political 
risk. This can include changes in 
Government or the effect of local  
or national referendum. These  
political risks can result in changes  
in the regulatory or fiscal environment 
(including taxation) which could  
affect the Group’s ability to deliver  
its strategy. However, through UKOOG 
and other industry associations the 
Group engages with government and 
other appropriate organisations to 
ensure the Group is kept abreast of 
expected potential changes and takes 
an active role in making appropriate 
representations.
• The Group is also exposed to 
 a variety of other risks including  
those related to:
 • operational matters (including cost  
 increases, availability of equipment  
 and successful project execution);
 • competition;
 • key personnel; and
 • litigation.
The Group constantly monitors the Group’s risk exposures and 
reports to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis. 
The Audit Committee receives and reviews these reports and 
focuses on ensuring that the effective systems of internal financial 
and non-financial controls including the management of risk are 
maintained. The results of this work are reported to the Board, 
which in turn performs its own review and assessment. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
26
STRATEGIC REPORT / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENGAGED & 
COMMITTED IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
27
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Harnessing our experience to safeguard the environment
 
At IGas, we are committed to the environment, our employees  
and the communities in which we operate.
Summary
Over the course of the year we have  
worked alongside an array of groups, 
organisations and officials including  
a number of Community Liaison Groups, 
planning officials, the Health and Safety 
Executive (HSE), the Environment Agency 
(EA), the Department for Energy and 
Climate Change (DECC) and the United 
Kingdom Onshore Operators Group 
(UKOOG). A key tenant of these efforts  
is to inform those responsible for regulating 
our operations and communicating our 
activities to local communities.
In addition to this work, we also work  
with a range of other partners and the  
wider industry to share best practice  
and to maintain and improve our 
environmental and safety standards. 
Our people
Our continued growth and development  
as a company is dependent on us  
recruiting and retaining the highest calibre 
of employee. Building on the skills of our  
team is an integral part of this and, due  
to us operating in several locations, we  
play a part in supporting local employment 
and local economies the length and  
breadth of Britain. 
As of March 2014, we had 161 employees 
(excluding Directors and Non-Executives) 
of which 39 (24%) were women. We 
recently employed two graduates and 
have three apprentices at different stages 
of their training. In addition, we identified 
opportunities for six interns in the last  
year and recruited six entry level trainee 
operators our Southern operations.
We have over 90 employees engaged in 
production, maintenance and well servicing 
operations across our sites and the average 
service for that group is now over 11 years. 
Drivers and vehicle maintenance are still 
over 12 years.
Our community
The nature of our business means that we 
have a presence in several locations across 
the country. This has given us a long history 
of engaging with, and recruiting from, 
local communities. This gives us excellent 
experience in building strong, productive 
relationships and supporting those who live 
in and around the areas in which we work.
Local engagement
At every one of our operating locations  
we are committed to working alongside  
the neighbouring communities and 
establishing transparent and effective 
dialogue. We understand that where we 
work we become a part of that community 
and we work to ensure that we consult in  
an open, meaningful and effective way.
In order to maintain our social licence  
to operate it is incumbent upon us to  
ensure we educate and inform communities 
about our activities. It is only by doing this 
that we can bring lasting benefits and work 
to resolve any local concerns. We undertake 
this work before and during the planning 
process, and for the life of the development.
The Shannon Bradshaw Trust
A grant was awarded to The Shannon Bradshaw 
Trust to help open their new community centre  
in Penketh, Warrington.  
It is the first community centre in the area to help all sections  
of the community offering get-togethers for the elderly, such  
as lunches and bingo sessions, as well as a ‘mums and tots’ group 
and a drop in youth club for teenagers. The Trust works alongside 
the police who share this new facility and offer advice and 
counselling services to the community. The centre will also  
provide training courses free of charge, helping local people  
of all ages to obtain NVQs and learn a variety of new skills, 
depending on their needs.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
28
This year the projects that benefited ranged 
from upgrading the heating system at  
a swimming baths in Penketh to helping 
replace a community cricket pavilion in 
Storrington. Funds were also directed to 
a variety of sporting and leisure projects 
including a Multi-Use Games Area (MUGA) 
for teenagers in Nettleham and a variety 
of improvements to community buildings 
across all areas.
Of particular note were grants awarded  
to projects supporting young people.  
They included funding the refurbishment 
of a caravan in Salford, to convert it into 
a mobile youth centre and helping Surrey 
Police set up a boxing and fitness club as 
a response to problems with anti-social 
behaviour in South Godstone.
The panel gave priority to projects located 
closest to our oil and gas operations and  
to those where the benefits would go  
to the widest span of the community. 
They also looked for projects that would 
be sustainable long-term without further 
substantial fund-raising.
In addition to the Community Fund, IGas 
supported several of its staff in their  
efforts to volunteer or raise money  
for charity. Charitable donations in  
the period totalled £18,001.
IGas Energy Community Fund
Established in 2008, the IGas Energy 
Community Fund was established to  
provide a means of revitalising and  
investing back into the communities 
in which we operate. With a focus on 
charitable, educational or benevolent 
projects, it is an independently managed 
fund with allocations being selected  
by members of community groups  
and Parish Councils from the areas  
surrounding our operations.
The projects it funds benefit, not only  
the local communities, but also provide 
support to children and young people, 
vulnerable members of our communities, 
regeneration, self-help groups delivering 
basic services, wildlife projects and  
projects providing education and skills 
development opportunities.
In the period the Fund awarded nearly 
£149,000 worth of grants to support  
25 projects in towns and villages close  
to its operations. 
The latest awards were made by a panel 
made up of two senior executives from 
the company plus four representatives 
from community action organisations 
in the North West, East Midlands and 
Southern England. A total of over £53,624 
went to Cheshire and Salford, £43,047 
to Lincolnshire, Leicestershire and 
Nottinghamshire and £37,000 to  
Surrey, Hampshire and West Sussex.
Health, safety & environment
As we expand further onshore all our 
operations will continue to be run to the 
highest standards of safety, reliability and 
environmental management working in 
partnership with the communities in which 
we operate.
The security, health and safety of our 
workforce is of paramount importance 
and an integral part of everything we 
do. A positive, safe and productive work 
environment for all of our team comes from 
ensuring the contribution of each team 
member towards building and sustaining  
a strong safety culture. We conduct routine 
assessments of our operating standards 
and review on an on-going basis our facility 
HSE and ER Plans. These include risk 
assessments and mitigation that extend 
from site facilities to considering issues 
within the local geographical area.
In terms of site safety, we have emergency 
preparedness and response arrangements 
and incident response and reporting 
processes in place. We place great 
importance in ensuring the effectiveness  
of our response, and the ultimate safety  
and security of our site personnel and 
others who may be affected by  
our activities.
STRATEGIC REPORT / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Goodworth Clatford  
Riverside Walk – Weald
 
The River Anton in Hampshire is a much loved 
beauty spot visited by many local residents  
as well as visitors to the area.  
The timber boardwalk which forms part of the popular riverside 
walk along the River Anton was old and dilapidated and repairs 
were urgently needed. A local environment group sought our help 
to replace the boards with virtually indestructible recycled plastic. 
The site had to be closed on safety grounds and unless this project 
went ahead, the site would have had to remain closed. A grant of 
£6,000 from the IGas Community Fund has meant that the boards 
have now been replaced and the area is now back open for the 
local community to enjoy.
For further information visit:
www.igascommunityfund.co.uk IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
29
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Health, safety & environment
 
As we expand further onshore all our operations 
will continue to be run to the highest standards of 
safety, reliability and environmental management 
working in partnership with the communities in 
which we operate.
Our Company track record includes:
•  inherent health and safety regulation framework  
 implemented with no history of major incident
•  impact mitigation applied throughout the lifecycle  
 of an operation
•  HSE and Emergency Response plans implemented  
 for site safety purposes and extended to  
 encompass local geographical issues
•  14 greenfield planning permissions have been  
 granted since 2002
Our management system is aligned to the 
requirements of the occupational health 
and safety standard OHSAS 18001, and we 
remain committed to pursuing certification 
to this standard. 
During the reporting period we have had 
no Lost Time Injuries (“LTIs”), assisted by our 
continued commitment to safe operations.
Our environment
We have successfully maintained our 
certification to the International Quality 
Management standard ISO 9001, and the 
Environmental Management standard,  
ISO 14001 through our on-going 
commitment to maintaining the 
requirements of these standards. 
Our mandatory environmental operating 
standards are applied to all operating 
facilities. Initial risk assessments are 
conducted, along with baseline surveys, 
applying impact mitigation throughout  
all phases up to site restoration.
Our desire to sustain and enhance the 
environments in which we operate 
means that we work in collaboration with 
organisations involved in protecting local 
flora and fauna including, for example,  
The Royal Society for Protection of Birds.
The Strategic Report, as set out on  
pages 01 to 29, has been approved  
by order of the Board
Mofo Secretaries Limited
Secretary
IGas Energy plc
Registered Office:
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AJ IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
30
Strong leadership
The Board is a highly experienced team of experts, committed  
to delivering shareholder value and to working in partnership  
with the communities in which IGas operates.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE / BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Francis Gugen
Non-Executive Chairman
Francis is a founder and Non-Executive Chairman and has over 40 years’ oil and gas 
industry experience. Between 1982 and 2000 he helped grow Amerada Hess in North  
West Europe, ultimately becoming CEO. Currently he is also Non-Executive Chairman  
of Petroleum Geophysical Services ASA and of Chrysaor Limited and a board member  
of SBM Offshore NV, all involved in conventional oil & gas. Until 2006 he served  
as Non-Executive Chairman of the start up North Sea gas fields and pipelines  
operator CH4 Energy Limited, which was then disposed of for €224m.
Andrew Austin
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew is a founder of IGas, has been an Executive Director since 2004 and the Chief 
Executive Officer for the last five years with responsibility for the day to day operations  
and business development. Andrew is responsible for the transformation of IGas from  
a non-operating partner to delivering material hydrocarbon production to Britain’s  
energy market.
Prior to joining IGas, Andrew has been involved in a number of ventures as principal, 
specialising in energy projects in the gas, electricity and renewable sectors. 
Stephen Bowler
Chief Financial Officer
Steve started his career at Touche Ross, now Deloitte, where he qualified as a chartered 
accountant having spent time in both their audit and corporate finance divisions. In 1999, 
Steve joined ABN Amro Hoare Govett, now Jefferies Hoare Govett, where he acted as 
adviser and broker to a wide range of companies with a particular focus on E&P . Steve 
joined IGas on 1st November 2011. Since Steve joined IGas, the Group has, inter alia, 
successfully completed three acquisitions, two bond raising and an equity issue.
John Blaymires
Chief Operating Officer
John has 30 years of international experience in the oil and gas industry gained with  
Hess Corporation and Shell International. Before joining IGas he was Director of  
Technology Development for Hess based in Houston, where he helped develop a global 
engineering and geoscience technology group responsible for providing support across 
the E&P business, from deepwater to unconventional resources. Prior to that John was 
Technical Director for Hess’ operations in West Africa, and subsequently South East Asia 
with responsibility for several major oil and gas developments. John has a BSc and PhD  
in Mining Engineering from Leeds University. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
31
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
John Bryant
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
John is the Chairman of AIM listed Weatherley International plc, and a board member  
of AIM listed China Africa Resources Plc. He was until recently a board member of the  
Attiki Gas Company, which supplies natural gas to Athens and the surrounding districts. 
John previously served as president of Cinergy Global Resources Corp, responsible for  
all international business and global renewable power operations of this US based 
electricity and gas utility provider.
Robin Pinchbeck 
Non-Executive Director
Rob has 40 years of international experience in the oil and gas sector, having held 
leadership positions in both oil and oil-services sectors with BP , Atlantic Power, PGS  
and most recently, with Petrofac Limited where he founded and led the Operations 
Services division, and served as Group Director of Strategy.
Rob’s past Non-Executive positions include Sondex plc, SLR Consulting Ltd, Enquest  
plc and Sparrows Offshore Group Limited (where he was Chairman). He is currently  
a Non-Executive Director at Enteq Upstream plc, Seven Energy International Limited  
and Starn Energy Services Limited and is Chairman at PTS Consulting Limited.
Cuth McDowell
Non-Executive Director
Cuth has 33 years of international experience in the oil and gas sector, having held 
a range of leadership positions in Exploration and Production. He began his career  
with BP where he held various commercial and management roles over eight years.  
Cuth then joined Clyde Petroleum plc, initially as Senior Economist, subsequently  
becoming Group Commercial Manager before Clyde was bought by Gulf Canada.  
In 1997, Cuth joined Paladin Resources plc, where he served primarily as Finance  
Director. The company raised £120m in four separate primary offerings before it  
was sold to Talisman Energy Inc. for approximately £1.2bn in 2006. Cuth is currently  
a Non-Executive Director at Pitkin Petroleum, a privately owned international upstream  
oil and gas company. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors support high standards of corporate governance and the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance  
Code. As an AIM listed Company, IGas Energy plc is not obliged to comply with The UK Corporate Governance Code published  
in September 2012 (the “Code”) but instead uses its provisions as a guide, only as considered appropriate to the circumstances  
of the Company.
The Board and its committees
The Board of the Company consists of three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors; with Mr Bryant, Mr Pinchbeck  
and Mr McDowell being considered to be independent. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is John Bryant and biographies  
of all the Directors are included within this statement.
The Board retains full and effective control over the Group. The Board meets regularly, at least eight times a year, to consider  
reports on the operational and financial performance of the Group and to decide on matters reserved unto itself, which include 
reviewing and approving the Group’s strategy, budgets, major items of capital expenditure and senior personnel appointments.
The Directors have established separate committees each chaired by a Non-Executive Director as follows:
Audit committee
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors; being chaired by Cuth McDowell and having as other members John Bryant  
and Robin Pinchbeck. The Chairman and the Executive Directors may attend only at the invitation of the Committee.
The Committee receives and reviews reports from management and the Group’s auditors relating to the Group’s annual report and 
accounts and to interim results announcements. The Committee focuses particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting 
standards and the AIM Rules and on ensuring that effective systems of internal financial and non-financial controls (including for the 
management of risk and whistle-blowing) are maintained. However, the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual 
report and accounts remains with the Board of Directors. The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board 
of Directors on the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration. The Committee keeps under review the external 
auditors’ independence and considers the nature, scope, and results of the auditor’s work and develops policy on and reviews  
(reserving the right to approve) any non-audit services that are provided by the external auditors.
The Committee normally meets at least three times a year and meets the external auditors at least annually without the presence  
of the Executive Directors.
Remuneration committee
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, being chaired by John Bryant and having as other members Robin Pinchbeck  
and Cuth McDowell. The Committee, which normally meets at least twice a year, has responsibility for making recommendations to  
the Board of Directors on the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior executives 
(as are delegated to the Committee to consider) and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration packages 
for each of them, including pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes. 
In accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and 
conditions of service or remuneration.
Nomination committee
The Nomination committee is chaired by the Chairman, Francis Gugen, and its other member is the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, John Bryant. The Committee, which meets as required throughout the year, has responsibility for considering the size, 
structure and composition of the Board of Directors, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee is also tasked with ensuring that plans are in place for orderly 
succession to the Board of Directors and senior management positions, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience 
within the Group and the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company is invited to attend meetings of the Committee 
when the Committee is discussing matters related to executive management and such other matters as the Committee chairman  
deems appropriate.
At each Annual General Meeting at least one third of the Directors shall retire from office by rotation. The Directors to retire by rotation 
shall include, firstly, any Director who wishes to retire at the meeting and not offer himself for re-election and, secondly, those Directors 
who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, provided always that each Director shall be required to 
retire and offer himself for re-election at least every three years. Directors appointed by the Board hold office only until the dissolution  
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company next following such appointment. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
33
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group’s system of internal controls and reviewing  
its effectiveness. The procedures that include, inter alia, financial, operational, health & safety, compliance matters and risk management 
(as detailed in the Strategic Report) are reviewed on an on-going basis. The Group’s internal control procedures include Board approval 
for all significant projects, including corporate transactions and major capital projects. The Board receives and reviews regular reports 
covering both the technical progress of projects and the Group’s financial affairs to facilitate its control. The Group has in place internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to the Group’s financial reporting process and the Group’s process for preparing 
consolidated accounts. These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and 
transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of Consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. 
The Audit committee reviews draft annual and interim reports before recommending their publication to the Board. The Audit committee 
discusses with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and external auditors the significant accounting policies, estimates and 
judgments applied in preparing these reports. The internal control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The Board has considered the need for a separate internal audit function but, bearing in mind the present 
size and composition of the Group, does not consider it necessary at the current time.
UK Bribery Act
IGas has reviewed the appropriate policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act. The Company continues  
actively to promote good practice throughout the Group and has initiated a rolling programme of anti-bribery and corruption training  
for all relevant employees.
 
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are considered important by the Directors. The primary contact with shareholders, investors and 
analysts is the Chief Executive Officer. The other Executive Directors, however, regularly speak to investors and analysts during the year. 
Company circulars and press releases have also been issued throughout the year for the purpose of keeping investors informed about  
the Group’s progress.
The Company also maintains a website (www.igasplc.com) that is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about  
the Group.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report explains our remuneration policy for Directors and sets out how decisions regarding Directors’ pay for the period  
under review have been taken.
Remit of the Remuneration committee
The remit of the Remuneration committee (the “Committee”) is provided in the Corporate Governance section.
The Committee has engaged the services of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) to provide wholly independent advice on executive 
compensation and to assist the Committee in the implementation and evaluation of its long term incentive arrangements. There were  
no other services provided by PwC to the Group during the period.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s policy is to maintain levels of remuneration sufficient to attract, motivate and retain senior executives of the highest 
calibre who can deliver growth in shareholder value. Executive remuneration currently consists of basic salary, pensions, benefits,  
annual bonus (based on annually set targets), and long term incentives (to reward long term performance). The Company seeks to  
strike an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related reward, therefore, the total remuneration package is structured  
so that a significant proportion is subject to the achievement of performance targets, forming a clear link between pay and performance.  
The performance targets are aligned to the key drivers of the business strategy, thereby creating a strong alignment of interest between 
executives and shareholders.
The Committee will continue to review the Company’s remuneration policy and make amendments, if necessary, to ensure it remains  
fit for purpose for the Company, driving high levels of executive performance and remains competitive in the market.
Base salary
The purpose of the base salary is to:
• help recruit and retain key individuals;
• reflect the individual’s experience, role and contribution within the Company; and
• ensure fair reward for “doing the job”.
The Committee reviews base salaries annually to ensure that Executive Directors pay remains competitively aligned with external  
market practices.
The Committee will retain the discretion to increase an individual’s salary where there is a significant difference between  
current levels and a market competitive rate for similar positions in similar organisations (based on size, complexity and sector).  
However in determining whether to increase levels the Committee will take the following into consideration:
• the performance of the individual Director;
• the individual Director’s experience and responsibilities;
• impact on fixed costs of any increase; and
• pay and conditions throughout the Company.
Bonus
Executives and employees are eligible to participate in a discretionary bonus plan. The percentage of maximum bonus entitlement 
received is based on the achievement of challenging corporate and personal targets. The maximum potential bonus entitlement  
for Directors under the plan is to up to 100% of base salary. The Committee can exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances.  
The Committee will determine on an annual basis the level of deferral, if any, of the bonus payment into Company shares.  
Maximum bonus levels and the proportion payable for on target performance are considered in the light of market bonus levels  
for similar roles among the industry sector.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee set clear objectives for each individual Director relating to Group KPIs plus individual 
and strategic targets taking into account where an individual has particular influence and responsibility. The Committee also takes into 
account overall corporate performance in determining the actual annual bonus payment. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
35
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following criteria sets out the performance metrics which the Remuneration committee determined the bonus against the relevant 
KPIs and individual and strategic targets and the relative weighting for each Executive Director (the Committee have determined that  
it is inappropriate to disclose the actual targets due to commercial sensitivity):
A list of the Performance metrics are as follows:-
• HSE targets;
• production targets; 
• reserves and resources targets (conventional and unconventional); 
• Opex and G&A costs; 
• cashflow; 
• annual share price performance relative to an appropriate comparator Group; and 
• personal and strategic development goals.
The table below sets out the percentage achieved for each Executive Director:-
   Andrew Austin  John Blaymires  Stephen Bowler
Percentage of Performance Metric achieved   84.82% 83.32% 83.58%
Bonuses were paid in cash and are not pensionable. 
Benefits
The Company provides Executive Directors with benefits in kind, with a pension contribution up to 15% of base salary (as well as other  
less significant benefits in kind).
Long Term Incentives
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
In 2011, the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP , 
participants can each be granted two types of award: an Initial Award and an Annual Award. Both types of award are in the form of a nil 
cost option. If the relevant conditions attaching to the awards are met then the Director has seven years in which to exercise the award.
The maximum individual limit for an Initial Award is 300% of salary and 150% of salary for an Annual Award. The primary purpose of the 
Initial Award is to aid recruitment and retention of key executives with the Annual Award focused on the achievement of challenging 
growth targets.
Initial Awards were granted in 2011. These awards vest at the end of a three year performance period provided the Company’s share 
price performance exceeds the Company’s weighted average cost of capital of 10%. 
Annual Awards will vest at the end of a three year period provided certain challenging corporate performance conditions have been met.  
In addition, awards will only vest provided that up to 50% of an Executive Director’s post tax bonus paid in the year of grant has been 
invested into Company shares and retained over that period. No Annual Awards have been granted this year. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Review of Directors’ Incentive rewards
The Committee has reviewed the Company’s remuneration policy for incentive awards to Executive Directors to ensure that the arrangements 
act as an appropriate tool with which to attract, retain and motivate key value drivers who are critical to executing the business strategy.  
As a result, the Committee has recommended, and the Board has agreed, the intent to make the changes detailed below to the Executive  
Director long-term incentive rewards. A resolution will be put to the Board to implement these intended changes at a future date:
• To compensate the Executive Directors for the absence of regular annual LTIP awards over recent years, a one-off award equal to 200% of base 
salary is planned to be made to each Director. These awards will vest at the end of a three year performance period provided the Company’s 
share price performance exceeds IGas’ weighted average cost of capital of 10%. No further LTIP awards will be made to Executive Directors 
following this award.
• To recognise the changing requirements of the business and to support the achievement of IGas’ growth objectives over the medium to  
long term, a new long-term incentive award will be introduced for Executive Directors, namely the IGas 2014 Value Creation Plan (“VCP”):
• Under the VCP , performance units will be granted which convert into a certain number of shares at end of 3 year performance period.
• The VCP requires creation of shareholder value in excess of threshold hurdle, i.e. 10% annualised share price growth from 1 April 2014.
• If this hurdle is met at the end of performance period, participants will receive in aggregate 12.5% of the shareholder value created above  
the hurdle.
• 50% of this value will vest in shares of equivalent value at end of the performance period and 25% at the end of each of the following  
two years.
• In implementing the above arrangement, the Committee will ensure to place an overall limit on the number of new issue shares that can 
be issued under any share scheme of 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period (in line with best practice UK corporate 
governance guidelines).
Share Investment Plan (“SIP”)
In 2013, the Company adopted an Inland Revenue approved Share Investment Plan for all employees of the Group. The scheme is a tax efficient 
incentive plan pursuant to which all employees are eligible to acquire up to £125 (or 10% of salary, if less) worth of IGas Ordinary Shares per 
month or £1,500 per annum. From April 2014, employees are eligible to acquire up to £150 (or 10% of salary, if less) worth of IGas Ordinary Shares 
per month or £1,800 per annum. An initial lump sum purchase was offered in March 2013 to allow participants to acquire up to £1,500 of IGas 
Ordinary Shares, which the Company matched on a 2to1 basis.
On an ongoing basis shares will be acquired on a quarterly basis. The Company will match the shares purchased on a 1to1 basis and subject to 
the Company having met pre-defined quarterly production targets, will increase the matching element of that quarter to 2to1. To receive their 
allocation of matching shares, employees must ordinarily remain employed by the Company for a period of 3 years from the date of grant of the 
matching award.
Share price movements during the year
The Group’s share price as at 31 March 2014 was 123.50p per share. The highest price during the period was 160.25p per share and the lowest 
share price during the period was 68.50p per share.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
37
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Current arrangements
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors are employed under rolling contracts with notice periods of 12 months or less from the Company or executive.
Directors’ emoluments for the period were as follows:
      Year ended
  Year ended 31 March 2014    31 March 2013
  Taxable
 Salary Bonus Benefits Pensions Total Total
Executive Directors £000  £000 £000 £000 £000  £000
A Austin – CEO 310 263 11 47 631 760
S Bowler – CFO  225 188 2 34 449 383
J Blaymires – COO  225 187 1 34 447 352
Total – Executive Directors 760 638 14 115 1,527 1,495
      Year ended
  Year ended 31 March 2014    31 March 2013
   Taxable
  Emoluments Benefits Pensions  Total Total
Non-Executive Directors  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 
F Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman  105
*
 – – 105 80
J Bryant – Senior Independent  75
*
 – – 75 45
R Pinchbeck (Appointed 11 July 2012)  50 – – 50 25
C McDowell (Appointed 20 December 2012)  60 – – 60 10
R Armstrong (Resigned 20 December 2012)  – – – – 34
J Hamilton (Resigned 20 December 2012)   – – – – 47
Total – Non-Executive Directors   290 – –  290 241
* Part of these emoluments are paid to Companies that provide the services.
Each of the Executive Directors devotes such time as is required to discharge his duties, which in the case of A Austin, J Blaymires and S Bowler  
is full time.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding long term incentives held by the Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below:
Existing long term incentive arrangements:
   At    As at Earliest
  Date of 1 April    31 March vesting Lapse
  Grant 2013 Granted Exercised  Waived 2014 date date
A Austin  21/11/2011 1,029,702 – – – 1,029,702 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
J Blaymires  21/11/2011 681,743 – – – 681,743 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
S Bowler  21/11/2011 396,040 – – – 396,040 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
  30/09/2013 – 285,703 – – 285,703 21/11/2014 21/11/2021
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are employed under rolling contracts with notice periods of three months, under which they are not entitled  
to any pension, benefits or bonuses.
John Bryant
Chairman Remuneration committee
25 June 2014 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
38
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Directors present their report together with the Group and Parent Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Business review and future developments
A review of the business and the future developments of the Group are presented in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s 
statement and the Chief Financial Officer’s review which are all sections within the Strategic report.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend (2013: £nil).
Going concern
The Directors consider that, having taken into consideration the factors set out in note 1(b) in the financial statements, the expected 
operating cash flows of the Group combined with the Bond monies give them confidence that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue as a going concern. The financial statements have, therefore, been prepared on the going concern basis.
Principal activity
The Group’s principal area of activity is exploring for, appraising, developing and producing oil and gas in Great Britain.
Share capital
Details of changes to share capital in the year are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year were as follows:
  
F Gugen Non-Executive Chairman
A Austin Chief Executive Officer
J Blaymires Chief Operating Officer
S Bowler Chief Financial Officer
J Bryant Non-Executive
R Pinchbeck Non-Executive
C McDowell Non-Executive
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 March 2014 were as follows:
  31 March 2014  31 March 2013
  Ordinary 10p Shares 
 
Ordinary 10p Shares
  Number % Number %
F Gugen  27,615,764 13.49 27,615,764  14.80
A Austin  10,968,182 5.36 10,659,253 5.71
J Blaymires  28,929 0.01 20,000 0.01
S Bowler  78,929 0.04 70,000 0.04
J Bryant  59,045 0.03 59,045 0.03
R Pinchbeck  141,000 0.07 141,000 0.08
C McDowell  – – – –
In addition to the table above, on 22 April 2014, A Austin, J Blaymires and S Bowler subscribed to their full entitlement under the initial 
subscription of the Group’s share scheme and accordingly were each allotted 1,044 shares under the Share Investment Plan (“SIP”). 
Further details of the SIP can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The interests of the Directors in the 10% Bonds issued by the Company at 31 March 2014 were as follows:
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    US$ US$
F Gugen    2,800,000 5,000,000
C McDowell    285,000 –
Rotation and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Articles of Association J Blaymires, R Pinchbeck and S Bowler retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer  
themselves for re-election.
Directors’ Report IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
39
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ insurance and indemnity provisions
Subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006, the Company has arranged appropriate Directors and officers insurance  
to indemnify the Directors and officers against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties. Such provision remains in force 
at the date of this report.
The Company indemnifies the Directors against actions they undertake or fail to undertake as Directors or officers of any Group Company, 
to the extent permissible for such indemnities to meet the test of a qualifying third party indemnity provision as provided for by the 
Companies Act 2006. The nature and extent of the indemnities is as described in Section 60 of the Company’s Articles of Association  
as adopted on 20 June 2010. These provisions remained in force throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholders
At 31 March 2014, in addition to the Directors’ interests as set out above, the Company had received notification from the following 
institutions of interests in excess of 3% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights:
    Number of Shares %
Nexen Petroleum UK Limited    39,714,290 19.40
Brent Cheshire    11,429,253 5.58
Henderson Global Investors    9,002,036 4.40
Baillie Gifford & Co    8,088,217 3.95
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash balances, borrowings, derivative instruments and other debtors and creditors 
that arise through the normal course of business as set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s financial risk 
management objectives are set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and the Strategic report.
Employment policy
It is the policy of the Group to operate a fair employment policy. No employee or job applicant is less favourably treated than another on 
the grounds of their sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, colour or disability and 
all appointments and promotions are determined solely on merit. The Directors encourage employees to be aware of all issues affecting 
the Group and place considerable emphasis on employees sharing in its success.
Political contributions
The Group made no political donations during the year (2013: £nil).
Status
The Company is a closed Company as defined in the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company is domiciled in the UK and incorporated and registered in England.
Board committees
Information on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees is included in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting at a fee to be agreed in due course 
by the Audit committee and the Board.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report, of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of 
fellow Directors, each Director has taken all the steps that a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken as a Director in order  
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Mofo Secretaries Limited
Secretary
IGas Energy plc
Registered Office:
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AJ
Registered in the United Kingdom number: 04981279 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
40
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities in Relation to the Group  
Financial Statements and Annual Report
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable  
United Kingdom law and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union. Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.  
In preparing the Group financial statements the Directors are required to:
• present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group;
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and  
then apply them consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• make judgements that are reasonable;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group‘s financial 
position and financial performance; and
• state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group‘s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Directors  
are also responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable regulations.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge; 
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting standards as adopted by the European Union, 
gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, and
• The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
By order of the Board
Andrew Austin Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
25 June 2014 25 June 2014 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
41
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the Group financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 29. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the  
European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect  
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of  
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of its loss for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Daniel Trotman
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
25 June 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IGas Energy plc IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
42
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 March 2014
     Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014 2013
   Notes  £000 £000
Revenue   2 75,917  68,304
   
Cost of sales:   
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation    (13,878) (9,975)
Other costs of sales    (34,062) (28,067)
Total cost of sales    (47,940) (38,042)
   
Gross profit    27,977 30,262
   
Administrative costs    (7,875) (8,351)
Relinquishment of exploration and evaluation assets    (3,259) (1,093)
Other income    174 225
(Loss)/gain on oil price derivatives    (2,095)   938
Operating profit   3 14,922 21,981
Exceptional item
Costs relating to acquisitions    (47) (59)
   
Finance income   6 7,893 26
Finance costs   6 (20,422) (27,947)
Net finance costs    (12,529) (27,921)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax    2,346 (5,999)
   
Income tax charge   7 (10,277) (12,356)
Loss from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the Group    (7,931)  (18,355)
   
Basic and diluted loss per share (pence/share)   8 (4.10p) (11.11p)
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence/share)   8 2.88p (1.91p)
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Loss for the year    (7,931) (18,355)
Other comprehensive income for the year    – –
Total comprehensive loss for the year    (7,931) (18,355) IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
43
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2014
     31 March
     2013
     31 March £000
     2014  Restated
   Notes £000  (note 29)
Non-current assets   
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets   11 90,997 81,702
Property, plant and equipment   12 115,478 124,711
Goodwill   10 39,227 32,166
    245,702 238,579
   
Current assets   
Inventories   14 1,344 1,056
Trade and other receivables   15 11,403 8,569
Cash and cash equivalents   16 28,301 9,831
Other financial assets – Restricted cash   16 – 102,865
    41,048 122,321
   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables   17 (10,960) (14,056)
Current tax liabilities    – (3,006)
Borrowings – Bond   18 (4,948) (5,466)
Borrowings – Macquarie   18 – (89,710)
Other liabilities   19 (6,804) (8,208)
Derivative financial instruments   23 (50) (10,001)
    (22,762) (130,447)
Net current assets/(liabilities)    18,286 (8,126)
Total assets less current liabilities    263,988 230,453 
  
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings – Bond   18 (103,753) (94,942)
Deferred tax liabilities   7 (57,665) (47,388)
Provisions   20 (28,248) (29,005)
    (189,666) (171,335)
Net assets    74,322 59,118
   
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital   24 17,226 15,407
Share premium account   25 58,933 37,747
Capital redemption reserve   25 41,239 41,239
Other reserves   26 (667) (797)
Accumulated deficit    (42,409) (34,478)
Shareholders’ funds    74,322 59,118
   
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 25 June 2014 and are signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Austin Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
44
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 March 2014
   Capital
 Called up Share redemption
 share capital premium  reserve Other
 (note 24) account  (note 25) reserves Accumulated
 £000  (note 25) £000 (note 26) deficit Total
 Restated  £000 Restated £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 April 2012 54,213 18,036 – 1,140 (16,151) 54,958
      
Changes in equity for year ended 31 March 2013 (Restated)      
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – – (18,355) (18,355)
Employee share plans (note 26) – – – 343 28 371
Cancellation of Deferred Shares (note 25) (41,239) – 41,239 – – –
Issue of shares during the year 2,433 19,711 – – – 22,144
Balance at 31 March 2013 (Restated) 15,407 37,747 41,239 (797) (34,478) 59,118
      
Changes in equity for year ended 31 March 2014      
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – – (7,931) (7,931)
Employee share plans (note 26) – – – 130 – 130
Warrants exercised (note 19) – 9,508 – – – 9,508
Issue of shares during the year 1,819 11,678 – – – 13,497
Balance at 31 March 2014 17,226 58,933 41,239 (667) (42,409) 74,322 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
45
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2014
     Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
   Notes £000 £000
Operating activities:   
Profit/(loss) before tax for the year    2,346 (5,999)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation   3 14,069 10,152
Share based payment charge    494 347
Gain on derivative financial instruments    46 (6,939)
Finance income   6 (7,893) (26)
Finance costs   6 20,422 27,949
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables    (1,631) 4,473
(Decrease) in trade and other payables, net of accruals related to investing activities    (2,537) (2,287)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories    (287) 17
Relinquishment of exploration and evaluation licenses    3,259 1,093
Abandonment costs incurred    (168) (29)
Other non-cash adjustments     36 (122)
Bad debt provision    – 252
Taxation paid*    (3,006) (1)
Net cash from operating activities    25,150 28,880
   
Investing activities   
Acquisition of exploration and evaluation assets    (9,875) (2,453)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    (4,499) (1,123)
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired   9 2 (13,877)
Interest received    87 25
Net cash used in investing activities    (14,285) (17,428)
   
Financing activities   
Cash proceeds from issue of Ordinary Share Capital   24 4,451 23,114
Share issue costs   24 – (970)
Interest paid    (10,568) (6,727)
Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings**    24,505 21,410
Loan issue costs    (3,690) (1,887)
Repayment of loans and borrowings    (5,128) (16,735)
Repayment of assumed borrowings and associated fees relating to acquisitions    – (28,286)
Repayment of finance lease/hire purchase agreement    – (51)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities    9,570 (10,132)
   
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year    20,435 1,320
Net foreign exchange difference    (1,965) 596
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year    9,831 7,915
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   16 28,301 9,831
   
* Tax paid related to the tax payable of acquired Star Group as at 18 December 2011.
** Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings are shown net and consists of gross proceeds from bond borrowings of £126.2 million less repayment of Macquarie  
loan of £89.7 million and hedges and early cancellation fees of £12 million. Further details on the repayment of the Macquarie loan can be found in note 18. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
46
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
As at 31 March 2014
1 Accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of IGas Energy plc (the “Company”) and subsidiaries (the “Group”) have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, adopted for use by the European Union 
(“IFRSs”) as they apply to the Group for the year ended 31 March 2014 and with the Companies Act 2006. The accounts were approved  
by the board and authorised for issue on 25 June 2014. IGas Energy plc is a public limited Company incorporated, registered in England 
and Wales and is listed on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”).
The Group financial statements are presented in UK pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The comparative amounts have been amended to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting for the Singleton acquisition  
(see note 9). 
During the year, the Group adopted the following new and amended IFRSs which were applicable to the Group’s activities as of 1 April 2013. 
     Eff ecti ve date*
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS):
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Financial Statement Presentation – This amendment changes the grouping  1 July 2012
  of items presented in Other Comprehensive Income. Items that could be reclassified to profit and 
loss at a future point in time (for example, upon de-recognition or settlement) would be presented 
separately from items which will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only 
and therefore has no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance. 
IFRS 7  IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The amendment to IFRS 7 on offsetting of financial  1 January 2014
  instruments is intended to clarify existing application issues relating to the offsetting rules and 
reduce the level of diversity in current practice. The Group has considered the effect of this 
amendment and that it has no impact on the disclosures in the financial statements. 
IFRS 10/IAS 27 Revised IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 – Separate Financial Statements.  1 January 2014
  IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that 
addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements. It also includes the issues raised 
in SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that 
applies to all entities including special purpose entities. The changes introduced by IFRS 10 requires 
management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled,  
and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements 
that were in IAS 27. The Group has concluded that the standards have no impact on the financial 
statements. This has been adopted early by the Group. 
IFRS 11/IAS 28 IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 – Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures. 1 January 2014
  IFRS 11 establishes the principles of the financial reporting by parties to a joint arrangement.  
IFRS 11 supersedes IAS 31. It removes the option for jointly controlled entities (JCE) using 
proportionate consolidation. The Group has concluded that there has been no impact on the 
financial statements. This has been adopted early by the Group.
IFRS 12 IFRS 12 – Disclosures of involvement with other entities – IFRS 12 combines, enhances and replaces  1 January 2013
  the disclosure requirement for subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and in consolidated 
structured entities. The Group has concluded that there has been no impact on the financial 
statements. This has been adopted early by the Group.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
47
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements continued
     Eff ecti ve date*
IFRS 13 IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement – IFRS 13 defines fair value, setting out in a single IFRS a framework 1 January 2013
  for measuring fair value and requires disclosure about fair value measurements. IFRS 13 applies 
when other IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements. It does not introduce any new 
requirements to measure an asset or liability at fair value, change what is measured at fair value in 
IFRS or address how to present changes in fair value. The new standard also requires new disclosures 
to assist users in understanding the valuation techniques and inputs used to develop fair value 
measurement and the effect of fair value measurement on profit and loss. The relevant disclosure 
is found in note 23. The Group has concluded that there has not been a material impact on the 
measurement of assets and liabilities.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations
Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory only for the 
Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2014 or later periods and which the Group has not adopted early. Those that  
may be applicable to the Group in future are as follows: 
    For financial period 
    commencing on or after*
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
 
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments  Not yet stated  
IAS 19 IAS 19 – Employee Benefits (Revised) 1 July 2014
IAS 32 IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial assets and Financial liabilities 1 January 2014
IAS 36 IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non – Financial assets disposal 1 January 2014
  
* The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards and interpretations. As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union (EU), the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU 
endorsement mechanism. In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for 
endorsement restricts the Group‘s discretion to early adopt standards.
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will either individually or collectively have  
a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application. The Group does not anticipate adopting  
these standards and interpretations ahead of their effective date.
(b) Going concern
The Group regularly monitors forecasts to determine that breaches in covenants are not anticipated to occur in the future. On the basis 
of the Group’s current forecasts, no breaches in covenants are anticipated. However these forecasts are based on certain assumptions 
particularly in relation to oil prices, production rates, operating costs, capital and general expenditure. After reviewing the Group’s budgets 
and cash flow projections for 2014 and 2015, and taking into consideration the current operating environment, mitigating factors which 
are within the control of the Group, the risks and the Group’s liquidity risk management outlined in note 23, the Directors are satisfied 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern. It is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the 2013-2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
48
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(c) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements present the results of IGas Energy plc and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity.  
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of consolidated financial statements are based on consistent accounting 
policies to the parent. All intercompany transactions and balances between Group Companies, including unrealised profits arising from 
them, are eliminated in full. Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, it is treated 
as an extension of the entity.
At 31 March 2014, the Group comprised the Company and entities controlled by IGas Energy plc (its subsidiaries). The results of subsidiaries 
acquired during the year are included in the consolidated Income Statement from the date that control passed to the Company.
(d) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange 
for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition 
under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement. Acquisition costs are expensed and shown as a separate line in the Income Statement.
(e) Joint arrangements
A small proportion of the Group’s licence interests are held jointly with others under arrangements whereby unincorporated and jointly 
controlled ventures are used to explore, evaluate and ultimately develop and produce from its oil and gas interests. Accordingly, the 
Group accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of these joint operations, classified in the appropriate balance 
sheet and Income Statement headings, except where its share of such amounts remain the responsibility of another party in accordance 
with the terms of carried interests as described at (j) below. Where the Group enters into a farm-up agreement involving a licence in the 
exploration and evaluation phase, the Group records all costs that it incurs under the terms of the joint operating agreement as amended 
by the farm-up agreement as they are incurred. 
When the Group, acting as an operator or manager of a joint arrangement, receives reimbursement of direct costs recharged to the joint 
arrangement, such recharges represent reimbursements of costs that the operator incurred as an agent for the joint arrangement and 
therefore have no effect on profit or loss.
(f) Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements 
and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the 
consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and 
assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual outcomes can differ from these estimates. 
In particular, the Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements and estimates are required, and where if actual 
results were to differ, this could materially affect the financial position or financial results reported in future periods. Further information 
on each of these and how they impact the various accounting policies are described in the relevant notes to the financial statements. 
Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets
The Group has capitalised intangible exploration and evaluation assets in accordance with IFRS 6, which are evaluated for impairment 
as described at (j) below. Any impairment review, where required, involves estimates and assumptions related to matters (when 
appropriate), such as recoverable reserves, production profiles, review of forward oil, gas and electricity prices, development, operating 
and off-take costs, nature of land access agreements and planning permissions, application of taxes and other matters. Where the final 
outcome or revised estimates related to such matters differ from the estimates used in any earlier impairment reviews, the results of such 
differences, to the extent that they actually affect any impairment provisions, are accounted for when such revisions are made. Details  
of the Group’s intangible exploration and evaluation assets are disclosed in note 11.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
49
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
f) Significant accounting judgements and estimates continued
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment
Management reviews the Group’s property, plant and equipment periodically for impairment indicators. The determination of recoverable 
amounts in any resulting impairment test requires judgement around key assumptions. Key assumptions in the impairment models 
include those related to prices that are based on forward curves and long-term corporate assumptions thereafter, discount rates, that 
are risked to reflect conditions specific to individual assets, future costs, both capital and operating that are based on management’s 
estimates having regard to past experience and the known characteristics of the individual assets, reserves and future production, 
discussed further below. Details of the Group’s property, plant, and equipment are disclosed in note 12.
Recoverable amount of goodwill
The Group assesses goodwill each reporting period to determine whether there is any impairment. The assessment requires the use  
of estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, reserves, production profiles and capital expenditure.  
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty. Therefore, there is a possibility that changes in circumstances  
will impact these projections, which may impact goodwill.
Proved and probable reserves
The volume of proven and probable oil and gas reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of producing 
oil and gas property, plant and equipment as well as being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning provisions, impairment 
calculations and the valuation of oil and gas properties in business combinations. Proved and probable reserves are estimated using 
standard recognised evaluation techniques. Estimates are reviewed at least annually and are regularly estimated by independent 
consultants. Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves  
by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Decommissioning costs
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based on forecast price 
levels and technology at the balance sheet date. Provision is made for the estimated cost at the balance sheet date, using a discounted 
cash flow methodology and a risk free rate of return. Details of the Group’s decommissioning costs are disclosed in note 20.
Business combinations 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by reference to the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. Those petroleum reserves and resources 
that can be reliably measured are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition by reference to independent assessments 
of reserves and resources and discounted cash flow models to reflect the revenues and expenditures related to the extraction of those 
reserves and resources. Other assets and liabilities are valued by reference to market-based observations or independent valuations 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Details of business 
combinations occurring in the current and prior year are disclosed in note 9.
Functional currency 
The determination of functional currency often requires significant judgement where the primary economic environment in which 
 a Company operates may not be clear. The parent entity reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the 
events and conditions which determines the primary economic environment.
(g) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency 
require separate identification on the face of the Income Statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the 
year. A full explanation of such items is given, where applicable, in the notes to the financial statements.
(h) Revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services supplied by the Group, net of value added tax and trade discounts. Revenue 
is recognised in the case of oil, gas and electricity sales when goods are delivered and title has passed to the customer. This generally 
occurs when the product is physically delivered to the customer’s premises or transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism. 
Revenue from the production of oil from fields in which the Group has an interest with other producers, is recognised based on the 
Group’s working interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts. Where oil produced by third parties is processed and 
delivered to a refinery by the Group, the measurement of the revenue depends upon whether physical title to the oil passes to the Group 
or whether the Group simply acts as agent for the producer. 
Revenue from services rendered is recognised only once a legally binding contract is in place. Amounts billed for services where the 
contract provides for their delivery over a period of time are recognised evenly over the relevant period; amounts due for all other 
services are recognised as the services are provided. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
50
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(i) Non-current assets 
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised over 
the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or Group of CGUs) to which the goodwill 
relates. Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
The Group accounts for exploration and evaluation costs in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 6 “Exploration for and Evaluation of 
Mineral Resources” as follows:
• Any costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. Expenditures 
related to development and production activities are not recognised as exploration and evaluation assets.
• Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets comprise those related to acquisition of rights to explore, topographical, 
geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling (including coring and sampling), activities in relation to evaluating 
the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting hydrocarbons (including appraisal drilling and production tests) and 
any land rights acquired for the sole purpose of effecting these activities. These costs include employee remuneration and directly 
attributable overheads, materials and consumables, equipment costs and payments made to contractors.
• Tangible assets acquired for use in exploration and evaluation activities are classified as property, plant and equipment. However, to the 
extent that such tangible assets are consumed in developing an intangible exploration and evaluation asset, the amount reflecting that 
consumption is recorded as part of the exploration and evaluation asset.
• Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are initially accumulated and capitalised by reference to appropriate 
geographic areas.
• Exploration and evaluation assets are carried at cost less any impairment and are not depreciated or amortised.
• Expenditure recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to property plant and equipment, interests in oil and gas 
properties when technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting hydrocarbons is demonstrable. Exploration and evaluation 
assets are assessed for impairment (on the basis described below), and any impairment loss recognised, before reclassification.
Impairment testing of exploration and evaluation assets
Expenditures recognised as exploration and evaluation assets are tested for impairment whenever facts and circumstances suggest that 
they may be impaired, which includes when a licence is approaching the end of its term and is not expected to be renewed, there are 
no substantive plans for continued exploration or evaluation of an area, the Group decides to abandon an area, or whilst development is 
likely to proceed in an area there are indications that the exploration and evaluation asset costs are unlikely to be recovered in full either 
by development or through sale.
Property plant and equipment – interests in oil and gas properties
Property plant and equipment, interests in oil and gas properties are accounted for as follows:
• Oil and gas properties and other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
• The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset  
into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation and, for qualifying assets (where relevant), borrowing costs.  
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire  
the asset. The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
• When a development project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain construction/development costs ceases,  
and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation.
• Expenditure relating to interests in oil and gas properties includes both expenditure which is depleted on a unit of production basis, 
commencing at the start of commercial production and expenditure which is depreciated on a straight line basis over the relevant asset’s 
estimated useful life. Where expenditure is depreciated on a unit of production basis, the depletion charge is calculated according to the 
proportion that production bears to the recoverable reserves for each property.
• The Group’s interests in oil and gas properties are assessed for indications of impairment including events or changes in circumstances 
indicating that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, when impairment is computed on the basis as set out below.  
Any impairment in value is charged to the Income Statement as additional depreciation.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
51
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(i) Non-current assets continued
• Net proceeds from any disposal of development/producing assets are compared to the previously capitalised costs for the relevant asset 
or Group of assets. A gain or loss on disposal of a development/producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that 
the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset or Group of assets.
Impairment
Impairment reviews, when required as described above, are carried out on the following basis:
• By comparing the sum of any amounts carried in the books as compared to the recoverable amount.
• The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The Group generally assesses the value 
in use using the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU.
• Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a 
change in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment 
losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value and the carrying value that would have 
been determined (net of depletion) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Decommissioning
Where a liability for the removal of production facilities or site restoration exists, a provision for decommissioning is recognised.  
The amount recognised is discounted to its present value and is reflected in the Group’s non-current liabilities. A corresponding asset is 
included in the appropriate category of the Group’s non-current assets (intangible exploration and evaluation assets and property plant 
and equipment), depending on the accounting treatment adopted for the underlying operations/asset leading to the decommissioning 
provision. The asset is assessed for impairment and depleted in accordance with the Group’s policies as set out above.
Carried interests
Where the Group has entered into carried interest agreements in exploration and evaluation projects and the Group’s interest is being 
carried by a third party, no amounts are recorded in the financial statements where expenditure incurred under such agreements is 
not refundable. Where expenditure is refundable, out of what would but for the carry agreements have been the Group’s share of 
production, the Group records amounts as non-current assets, with a corresponding offset in current liabilities or non-current liabilities, as 
appropriate, but only once it is apparent that it is more likely than not that future production will be adequate to result in a refund under 
the terms of any carry agreement; the Group records refunds only to the extent that they are expected to be repayable.
Other property plant and equipment
Other property plant and equipment is stated at cost to the Group less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on such assets, 
with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, over their 
estimated useful lives at the following rates, with any impairment being accounted for as additional depreciation:
Equipment used for exploration and evaluation – between six and twelve years on a straight line basis
Freehold Land – indefinite useful life
Buildings/leasehold property improvements – over five to ten years on a straight line basis/over the period of the lease 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – between three and twenty years on a straight line basis
Motor Vehicles – over four years on a straight line basis 
The Group does not capitalise amounts considered to be immaterial. 
(j) Financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and cash held on current account or on short-term deposits at variable interest rates 
with original maturity periods of up to three months. Any interest earned is accrued monthly and classified as interest income within 
finance income. 
Other financial assets – Restricted cash
Where cash is held in escrow, funds are only classified as cash and cash equivalents when monies are transferred to and under the control 
of the Group.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value when related amounts are invoiced, then carried at this amount less any allowances 
for doubtful debts or provision made for impairment of these receivables. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
52
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(j) Financial instruments continued
Trade and other payables
These financial liabilities are all non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration payable.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group enters into derivatives to manage its exposure to variability in the price of a proportion of its crude oil production.  
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each period end. Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow  
hedging instruments, all changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise,  
otherwise they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties 
in an arm’s length transaction. It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would 
be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated 
discounted values of cash flows. The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been calculated on a discounted cash flow basis  
by reference to forward market prices and risk free returns adjusted in the case of derivative financial liabilities by an appropriate  
credit spread.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts, such as warrants attached to loans, are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair 
value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held 
for trading or designated at fair value though profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair 
value recognised in the Income Statement. 
Warrants
When warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS 39 due to the variable number of shares that would be issued in each case 
they are accounted for as financial liabilities. The warrants are initialised at fair value on the date they are issued and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each period end. All changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment of financial assets 
In relation to financial assets, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency 
or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms 
of the invoice. The carrying amount of receivables is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised 
when they are assessed as uncollectible.
(k) Borrowings
Borrowings are measured initially at fair value. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) method. Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. When management estimates of the amounts or timings of 
cash flows are revised, borrowings are re-measured using the revised cash flow estimates under the original effective interest rate with 
any consequent adjustment being recognised in the Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part  
of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Income Statement.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of these assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted 
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(l) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date 
including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys  
a right to use the asset.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
53
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(l) Leases continued
Operating leases
Rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. 
Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at their capital value and depreciated over their useful lives. 
Capital value is defined as the amount equal to the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. Lease payments consist of capital and finance charge elements; the finance 
charge element is charged to the Income Statement.
(m) Inventories
Inventories, consisting of crude oil, drilling materials and maintenance materials, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Costs comprise all costs of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Weighted average cost is used to determine the cost of ordinarily inter-changeable items.
(n) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the tax authorities.  
Taxable profit/(loss) differs from the profit/(loss) before taxation as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items  
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance  
sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date except 
when the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Temporary differences 
arise from differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more 
likely than not that they will be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
(o) Share based payments
Where Share Options or warrants are awarded to employees including Directors, the fair value of the options or warrants at the date of 
the grant is recorded in equity over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions, but only those related to service and performance, 
are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, 
the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. All other vesting 
conditions, including market vesting conditions, are factored into the fair value of the options or warrants granted. As long as all other 
vesting conditions are satisfied, the amount recorded is computed irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied.  
The cumulative amount recognised is not adjusted for the failure to achieve a market vesting condition; although equity no longer 
required for options or warrants may be transferred to another equity reserve.
Where the terms and conditions of options or warrants are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, 
measured by the change from immediately before to after the modification, is also recorded in equity over the remaining vesting period.
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised or 
the award is recognised immediately.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the amount recognised in equity is the fair value of goods and 
services received.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
54
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(o) Share based payments continued
Charges corresponding to the amounts recognised in equity are accounted for as a cost against profit and loss unless the services 
rendered qualify for capitalisation as a non-current asset. Costs may be capitalised within non-current assets in the event of services being 
rendered in connection with an acquisition of intangible exploration and evaluation assets or property plant and equipment.
Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, the value of such shares at issue will be 
recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way, but will not affect shareholders’ funds since this same value will 
be shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds by way of a separate component of equity. 
(p) Post-retirement benefits
A subsidiary within the Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those 
of the Group in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the Income Statement represents the contributions payable 
to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
(q) Equity
Equity instruments issued by the Company are usually recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and allocated between 
called up share capital and share premium accounts as appropriate.
(r) Foreign currency 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK pound sterling, which is the parent Company’s and its subsidiaries’ functional 
currency. The Group does not have any foreign operations. Transactions denominated in currencies other than functional currency are 
translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the Income Statement.
2 Revenue and segment information
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess 
their performance, and for which financial information is available. In the case of the Group the CODM are the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Board of Directors and all information reported to the CODM is based on the consolidated results of the Group as one operating 
segment as the Group’s activities all relate to UK oil and gas. Therefore the Group has one operating and reportable segment as reflected 
in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
All revenue, which represents turnover, arises within the United Kingdom and relates to external parties. £63.6 million of the Group’s 
revenue was derived from 3 customers (2013: £61.7 million derived from 2 customers).
All the Group’s non-current assets are in the United Kingdom.
3 Operating profit/loss
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging:  
Staff costs (see note 4)    10,194 9,867
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation    14,069 10,152
Auditor’s remuneration:  
 Audit fee    199 207
 Audit of accounts of any associate of the Company    56 140
 Audit-related assurance of services    72 117
 All taxation advisory services other than tax compliance    37 –
 Non-assurance services    25 41
Operating lease charges:  
 Land and buildings    1,723 1,464
 Other    196 197
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
55
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4 Employee information
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Staff costs comprised:  
Wages and salaries    9,600 8,872
Social security costs    1,457 790
Company contribution to pension scheme    760 571
Employee share based payment cost under IFRS 2    577 274
    12,394 10,507
    No. No.
Average number of employees including Directors in the year:
Operations, including services    128 112
Administrative    39 41
    167 153
In the year ended 31 March 2014 £2.2 million (2013: £0.64 million) of the Group’s remuneration costs have been capitalised  
in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy.
5 Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows:
     Year ended 
     31 March
 Year ended 31 March 2014  2013
   Taxable
 Salary Bonus Benefits Pensions Total Total
Executive Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
A Austin – CEO 310 263 11 47 631 760
S Bowler – CFO  225 188 2 34 449 383
J Blaymires – COO 225 187 1 34 447 352
Total – Executive Directors 760 638 14 115 1,527 1,495
  Taxable
 Emoluments  Benefits Pensions Total Total
Non-Executive Directors £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
F Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman* 105 – – 105 80
J Bryant – Senior Independent* 75 – – 75 45
R Pinchbeck (Appointed 11 July 2012) 50 – – 50 25
C McDowell (Appointed 20 December 2012) 60 – – 60 10
R Armstrong (Resigned 20 December 2012) – – – – 34
J Hamilton (Resigned 20 December 2012) – – – – 47
Total – Non-Executive Directors 290 – – 290 241
     
* Part of these emoluments are paid to Companies that provide the services. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
56
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 Directors’ emoluments continued
Directors’ share schemes/warrants
At 31 March 2014 the Executive Directors held the following awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan as follows:
Long Term Incentive Plans
  31 March  Exercise 31 March Exercise
  2014  price 2013 price
  Number (p/share) Number (p/share)
A Austin  1,029,702 – 1,029,702 –
J Blaymires  681,743 – 681,743 –
S Bowler  681,743 – 396,040 –
6 Finance income and costs 
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Finance income:  
Interest on short-term deposits    87 26
Foreign exchange gains    7,806 –
Finance income recognised in Income Statement    7,893 26
Finance expense:  
Finance lease charges    – 25
Other interest    130 –
Interest on borrowings – Bond     11,626 322
Interest on borrowings – Macquarie    – 8,882
Interest on borrowings – Macquarie debt costs written off under amortised cost*    – 7,647
Interest expense    11,756 16,876
Loss on interest rate swaps    – 573
Foreign exchange loss    – 3,275
Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 20)    562 457
Loss on fair value of warrants (note 19)    8,104 5,402
Finance charges – early settlement fees for assumed Singleton loan    – 1,364
Finance expense recognised in Income Statement    20,422 27,947
* Costs are in relation to the Group refinancing, further details can be found in note 18.
7 Taxation
i) Tax charge on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
UK corporation tax:  
Current tax on income for the year    – –
Adjustments in respect of prior year    – (161)
Total current tax charge/(credit)    – (161)
Deferred tax:  
Current year charge relating to the origination or reversal of temporary differences     10,317 13,274
Credit in relation to prior year    (40) (757)
Total deferred tax charge    10,277 12,517
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities    10,277 12,356
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
57
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7 Taxation continued
ii) Factors affecting the tax charge
The majority of the Group’s profits are now generated by “ring-fence” businesses which attract UK corporation tax and supplementary 
charge at a combined rate of 62%. The tax assessed for the year does not reflect a charge equivalent to the profit on ordinary activities 
multiplied by the rate of corporation tax and supplementary charge for ring-fenced businesses in the United Kingdom. A reconciliation  
of the UK statutory corporation tax rate applicable to the Group’s profit/(loss) before tax to the Group’s total tax charge is as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax    2,346 (5,999)
Expected tax charge/(credit) based on profit or loss on ordinary activities multiplied by the  
 combined rate of corporation tax and supplementary charge in the UK of 62% (2013: 62%)    1,454 (3,719)
Prior year deferred tax credit    (40)  (757)
Prior year current tax credit    – (161)
Tax effect of expenses not allowable for tax purposes    6,529 720
Tax effect of expenses not allowable for supplementary charge purposes    4,641 4,883
Impact of profits or losses taxed or relieved at different rates    (1,522) 7,389
Net (decrease)/increase in unrecognised losses carried forward    (781) 3,981
Other    (4) 20
Tax charge on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities    10,277 12,356
During the year legislation was enacted to reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and to 20%  
with effect from 1 April 2015. These rates are reflected in the calculation of deferred tax balances in respect of the Group’s non-ring  
fence activities.
iii) Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax liability in the year is shown below:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Opening liability at beginning of year    47,388 20,552
Tax credit relating to prior year    (40) (757)
Tax charge during the year recognised in Income Statement    10,317 13,274
Deferred tax liability arising from business combinations    – 14,319
Closing liability at end of year    57,665 47,388
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax liability by category of temporary difference:
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances    85,928 89,051
Tax losses carried forward    (19,999) (24,555)
Decommissioning provision    (7,775) (11,192)
Unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts    (31) (5,718)
Share based payments    (458) (198)
Deferred tax liabilities    57,665 47,388
iv) Tax losses 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where the Directors believe  
it is probable that these assets will be recovered. Such tax losses include £50.5 million of ring-fence corporation tax losses.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of approximately £120.7 million (2013: £59.5 million)  
for which no deferred tax asset is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits.  
This may affect future tax charges should certain subsidiaries in the Group produce taxable trading profits in future period where there  
is currently uncertainty of the timing of future taxable profits. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
58
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the loss attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the 
conversion of all the potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
Adjusted basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the adjusted profit/(loss) for the year, after adjusting for exceptional items, “mark 
to market” valuation adjustments and other one-off costs listed below which do not reflect the trading of the Group, attributable to the 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year.
Adjusted diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the adjusted profit/(loss) for the year, after adjusting for exceptional items, “mark 
to market” valuation adjustments and other one-off costs listed below which do not reflect the trading of the Group, attributable to the 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Basic EPS – Ordinary Shares of 10p each (Pence)    (4.10p) (11.11p)
Diluted EPS – Ordinary Shares of 10p each (Pence)    (4.10p) (11.11p)
Adjusted basic EPS – Ordinary Shares of 10p each (Pence)    2.88p (1.91p)
Adjusted diluted EPS – Ordinary Shares of 10p each (Pence)    2.88p (1.91p)
Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent – £000    (7,931) (18,355)
Add back: Loss/(Gain) on oil price derivatives    2,095 (938)
Loss on interest rate swaps    – 573
Acquisition costs    47 59
Relinquishment of exploration and evaluation assets    3,259 1,093
Loss on revaluation of warrants    8,104 5,402
Early settlement fees for assumed Singleton loan    – 1,364
Debt costs written off    – 7,647
Adjusted profit /(loss)for the year    5,574 (3,155)
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in the year – basic, diluted, adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS  193,410,155 165,257,078
There are 13,004,060 potentially dilutive warrants and options over the Ordinary Shares at 31 March 2014 (2013: 24,682,523), which are 
not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share in 2014 because they were anti-dilutive for 
the year as their conversion to Ordinary Shares would decrease the loss per share.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
59
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Acquisitions
Acquisition of Caithness Oil Limited (Renamed IGas Energy (Caithness) Limited)
On 6 December 2013, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Caithness Oil Limited (“Caithness”), an unlisted oil and  
gas exploration and production Company for a consideration of £7.9 million (including assumed borrowings of £7.9 million) which was 
funded by the issue of 7,488,301 Ordinary Shares of the Company. In addition to increasing IGas’ current production, the acquisition  
offers additional upside through utilisation of significant existing tax losses and monetisation of associated gas.
The Caithness acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination by the acquisition method of accounting with an effective 
date of 6 December 2013, being the date the Group gained control of Caithness. The fair values of property, plant and equipment, 
provisions and related tax effect are provisional subject to further analysis of the oil and gas properties acquired, including the assessment 
of potential gas monetisation.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Caithness as at the date of acquisition were:
     Provisional 
     fair value 
     £000
Assets 
Property, plant and equipment (note 12)     2,346
Cash and cash equivalents     2
Trade and other receivables     317
     2,665
 
Liabilities 
Trade and other payables     (970)
Borrowings     (7,947)
Deferred tax liabilities     –
Provisions (note 20)     (809)
     (9,726)
 
Total identifiable net liabilities at fair value     (7,061)
Purchase consideration      –
Goodwill     7,061
The fair value of contractual receivables amounts to £0.2 million. The gross value of the contractual receivables amounts to £0.2 million  
all of which is expected to be received.
Transaction costs in respect of the Caithness acquisition of £47 thousand have been recognised in the Income Statement. 
From the date of acquisition, Caithness has contributed £0.7 million of revenue and £0.5 million loss towards the net profit before tax  
of the Group. If the combination had taken place at 1 April 2013, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations for the year would  
have been £77.0 million and the Group’s operating profit before tax and acquisition costs for the Group would have been £14.4 million.
The goodwill of £7.1 million is discussed further in note 10.
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition
     £000
Consideration paid for Caithness net of cash acquired      2
Net cash flow on acquisition of Caithness     2 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
60
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Acquisitions continued
Acquisition of P.R. Singleton Limited (Renamed Island Gas (Singleton) Limited)
On 28 February 2013, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of P .R. Singleton Limited (“Singleton”), an unlisted oil  
and gas exploration and production Company for a cash consideration of £15.1 million and assumed borrowings of £28.3 million.  
The acquisition of Singleton added 100% of PEDL 240, 50% of PEDL 233, bringing a number of development opportunities and an 
experienced execution team.
The Singleton acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination by the acquisition method of accounting with an effective 
date of 28 February 2013, being the date the Group gained control of Singleton. 
The accounting for the acquisition of Singleton as of 28 February 2013 (acquisition date) was provisionally determined in respect of the 
fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013. During the year 
ended 31 March 2014, the necessary valuations and assessments have been undertaken so that the accounting for this acquisition has 
been finalised. The details of the adjustments of the provisionally determined fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are 
shown below:
  Provisional    Final
  fair value  Adjustments  fair values
  £000 £000 Comments £000
Assets    
Exploration & evaluation assets (note 11)  – 23,033 
1
 23,033
Property, plant and equipment (note 12)  41,568 (13,667) 
1
 27,901
Cash and cash equivalents  – –  –
Trade and other receivables  1,178 –  1,178
Inventories  362 –  362
  43,108 9,366  52,474
Liabilities    
Borrowings  (26,939) –  (26,939)
Deferred tax liabilities  (7,125) (7,193) 
1
 (14,318)
Provisions  (4,776) –   (4,776)
  (38,840) (7,193)  (46,033)
    
Total identifiable net assets at fair value  4,268 2,173  6,441
Purchase consideration transferred  15,092 –  15,092
Goodwill  10,824 (2,173)  8,651
 
1 Adjustments to the fair value of PP&E and E&E following remeasurement of 2P reserves and 2C resources and additional E&E assets related to Baxters Copse  
and related tax effects.
10 Goodwill
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Opening balance    32,166 23,515
Acquisitions    7,061 8,651
    39,227 32,166
Goodwill of £7.1 million was generated in the year, as described in note 9 above.
Goodwill all relates to the acquisitions of Star, Singleton and Caithness and arises principally because of the following factors: 
1) the requirement to recognise deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the difference between the assigned fair values and the tax 
bases of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at amounts that do not reflect fair value; 
2) the intangible value of an experienced team of oil industry professionals with experience of operating in the UK onshore market; 
3) the relationships and reputation developed by the acquired business with central and local government in Great Britain; 
4) the considerable potential for discovery of additional reserves of both conventional and unconventional resources in Star’s, Singleton’s 
and Caithness’s licence areas; and
5) the potential to utilise existing tax losses that have not been recognised at acquisition date.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
61
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Goodwill continued
Impairment testing of Goodwill
Goodwill has been assigned to the UK business segment, the level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.  
The UK business segment is considered the cash generating unit for the purpose of any impairment testing of this goodwill.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  
The Company has undertaken an impairment test of goodwill as at 31 March 2014. The Group assessed whether goodwill was impaired  
by calculating value-in-use using discounted future cash flows of the cash generating unit and comparing this to the total carrying value  
of the cash generating unit including goodwill. 
Value-in-use calculations are based on cash flows expected to be generated by projected oil production profiles up to the expected 
cessation of production dates. Future operating and capital expenditure were based on management’s assessment, and production  
and reserve profiles were based on proved and probable reserves as determined by an independent reserve evaluator.
The calculation of value-in-use includes the following key assumptions:
• Future production volumes
• Crude oil prices
• Discount rate
Estimated future production volumes are based on detailed data for each of the Group’s fields and take into account development plans 
for the fields agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process. 
The crude oil prices used are based on the forward oil price curve and on management’s view of long term price.
The pre-tax discount rate in 2014 is 16%. The period over which the Group has projected cash flows is in excess of five years and  
is considered to be appropriate by the Group as it is underpinned by estimates of commercial reserves. 
It was determined that the carrying amount of goodwill is not impaired.
The Directors have considered the sensitivity of the key assumptions and have concluded that any possible changes that may be 
reasonably contemplated in these key assumptions would not result in the value-in-use falling below the carrying value of goodwill. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
62
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
11 Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
     Exploration and 
     evaluation 
     £000
Cost 
At 1 April 2012     57 ,237
Additions     2,502
Acquisitions (note 9)     23,033
Changes in decommissioning     23
Licence relinquishments     (1,093)
At 31 March 2013     81,702
 
Additions     12,512
Changes in decommissioning     42
Licence relinquishments     (3,259)
At 31 March 2014     90,997
 
Amortisation 
At 1 April 2012     –
Charge for the period     –
At 31 March 2013     –
 
Charge for the year     –
At 31 March 2014     –
 
Net book amount 
At 31 March 2013     81,702
At 31 March 2014     90,997
£3.3 million of costs were written off during the year (2013: £1.1 million) relating to previously capitalised expenditure on licences  
PEDL 107, 116 and SSPL 1481 (2013: PEDL 115) where no future exploration activity was planned and these licenses were  
therefore relinquished.
Under the terms of the Secured Bond agreement, the Bondholders have a fixed and floating charge over these assets.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
63
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12 Property, plant and equipment
 Equipment   Buildings/
 used for   lease hold  Fixtures,
 exploration  Freehold property Oil and gas fittings and Motor
 and evaluation land improvements properties equipment vehicles Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost       
At 1 April 2012 179 866 539 100,429 667 1,226 103,906
Additions – – – 1,055 28 – 1,083
Disposals – – – (29) (14) (173) (216)
Acquisitions (note 9) – – – 27,899 2 –  27,901
Changes in decommissioning – – – 5,396 – – 5,396
At 31 March 2013 179 866 539 134,750 683 1,053 138,070
       
Additions – – 359 4,098 106 18 4,581
Disposals – – – (30) (89) (15) (134)
Acquisitions (note 9) – – – 2,346 – – 2,346
Changes in decommissioning – – – (2,001) – –  (2,001)
At 31 March 2014 179 866 898 139,163 700 1,056 142,862
       
Depreciation and impairment       
At 1 April 2012 31 – 336 2,756 143 95 3,361
Charge for the year 20 – 164 9,523 203 260 10,170
Disposals – – – – (10) (162) (172)
At 31 March 2013 51 – 500 12,279 336 193 13,359
       
Charge for the year 20 – 196 13,550 163 160 14,089
Disposals – – – – (49) (15) (64)
At 31 March 2014 71 – 696 25,829 450 338 27 ,384
       
Net book amount       
At 31 March 2013 128 866 39 122,471 347 860 124,711
At 31 March 2014 108 866 202 113,334 250 718 115,478
Under the terms of the Secured Bond agreement, the Bondholders have a fixed and floating charge over these assets.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
64
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
13 Interest in joint arrangements 
Interests in joint operations
The Group, jointly with other participants, has an interest in PEDL 139 and PEDL 140. The Group’s share is 14.5%. 
Farm-out-arrangement 
The Group and its partners entered into an agreement with Total E&P UK Limited (“Total”), under which Total acquire at a 40% interest in 
the UK. Onshore PEDL 139 and PEDL 140 located in the Gainsborough Trough in Lincolnshire. Under the agreement, Total agreed to fund  
a fully carried work programme of up to US$46.5 million with a minimum commitment of US$19.5 million. On 4th February 2014,  
the Farm-out Agreement with Total was completed and the Group became the operator of these licences. 
 
14 Inventories
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Oil Stock    795 836
Drilling materials    228 43
Maintenance materials    321 177
    1,344 1,056
15 Trade and other receivables
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
VAT recoverable    1,096 305
Trade debtors    5,962 6,529
Other debtors    2,798 404
Prepayments    1,547 1,331
    11,403 8,569
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 day terms. The carrying value of the Group’s trade and other 
receivables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The ageing of the financial assets (trade debtors and certain other debtors) is as follows:
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Not yet due    8,097 6,783
Amounts overdue but not impaired:  
Overdue by not more than three months    – –
More than three months but not more than six months    – –
More than six months but not more than one year*    155 –
    8,252 6,783
* Outstanding amount relates to the receivables acquired as part of the Caithness acquisition. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
65
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Cash and cash equivalents
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand    28,301 9,831
    28,301 9,831
The carrying value of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation of their  
fair value.
The Group only deposits cash surpluses with major banks that have acceptable credit ratings of “A” or better, with the exception of banks 
where the UK government is the major shareholder.
Other financial assets – Restricted cash
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Restricted cash    – 102,865
    – 102,865
On 22 March 2013 the Company issued bonds to a value of US$156.2 million. The cash relating to these bonds were received into,  
and held in, escrow, remaining restricted until all of the conditions precedent were satisfied in relation to the Bond issued.
On 10 April 2013, all conditions precedent were met by the Group and the funds in escrow were reclassified as cash and cash equivalents. 
Part of these funds were used to repay the bank facility agreement with Macquarie Bank Ltd, plus outstanding interest and all associated 
break fees, termination fees and costs of closing out hedges. See note 18 for further details of refinancing.
17 Current liabilities
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Trade and other payables:  
Trade creditors    3,989 2,102
Employment related taxation    295 209
Accruals and other creditors    6,676 11,745
    10,960 14,056
The carrying value of each of the Group’s financial liabilities is considered to be a reasonable approximation of its fair value. All creditors 
are payable within one month and no creditors have been outstanding for longer than three months (2013: all within one month). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
66
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
18 Borrowings
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39.
 31 March 2014  31 March 2013
 Within  Greater  Within Greater
 1 year  than 1 year Total 1 year than 1 year Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Bonds – secured* 4,948 87,186 92,134 5,466 94,942 100,408
Bonds – unsecured* – 16,567 16,567 – – –
Sub total 4,948 103,753 108,701 5,466 94,942 100,408
Macquarie – – – 89,710 – 89,710
Total 4,948 103,753 108,701 95,176 94,942 190,118
      
* Transaction costs of raising debt of £3.7 million (2013: £2.8 million) have been netted off against the liability.
 
Bond issuance
Secured Bonds
On 21 March 2013, the Company and Norsk Tillitsmann (“Bond Trustee”) entered into a Bond Agreement for the Company to issue  
up to US$165.0 million secured bonds. At 31 March 2013 US$156.2 million of bonds had been placed with the funds paid into escrow.
By 10 April 2013, the conditions precedent under the Bond Agreement were met, with the related cash then released from escrow  
to the Company. Part of the net proceeds of the Bond were used to repay the outstanding loan balance with Macquarie Bank Ltd,  
plus outstanding interest and all associated break fees, termination fees and to pay costs associated with closing out hedges.  
The remainder is being used for general corporate purposes by the Group.
The Bond carries a coupon of 10% per annum (where interest is payable semi-annually in arrears) and semi-annual amortisation  
of 2.5% of the initial loan amount. Final maturity on the notes will be 22 March 2018.
The Bond Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for an instrument of this nature.  
Such covenants include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance  
of financial ratios and certain restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, 
incurrence of financial indebtedness and on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Bond Agreement 
also contains customary events of default, the occurrence of which allows The Bond Trustee (on behalf of the bond holders) to accelerate 
outstanding bonds and terminate the commitments. Under the terms of the Secured Bond agreement, the Bondholders have a fixed  
and floating charge over all these assets.
Unsecured Bonds
On 11 December 2013, the Company and Norsk Tillitsmann (“Bond Trustee”) entered into a Bond Agreement for the Company to issue 
US$30.0 million unsecured bonds, issued at 96% of par. The new bonds have been listed on the Alternative bond market in Oslo and the 
proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes.
The Bond carries a coupon of 10% per annum (where interest is payable semi-annually in arrears) and has a borrowing limit of  
US$60.0 million. Final maturity on the notes will be 11 December 2018.
The Bond Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for an instrument of this nature.  
Such covenants include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance  
of financial ratios and certain restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, 
incurrence of financial indebtedness and on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Bond Agreement 
also contains customary events of default, the occurrence of which allows The Bond Trustee (on behalf of the bond holders) to  
accelerate outstanding bonds and terminate the commitments.
Macquarie financing
At 31 March 2013, the Group had outstanding borrowings with Macquarie (Macquarie facilities) but was undergoing a refinancing.  
In accordance with IAS 1 the Macquarie facilities were re-classified as current liabilities as at 31 March 2013 as the Group had intended  
to repay these facilities upon completion of the Bonds. The facilities were re-measured to £89.7 million at 31 March 2013 to take into 
account the change in the estimated future cashflows to repay the Macquarie facilities. A £7.6 million loss on re-measurement was 
recognised in finance costs in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2013. On 10 April 2013, the Macquarie facilities were 
repaid in full, being the re-measured amount, plus £0.3 million of accrued interest.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
67
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19 Other liabilities
     £000
At 1 April 2012     2,806
Warrants issued during year     –
Revaluation loss     5,402 
As at 31 March 2013     8,208
Warrants issued during year     –
Warrants exercised during year     (9,508)
Revaluation loss     8,104
As at 31 March 2014     6,804
During the year the Group issued 9,975,657 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 10p each upon the exercise of £9.5 million warrants 
(31 March 2013: nil shares issued).
Warrants issued can be exercised in three different ways and, although the cost to the Group would be the same under each exercise 
option, these warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS 39 due to the variable number of shares that would be issued in 
each case. Accordingly they have been accounted for as financial liabilities.
All warrants vested on grant and accordingly the key assumptions made in arriving at the Black-Scholes valuations were: share price on 
date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the warrants were expected 
to remain exercisable. A risk free interest rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the warrants at the time of 
grant, and an interest rate of 1.38% and an implied volatility of 43.13% at 31 March 2014. It was also assumed that no dividends would be 
paid during the life of the warrants.
The movement in warrants during the period was as follows:
     Weighted
     average 
     exercise price 
    No. (pence)
At 1 April 2012    21,286,646 55.8
Granted in year    – –
Lapsed in year    – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2013    21,286,646 55.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2013    21,286,646 55.8
Granted in year    – –
Lapsed in year    – –
Exercised in the year    12,286,646 55.8
Outstanding at 31 March 2014    9,000,000 55.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2014    9,000,000 55.8
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the warrants outstanding as at 31 March 2014 is 3.75 years. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
68
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges
 2014  2013
 Decommissioning  Other Total Decommissioning Other Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At the beginning of the year 28,930 75 29,005 18,283 100 18,383
Acquisition of a subsidiary 781 – 781 4,776 – 4,776
Unwinding of discount 562 – 562 457 – 457
Reassessment of decommissioning provision/liabilities (1,932) – (1,932) 5,419 – 5,419
Utilisation/write back of provision (153) (15) (168) (5) (25) (30)
At the end of the year 28,188 60 28,248 28,930 75 29,005
Provision has been made for the discounted future cost of restoring fields to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.  
The abandonment of the fields is expected to happen at various times between 1 to 35 years from the period end. These provisions have 
been created based on the Groups’ internal estimates. Assumptions based on the current economic environment have been made, which 
management believes are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability. These estimates are reviewed regularly to take 
into account any material changes to the assumptions. However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market 
prices for the necessary decommissioning works required that will reflect market conditions at the relevant time. Furthermore, the timing 
of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates. This, in turn, will depend upon 
future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain.
The risk free rate range of 0.25% to 3.02% is used in the calculation of the provision as at 31 March 2014 (2013: Risk free rate range  
of 0.25% to 3.02%).
21 Pension Scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension charge for the year ended 31 March 2014 represents 
contributions payable by the Group to pension funds and amounted to £760,000 (2013: £571,000).
Contributions amounting to £321,958 (2013: £97,500) were accrued at 31 March 2014 and are included in creditors.
22 Commitments
The Group’s capital commitments comprised:
Capital commitments:    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Obligation under 13th licensing round    1,320 2,000
Total capital commitments    1,320 2,000
  
Operating lease commitments:     Year  Year
    ended  ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in profit for the year    1,919 1,661
At the balance sheet date the Group had minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases  
 for each of the following years:  
– expiring within 1 year    505 496
– expiring within 2 to 5 years    1,244 1,634
– over 5 years    – 378
Total    1,749 2,508
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
69
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Financial instruments and risk management
Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with 
carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values, are as follows: 
  Carrying amount 
 
Fair value
  31 March  31 March 31 March 31 March
  2014  2013 2014 2013
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial liabilities    
Amortised cost    
 Borrowings (floating rate)
1
  – 89,710 – 89,710
 Borrowings (fixed rate)
1
  108,701 100,408 112,326 103,150
Fair value through profit and loss    
 Commodity price derivatives
2
  50 9,222 50 9,222
 Interest rate swaps
2
  – 779 – 779
 Warrants
3
  6,804 8,208 6,804 8,208
1 The fair value of borrowings and other financial liabilities (hierarchy level 2) have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing market  
interest rates for instruments with substantially the same terms and characteristics.
2 The fair value of commodity price derivatives are determined using the Black-Scholes model with adjustments to volatility regarding the type of the option.  
Interest swaps are determined using discounted cash flow analysis at quoted commodity prices.
3 The fair value of warrants (hierarchy level 2) is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Fair value hierarchy
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
• Level 2: other valuation techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either 
directly or indirectly; and 
• Level 3: valuation techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data. 
For financial instruments there are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers between levels of the  
fair value hierarchy.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at the reporting dates as follows:
  Level 1  Level 2 Level 3 Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2014    
Derivative financial instruments    
Commodity price derivatives  – 50 – 50
Warrants  – 6,804 – 6,804
Total  – 6,854 – 6,854
    
At 31 March 2013    
Derivative financial instruments    
Commodity price swaps  – 9,222 – 9,222
Interest rate swaps  – 779 – 779
Warrants  – 8,208 – 8,208
Total  – 18,209 – 18,209
The fair values of the commodity price options at 31 March 2014 were provided by counterparties with whom the trades have been 
entered into. These consist of Asian style put and call options to sell/buy oil. The options are valued using a Black-Scholes methodology; 
however, certain adjustments are made to the spot-price volatility of oil prices due to the nature of the options. These adjustments are 
made either through Monte Carlo simulations or through statistical formulae. The inputs to these valuations include the price of oil,  
its volatility, and risk free interest rates. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
70
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
23 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Fair value hierarchy continued
The fair values of the commodity price and interest rate swaps at 31 March 2013 were valued using valuation techniques with market 
observable inputs. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of the counterparty and forward rate curves  
of the underlying commodity.
The warrants are valued using Black-Scholes method, which incorporates the inputs as detailed in note 19.
Derivative financial instruments
In the current year the Group has entered into certain put/call options in order to manage its exposure to commodity price risk associated 
with sales of oil in US dollars. 
The outstanding contracts as at 31 March 2014 were as follows:
      Fair value at
      31 March 2014
 Term Contract amount Contract price/rate Contract price/rate Contract price/rate £000
   Buy Put Sell Call Buy Call 
GB pound puts Apr – Jun 2014 60k bbls oil GBP55.70/bbl – – 2
US dollar puts Apr – Jun 2014 130k bbls oil US$90/bbl  – – 3
US dollar calls Jul – Sept 2014 200k bbls oil US$90/bbl US$115.25/bbl US$125/bbl (53)
US dollar calls Oct – Dec 2014 200k bbls oil US$90/bbl US$115/bbl US$125/bbl (2)
The above derivatives mature over the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014. During the year to 31 March 2014 oil hedges for 
972 thousand barrels (2013: 573 thousand barrels) matured generating a net cost of £2.1 million (2013: £5.9 million). 
The outstanding contracts as at 31 March 2013 were as follows:
      Fair value at
     Average Fixed 31 March 2013
  Term Contract amount Contract price/rate Price/Rate £000
US dollar commodity price swaps 2013–2017 1,251 Mbbls oil US$90–US$105.65/bbl US$97 .97/bbl 2,060
Pound sterling commodity price swaps 2013–2017 1,610 Mbbls oil GBP56.70–GBP63.60/bbl GBP60.74/bbl 7 ,162
Interest rate swaps 2012–2016 US$51.9m declining  0.91%–1.36% 1.20% 779 
  to US$22.8m
The Group‘s interest rate swaps matured over the period from 1 April 2013 to 13 December 2016 with a profile linked to the expected 
repayment of principal on the Macquarie Facilities prior to the refinancing in April 2013. As no derivative instrument was designated  
for hedge accounting, all gains and losses were recognised immediately in the Income Statement within finance costs. All derivatives  
at 31 December 2013 were settled in early 2014 as part of the refinancing (see note 18).
Financial risk management
The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, warrants and trade and other payables. The main 
purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations, including the Group’s capital expenditure programme, and to 
fund acquisitions. The Group has trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations 
and restricted cash. The Group also enters into derivative transactions. 
The Group manages its exposure to key financial risks in accordance with its financial risk management policy. The objective of the policy 
is to support the Group’s financial targets while protecting future financial security. The Group is exposed to the following risks:
• Market risk, including commodity price and foreign currency risks
• Credit risk 
• Liquidity risk 
The Group is not exposed to interest rate risk as at 31 March 2014 as all Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate.
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. It is the Group’s policy that all 
transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Group. The Group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative exposures. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
71
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market factors, 
such as commodity price and foreign currency. 
The sensitivity analyses below have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt and the proportion of financial instruments 
in foreign currencies are all constant and that financial derivatives are held to maturity. The sensitivity analysis is intended to illustrate the 
sensitivity to changes in market variables on the Group’s financial instruments and show the impact on profit or loss and shareholders’ 
equity, where applicable. 
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: 
• The sensitivity of the relevant profit before tax item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the 
financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013; and
• The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax and ignores the effects of deferred tax, if any.
Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in prevailing market commodity prices (primarily crude oil) on the mix of oil and gas 
products it produces. The Group’s policy is to manage these risks through the use of derivative financial instruments. 
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in commodity prices on the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax as these derivative financial instruments have not been 
designated as hedges and are classified as held-for-trading. 
The analysis is based on hedges existing at balance sheet date, the assumption that crude oil price moves 10% over all future periods,  
with all other variables held constant. 
   Increase/(decrease) in profit before tax
    for the year ended and to
    equity as at 
    31 March 31 March
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
10% increase in the price of oil    (8) (15,681)
10% decrease in the price of oil    8 15,681
Foreign currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in currencies other than the UK pound 
sterling, the functional currency of all Group Companies. The Group’s sales are denominated in US dollars, and around 5% of costs are 
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities within the Group, primarily US dollars. The Group manages 
this risk through the use of derivative financial instruments (commodity puts) which fix the price of oil in pounds sterling. 
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in the US dollar/pound sterling exchange rate on the financial 
assets and liabilities in the balance sheet at period end. The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the pound moves 10%, with all other variables held constant. 
   Increase/(decrease) in profit before tax
    for the year ended and to
    equity as at 
    31 March 31 March
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
10% strengthening of the pound against the US dollar    7,938 8,694
10% weakening of the pound against the US dollar    (7,938) (8,694)
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s policy to assess the credit risk of new customers 
before entering contracts. Under this policy, each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard 
payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, when available, and in some cases 
bank and trade references. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
23 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Credit risk continued 
The exposure to credit risk from credit sales is not considered significant given the small number of well-established credit customers and 
zero historic default rate.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had 2 customers (2013: 2) that owed the Group more than £2 million each and accounted for approximately 
83% (2013: 90%) of all receivables owing. The need for impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major 
clients.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and restricted 
cash, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount 
of these instruments. The Group limits its counterparty credit risk on these assets by dealing only with financial institutions with credit 
ratings of at least A or equivalent other than if the UK government is a majority shareholder. £28.3 million (2013: £9.8 million)  
of cash and cash equivalents were held with a single institution.
Refer to note 15 for analysis of trade receivables ageing.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and  
actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and future capital and operating commitments.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March based on contractual  
undiscounted payments: 
 On demand  < 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years >3 years Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2014      
Borrowings (fixed rate) – 16,181 15,708 15,178 108,271 155,338
Trade and other payables – 3,989 – – – 3,989
Warrants – 6,804 – – – 6,804
Derivative financial instruments      
 Commodity price derivatives – 50 – – – 50
 – 27,024 15,708 15,178 108,271 166,181
      
At 31 March 2013      
Borrowings (floating rate) – 89,710 – – – 89,710
Borrowings (fixed rate) – 11,071 10,769 10,491 100,669 133,000
Trade and other payables – 2,102 – – – 2,102
Warrants – 8,208 – – – 8,208
Derivative financial instruments      
 Commodity price swaps – 9,222 – – – 9,222
 Interest rate swaps – 779 – – – 779
 – 121,092 10,769 10,491 100,669 243,021
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising 
from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it remains sufficiently funded to support its business strategy and maximise shareholder 
value. The Group’s funding needs are met through a combination of debt and equity (2013: funding requirements met through  
a combination of debt and equity) and adjustments are made in light of changes in economic conditions. The Group’s capital structure 
changed in the period to 31 March 2012 as a result of the acquisitions it made and the related financing. The Group’s strategy is  
to maintain ratios in line with covenants associated with the issued bonds.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity plus net debt. The Group includes within net  
debt, interest bearing bank loans less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Capital includes share capital, share premium,  
other reserves and accumulated losses. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
73
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Share capital 
On 31 December 2007 the Company completed a reverse takeover whereby Island Gas Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary  
of the Company but with IGL’s shareholders acquiring 94% of the Ordinary Share capital of the combined entity (the “Reverse”).
In accordance with the required accounting for a reverse, the nominal value of the Company’s share capital is not reflected in the  
Group’s consolidated equity. For the purposes of the consolidated accounts share capital was recorded at the date of the Reverse  
at a value equal to the deemed cost of the Reverse, being the adjusted market value of the Company as last quoted immediately  
prior to the announcement of the Reverse, plus the equity of IGL; the effective acquiring Company.
  Ordinary Shares 
 
Deferred Shares Restated
   £000  £000
  No. Nominal value No. Nominal value
Issued and fully paid    
1 April 2012, Ordinary Shares of 50p each  162,204,909 81,102 – –
16 August 2012 share conversion of each issued     
Ordinary Shares of 50p each into:  (162,204,909) (81,102) – –
New Ordinary Shares of 10p each*  162,204,909 16,220 – –
New Deferred Shares of 40p each*  –  –  162,204,909 64,882
Cancellation of Deferred Shares of 40p each*  –  –  (162,204,909) (64,882) 
15 January 2013 shares issued at a price of 95p each  24,330,730 2,433 – –
31 March 2013, Ordinary Shares of 10p each  186,535,639 18,653 – –
31 March 2013, Deferred Shares of 40p each (Restated)  – – – –
22 April 2013 shares issued at a price of 77p each  475,002 48 – –
22 June 2013 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  3,000,000 300 – –
23 July 2013 shares issued at a price of 83p each  70,934 7 – –
26 July 2013 shares issued at a price of 10p each  2,975,656 297 – –
15 August 2013 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  2,000,000 200 – –
22 October 2013 shares issued at a price of 101p each  87,696 9 – –
5 December 2013 shares issued at a price of 115p each   7,488,301 749 – –
22 Jan 2014 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  2,000,001 200 – –
22 Jan 2014 shares issued at a price of 101p each  91,533 9 – –
31 March 2014, Ordinary Shares of 10p each  204,724,762 20,472 – –
31 March 2014, Deferred Shares of 40p each  – – – –
* On 16 August 2012 the Company converted each Ordinary Share of 50p each into a New Ordinary Share of 10p each and a New Deferred Share of 40p each pursuant to 
an obligation to Macquarie Bank Limited under the terms of the warrants issued during the period ended 31 March 2012. The New Ordinary Shares carry the same rights 
as attached to Ordinary Shares. Deferred Shares have no voting rights and shall not be entitled to any dividends or any other right or participation in the profits of the 
Company. The Company had the right to purchase all the issued New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate consideration of one penny. On 16 August 2012, 
the Company repurchased the New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate consideration of one penny. These shares were subsequently cancelled by the 
Company.
Accordingly, the Group share capital account comprised:
     £000
     As Restated
Share capital account 
At 1 April 2012     54,213
Shares issued during the year     2,433 
Cancellation of deferred shares     (41,239)
At 31 March 2013 (Restated)     15,407
Shares issued during the year     1,819
At 31 March 2014     17,226
25 Share premium and capital redemption reserve account
Share premium
The share premium account of the Group arises from the capital that the Company raises upon issuing shares for consideration in excess 
of the nominal value of the shares, net of the costs of issuing the new shares. During the year the Company issued 18,189,123 Ordinary 
Shares at a nominal value of 10p each (2013: 24,330,730 shares issued). The cost of these issues was £nil million (2013: £0.9 million). 
Together these events resulted in a net movement in the Share Premium reserve of £11.6 million (2013: £19.7 million). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 Share premium and capital redemption reserve account continued
Capital redemption reserve
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Company repurchased 100% of its outstanding deferred shares which had been issued with 
a nominal value of 40p each. These deferred shares were subsequently cancelled by the Company. This resulted in a reduction in share 
capital and a corresponding recognition of a Capital Redemption Reserve of £41.2 million. 
26 Other reserves
Other reserves can be analysed as follows:
  Warrant/Share  Treasury Capital
  Plan Reserves  Shares Contributions Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance 1 April 2012  112 (1,299) 47 (1,140)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2  343 – – 343
Capital contribution  – – – –
Balance 31 March 2013  455 (1,299) 47 (797)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2  577 – – 577
Employee share plans – shares issued under the SIP  – (447) – (447)
Balance 31 March 2014  1,032 (1,746) 47 (667)
Employee share plans – Equity settled
Details of the Share Options under employee share plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
 2011 LTIP  2010 LTIP 
 
Share Option Plan
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average  average
 Number of  exercise price Number of exercise price Number of exercise price
 Options (pence) Options (pence) Options (pence)
Outstanding at 1 April 2012 2,107,485 – 50,000 – 411,274 70 
Granted during the year 1,071,542 – – – – –
Forfeited during the year –  – (50,000) – (237,773) (70)
Lapsed during the year – – – – (173,501) (70)
Exercised during the year – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2013 3,179,027 – – – – –
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 – – – – – – 
Granted during the year 466,203 – – – – –
Forfeited during the year (48,730) – –  – –
Lapsed during the year – – – – – –
Exercised during the year – – –  – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2014 3,596,500 – – – – –
Exercisable at 31 March 2014 – – – – – –
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”)
In November 2011 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP , 
participants can each be granted nil cost options over up to 300% of remuneration for the Initial Award and up to 150% of remuneration 
for the Annual Award (subject to an overall plan limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has 
a three year performance period and awards vest subject to share price performance exceeding the Company’s weighted average cost of 
capital of 10%. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a proportion of the options that vest will take into 
account items such as the time the Option has been held by the participant and the performance achieved in the period from the grant 
date. Other than on a change of control, 100% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting. 
There were no LTIPs exercised during the year. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2014 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and maximum term remaining of 7.8 years (2013: 8.5 years).
The total charge for the year was £297 thousand (2013: £218 thousand). Of this amount, £97 thousand was capitalised (2013:  
£26 thousand) and £200 thousand was charged to the Income Statement (2013: £192 thousand) in relation to the fair value  
of the awards granted under the plan measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model.
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
75
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26 Other reserves continued
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”) continued
The inputs into the Monte Carlo models were as follows:
     2011 LTIP 
      Granted  Granted 
    Nov 11 Sep 13
Weighted average share price    50.5p 102.0p
Weighted average exercise price    Nil Nil
Expected volatility    35% 43%
Expected life    6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate    0.70% 0.85%
Expected dividends    0% 0%
Weighted average fair value of awards granted    23.12p 50.90p
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 (“LTIP”)
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP , 
participants could each be granted nil cost options over up to 1.5% of the issued share capital of the Company (subject to an overall plan 
limit of 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP had a three year performance period and awards 
vested subject to the achievement of stretching share price targets. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, 
a revised share price target reflecting the reduction in the performance period shall instead be used to determine the extent to which LTIP 
options vest. Other than on a change of control, 50% of vested awards could be exercised and sold on vesting, with the remaining 50% 
becoming exercisable on the first anniversary of vesting. There were no LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2014 (31 March 2013: nil).
The total charge of £nil (2013: £2 thousand) for the year was charged to the Income Statement in relation to the fair value of the awards 
granted under the LTIP scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The key assumptions made in arriving at the Monte Carlo valuations were: share price on date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent 
consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the LTIPs were expected to remain exercisable. A risk free interest rate 
of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the LTIPs at the time of granting. It was also assumed that no dividends 
would be paid during the life of the LTIPs.
Share Option Plan
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Share Option Plan for certain key employees of the Group. Both executives and employees 
could participate in the Share Option Plan. Typically each individual participant could be granted options under the Share Option Plan 
with a market value at grant of up to 100% of his base salary, although this limit could be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Share 
Options vested in three equal tranches over a three year period from the date of grant and vested options were exercisable subject to the 
attainment of a Company share price target. 
2010 grants under the Share Option Plan were subject to an exercise price of 70p per share.
There were no options exercised during the year. There were no unvested options outstanding at 31 March 2014.
The total charge for the year was £nil thousand (2013: £nil). Awards granted under the Share Option scheme are measured at grant date 
using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model.
The key assumptions made in arriving at the Monte Carlo valuations were: share price on date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent 
consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the options were expected to remain exercisable. A risk free interest 
rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the options at the time of granting. It was also assumed that no 
dividends would be paid during the life of the options. 
Other share based payments
During the year, certain employees agreed to settle bonuses earned in the year ended 31 March 2014 in Share Options. The number 
of Share Options issued was 190,710 (31 March 2013: 216,850) with a fair value of £177 thousand (31 March 2013: £149 thousand), 
measured indirectly with reference to the value of the option. Due to the fact that the options vested immediately with £nil strike price 
and no conditions, the fair value of the option equals the market price of the share at the grant date. There were no options exercised 
during the year. The options outstanding at 31 March 2014 had both a weighted average remaining contractual life and a maximum term 
of 8.6 years (31 March 2013: 8.75 years). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes
continued
26 Other reserves continued
Other share based payments continued
In 2013, the Group adopted an Inland Revenue approved Share Investment Plan (“SIP”) for all employees of the Group. The scheme is 
a tax efficient incentive plan pursuant to which all employees are eligible to acquire up to £125 (or 10% of salary, if less) worth of IGas 
Ordinary Shares per month or £1,500 per annum. Under the SIP employees are invited to make contributions to buy partnership shares.  
If an employee agrees to buy partnership shares the Company currently matches the number of partnership shares bought with an award 
of shares (matching shares), on a one-for-one or two-for-one basis. 
The total charge for the year was £102 thousand (2013: £nil).
Treasury shares 
The Treasury shares of the Group have arisen in connection with;
The shares issued to the IGas Employee Benefit Trust, of which the Company is the sponsoring entity. The value of such shares is recorded 
in the share capital and share premium accounts in the ordinary way and is also shown as a deduction from equity in this separate reserve 
account; there is therefore no net effect on shareholders’ funds. During the year ended to 31 March 2014 there were no shares issued to 
the Employee Benefit Trust (2013: nil).
Capital contribution 
The capital contribution of £47 thousand was received in cash following the acquisition of IGAS Exploration UK Limited.
27 Related party transactions
The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and related parties in the normal course of business for  
the year ended 31 March 2014.
Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Nexen Petroleum UK Limited are no longer considered related by virtue of having less than a 20% share interest in the Group. 
F Gugen currently holds US$2.80 million bonds issued by the Group. These bonds earn interest at 10% per annum. In the year ended  
31 March 2014, interest paid was US$0.4 million (2013: US$nil). Accrued interest at 31 March 2014 amounted to US$7.8 thousand  
(31 March 2013: US$13.9 thousand).
C McDowell currently holds US$0.29 million bonds issued in the Group. These bonds earn interest at 10% per annum. In the year ended  
31 March 2014, the interest paid was US$0.03 million (2013: US$nil). Accrued interest at 31 March 2014 amounted to US$0.8 thousand  
(31 March 2013: US$nil).
The Directors of the Company are considered to be the only key management personnel as defined by IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures. 
Transactions with key management personnel were as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Short-term employee benefits    2,039 1,946
Share plan    186 162
    2,225  2,108
Short-term employee benefits: These amounts comprise fees paid to the Directors in respect of salary and benefits earned during the 
relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Share plan: This is the cost to the Group of Directors’ participation in LTIPs and Share Option Plans, as measured by the fair value of LTIPs 
and options granted, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
Further details regarding the remuneration of the Directors of the Group are disclosed in note 5. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
77
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28 Subsequent events
Acquisitions 
On 9 May 2014, the Company and Dart Energy limited (‘’Dart’’) announced that they have reached an agreement on the terms of  
a recommended acquisition by IGas of Dart, which values the total share capital of Dart at approximately A$211.5 million on a fully  
diluted basis (being equivalent to £117.1 million). The acquisition will be via an Australian Scheme of Arrangement on a share  
exchange basis.
The combination will create a market leading onshore UK oil and gas Company with the largest area in the UK under licence of over  
1 million net acres including major UK shale basins.
It is anticipated that the transaction will be completed in September 2014.
Hedging
In May 2014, the Group entered into new hedging arrangements by acquiring a series of put and call options for c.167,000 barrels  
at US$90/barrel and equivalent GBP over the period January to March 2015.
Issued Shares
On 8 April 2014, Macquarie exercised warrants over 1,500,000 ordinary 10p shares. The warrants were exercised at 55.8p per share.
On 22 April 2014, the Company issued 91,239 Ordinary 10p shares in relation to the Groups SIP scheme. 
29 Restatement
As previously disclosed, during the year ended 31 March 2013 the Company repurchased 100% of its outstanding deferred shares.  
The deferred shares were not listed and therefore did not qualify as shares held in treasury. These shares were subsequently cancelled  
by the Company. As a result the prior year comparative information has been restated to reflect the cancellation of these deferred  
shares. This has resulted in a reduction in share capital of £41.2 million and a corresponding recognition of a Capital Redemption Reserve 
of £41.2million. There is no net effect on Shareholders’ funds.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
78
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Financial Statements –  
Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities in Respect Thereof
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRSs”).
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present 
fairly the financial position of the Parent Company and its financial performance and cash flows for that period. In preparing the Parent 
Company financial statements the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then 
apply them consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Parent Company’s financial position and financial performance;
• state that the Parent Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Parent Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements and, having a reasonable expectation that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, will continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
79
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IGas Energy plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the 
Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Changes  
in Equity, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 18. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we  
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express  
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit and  
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider  
the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of IGas Energy plc for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Daniel Trotman 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
25 June 2014 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
80
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 March 2014
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Profit/(loss) for the year    17,889 (26,117)
Other comprehensive income for the year    – –
Total comprehensive profit /(loss) for the year    17,889 (26,117)
  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
81
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2014
     31 March
     2013
     31 March £000
     2014  Restated
   Notes £000 (note 18)
Non-current assets   
Investments in subsidiaries   2 255,401 217,912
Property, plant and equipment   3 369 57
    255,770 217,969
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables   4 45,453 55,745
Cash and cash equivalents   5 16,655 3,596
Other financial assets – Restricted cash   5 – 102,865
    62,108 162,206
   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables   6 (55,973) (75,694)
Borrowings – Bond   8 (4,948) (5,466)
Borrowings – Macquarie   8 – (89,710)
Other liabilities   9 (6,804) (8,208)
Derivative financial instruments   11 – (779)
    (67,725) (179,857)
Net current liabilities    (5,617) (17,651)
Total assets less current liabilities    250,153 200,318
   
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings – Bond   8 (103,753) (94,942)
    (103,753) (94,942)
Net assets    146,400 105,376
   
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital   12 20,472 18,653
Share premium account   13 62,825 41,639
Capital redemption reserve   13 64,882 64,882
Merger reserve   14 22,222 22,222
Other reserves   15  (667) (797)
Accumulated deficit    (23,334) (41,223)
Shareholders’ funds    146,400 105,376
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 25 June 2014 and are signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Austin Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
82
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 March 2014
   Capital
 Called up Share redemption
 share capital premium reserve Merger Other
 (note 12) account (note 13) reserve reserves Accumulated
 £000  (note 13) £000 (note 14) (note 15) deficit Total
 Restated  £000  Restated £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 April 2012 81,102 21,928 – 22,222 (1,140) (15,134) 108,978
       
Changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2013       
(Restated)
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – – – (26,117) (26,117)
Employee share plans (note 15) – – – – 343 28 371
Cancellation of Deferred Shares (note 13) (64,882) – 64,882 – – – –
Issue of Shares 2,433 19,711 – – – – 22,144
Balance at 31 March 2013 (Restated) 18,653 41,639 64,882 22,222 (797) (41,223) 105,376
       
Changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2014       
Total comprehensive profit for the year – – – – – 17,889 17,889
Employee share plans (note 15) – – – – 130 – 130
Warrants exercised (note 9) – 9,508 – – – – 9,508
Issue of shares 1,819 11,678 – – – – 13,497
Balance at 31 March 2014 20,472 62,825 64,882 22,222 (667) (23,334) 146,400
        IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
83
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2014
    Year ended  Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
   Notes £000 £000
Operating activities:   
Profit/(loss) for the year    17,889 (26,117)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation    87 25
Share based payment charge    75 54
Finance income    (18,587) (5,678)
Finance costs    22,320 28,028
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables    150 122
(Decrease) in trade and other payables    (962) (1,009)
Net cash from/(used) in operating activities    20,972 (4,575)
   
Investing activities   
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    (399) (10)
Loans granted to subsidiaries**    (26,543) (13,951)
Interest received    44 20
Net cash used in investing activities    (26,898) (13,941)
   
Financing activities   
Cash proceeds from issue of Ordinary Share Capital net of issue costs   13 4,451 23,144
Share issue costs   13 – (970)
Interest paid    (10,458) (6,692)
Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings*    33,724 21,410
Loan issue costs    (3,690) (1,887)
Repayment of loans and borrowings    (5,128) (16,735)
Net cash from financing activities    18,899 18,240
   
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year    12,973 (275)
Net foreign exchange difference    86 419
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year    3,596 3,452
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   5 16,655 3,596
  
* Cash proceeds from loans and borrowings are shown net and consists of gross proceeds from bond borrowings of £126.2 million less repayment of Macquarie 
loan of £89.7 million and hedges and early cancellation fees of £2.8 million. Further details on the repayment of the Macquarie loan can be found in note 8.
** Loan repaid was not settled in cash (see note 2). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
84
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
As at 31 March 2014
1 Accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements
The Parent Company financial statements of IGas Energy plc (the “Company”) have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, adopted for use by the European Union (“IFRSs”) as they apply to the 
Company for the year ended 31 March 2014, and with the Companies Act 2006. The accounts were approved by the board and authorised 
for issue on 25 June 2014. IGas Energy plc is a public limited Company incorporated, registered in England and Wales and is listed on the 
Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”).
The Company’s financial statements are presented in UK pound sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except 
when otherwise indicated. 
As a Consolidated Income Statement is published in this Annual Report, a separate Income Statement for the Company is not presented 
within these financial statements as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, the Company adopted the following new and amended IFRSs which were applicable to the Company’s activities as  
of 1 April 2013.
  
     Eff ecti ve date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS):
IFRS 7 IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The amendments to IFRS 7 on offsetting of  1 January 2013
  financial instruments are intended to clarify existing application issues relating to the offsetting 
rules and reduce the level of diversity in current practice. The Company has considered the 
effect of this amendment and has concluded that there has not been a material impact on  
the financial statements. 
IFRS 13 IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement – IFRS 13 defines fair value, setting out in a single IFRS  1 January 2013
  a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosure about fair value measurements. 
IFRS 13 applies when other IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements. It does not 
introduce any new requirements to measure an asset or liability at fair value, change what 
is measured at fair value in IFRS or address how to present changes in fair value. The new 
standard also requires new disclosures to assist users to understand the valuation techniques 
and inputs used to develop fair value measurement and the effect of fair value measurement 
on profit and loss. The relevant disclosures is provided in note 11. The Group has concluded 
that there has not been a material impact on the measurement of assets and liabilities.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
85
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(a) Basis of preparation of financial statements continued
New and amended standards and interpretations
Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory only for the 
Company’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2014 or later periods but which the Company has not adopted early.  
Those that may be applicable to the Company in future are as follows: 
    For financial period 
    commencing on or after
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS) 
  
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments Not yet stated
IAS 19 IAS 19 – Employee Benefits (Revised) 1 July 2014
IAS 32 IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014
IAS 36 IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non – Financial Assets disposal 1 January 2014
  
The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will either individually or collectively have a 
material impact on the Company’s financial statements in the period of initial application. The Company does not anticipate adopting 
these standards and interpretations ahead of their effective date.
(b) Going concern
The Company regularly monitors forecasts to determine that breaches in covenants are not anticipated to occur in the future. On the basis 
of the Company’s current forecasts, no breaches in covenants are anticipated. However these forecasts are based on certain assumptions 
particularly in relation to oil prices, production rates, operating costs, capital and general expenditure. After reviewing the Company’s 
budgets and cash flow projections for 2014 and 2015, and taking into consideration the current operating environment, mitigating factors 
which are within the control of the Group, the risks and the Company’s liquidity risk management outlined in note 11, the Directors are 
satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue as a going concern. It is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the 2013-2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
(c) Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have  
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below: 
Carrying value of investment in subsidiaries:
The Company evaluates investments in subsidiaries that have been accounted for at fair value of consideration paid at acquisition 
less provision for impairment as described in (d) below. Any impairment review, where required, involves estimates and associated 
assumptions related to matters (when appropriate), such as recoverable reserves; production profiles; forward gas and electricity prices; 
development, operational and offtake costs; nature of land access agreements and planning permissions; application of taxes, and other 
matters. Where the final outcome or revised estimates related to such matters differ from the estimates used in any earlier impairment 
reviews, the results of such differences, to the extent that they actually affected any impairment provisions, are accounted for when  
such revisions are made. Details of the Company’s investments are disclosed in note 2.
Functional currency
The determination of a Company’s functional currency often requires significant judgement where the primary economic environment  
in which it operates may not be clear. The Company reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the events  
and conditions which determines the primary economic environment. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
86
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(d) Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in Group Companies held as non-current assets are held at cost less provision for impairment unless the investments were 
acquired in exchange for the issue or part issue of shares in the Company, when they are initially recorded in the Company’s balance sheet 
at the fair value of the shares issued together with the fair value of any consideration paid, including costs of acquisition less any provision 
for impairment which may subsequently be required.
The Company’s investments in Group Companies held as non-current assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable, when impairment is calculated on the basis as set 
out below. Any impairment is charged to the Income Statement. 
Loans to Group Companies are stated at amortised cost.
Impairment
Impairment reviews, when required as described above, are carried out on the following basis:
• By comparing any amounts carried as investments held as non-current assets with the recoverable amount.
• The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The Company generally assesses value 
in use using the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a 
change in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment 
losses, the carrying amount of the investment will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value and the carrying value that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the 
cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, over their estimated useful lives at the following rates, with any impairment being 
accounted for as additional depreciation:
Buildings – over five years on a straight line basis
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – between three and five years on a straight line basis
Motor Vehicles – over four years on a straight line basis 
(e) Financial Instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and cash held on current account or on short-term deposits at variable interest rates 
with original maturity periods of up to three months. Any interest earned is accrued monthly and classified as interest income within 
finance income. 
Other financial assets – Restricted cash
Where cash is held in escrow, funds are only classified as cash and cash equivalents when monies are transferred to and under the control 
of the Company. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value when related amounts are invoiced, less any allowances for doubtful debts or 
provision made for impairment of these receivables. 
Trade and other payables
These financial liabilities are all non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received. 
Impairment of financial assets 
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency 
or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original 
terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are 
derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
87
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies continued
(e) Financial Instruments continued
Warrants
When warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS 39 due to the variable number of shares that would be issued in each  
case they are accounted for as financial liabilities. The warrants are initialised at fair value on the date they are issued and are 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each period end. All changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are measured initially at fair value. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) method. Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. When management’s estimates of the amounts or timings 
of cashflows are revised, borrowings are re-measured using the revised cash flow estimates under the original effective interest with any 
consequent adjustment being recognised in the Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part  
of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Income Statement.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of these assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted 
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(f) Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date 
including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys  
a right to use the asset.
Operating leases
Rentals are charged to the Income Statement in the year on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
(g) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the tax authorities. Taxable 
profit/(loss) differs from the profit/(loss) before taxation as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date except 
when the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Temporary differences 
arise from differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more 
likely than not that they will be recovered.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the assets are realised  
or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised  
in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
88
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued
1 Accounting policies continued
(h) Share based payments
Where Share Options or warrants are awarded to employees (including Directors), the fair value of the options or warrants at the date of 
the grant is recorded in equity over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions, but only those related to service and performance, 
are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, 
the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. All other vesting 
conditions, including market vesting conditions, are factored in to the fair value of the options or warrants granted. As long as all other 
vesting conditions are satisfied, the amount recorded is computed irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied.  
The cumulative amount recognised is not adjusted for the failure to achieve a market vesting condition; although equity no longer 
required for options or warrants may be transferred to another equity reserve.
Where the terms and conditions of options or warrants are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, 
measured by the change from immediately before to after the modification, is also recorded in equity over the remaining vesting period.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the amount recognised in equity is the fair value of goods and 
services received.
Charges corresponding to the amounts recognised in equity are accounted as a cost against the profit and loss which will usually be 
to the Parent Company Income Statement unless the services rendered qualify for capitalisation as a non-current asset Costs may be 
capitalised within non-current assets in the event of services being rendered in connection with an acquisition or intangible exploration 
and evaluation assets or property, plant and equipment.
Where shares are issued to an Employee Benefit Trust, and the Company is the sponsoring entity, the value of such shares at issue will be 
recorded in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way, but will not affect shareholders’ funds since this same value will 
be shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds by way of a separate component of equity (Treasury shares). 
(i) Equity
Equity instruments issued by the Company are usually recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and allocated between 
called up share capital, share premium accounts or merger reserve as appropriate.
(j) Foreign Currency
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency UK pound sterling are translated at the exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange 
ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the Income Statement.
2 Non-current assets – investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries comprises:
  2014   2013
Parent Company Investment  Loans to  Investment Loans to
 in Group  Group  in Group Group
 Companies  Companies Total Companies Companies Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At beginning of year 90,472 127,440 217,912 90,154 100,000 190,154
Additions 22,857 36,954 59,811 318 27,440 27,758
Repayment – (22,322) (22,322) – – –
At end of year 113,329 142,072 255,401 90,472 127,440 217,912 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
89
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Non-current assets – investments in subsidiaries continued
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 March 2014 which are all 100% owned directly or indirectly by the Company and are all 
incorporated in England and Wales, were:
Name Principal activity
Island Gas Limited Exploration for and evaluation, production and marketing of oil and gas
Island Gas (Singleton) Limited Production and marketing of oil and gas
Island Gas Operations Limited Electricity Generation
IGas Energy (Caithness) Limited Production and marketing of oil and gas
IGas Exploration UK Limited Production and marketing of gas 
Star Energy Group Limited Service Company
Star Energy Limited Service Company
Star Energy Weald Basin Limited Processing of oil and gas 
Star Energy Oil and Gas Limited Service Company
Star Energy (East Midlands) Limited Dormant
Star Energy Oil UK Limited Dormant
3 Property, plant and equipment
   Fixtures,
   fittings and Motor
  Buildings equipment vehicles Total
  £000 £000 £000  £000
Cost    
At 1 April 2012  – 85 20 105
Additions  3 7 – 10
Disposals  – –  – – 
At 31 March 2013  3 92 20 115
    
Additions  355 44 – 399
Disposals  – – – –
At 31 March 2014  358 136 20 514
    
Amortisation and impairment    
At 1 April 2012  – 22 11 33
Charge for the year  – 20 5 25
At 31 March 2013  – 42 16 58
    
Charge for the year   56 27  4  87 
At 31 March 2014  56 69  20  145 
Net book amount    
At 31 March 2013  3 50 4 57
At 31 March 2014  302 67 – 369 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
90
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued
4 Trade and other receivables
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year:  
VAT recoverable    226 63
Other debtors    695 35
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    44,401 55,436
Prepayments    131 211
    45,453 55,745
The carrying value of each of the Company’s financial assets as stated above being other debtors and amounts due from subsidiary 
undertakings is considered to be a reasonable approximation of its fair value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of assets listed in the table above.
5 Cash and cash equivalents
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand    16,655 3,596
    16,655 3,596
The carrying value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation of their 
fair value.
The Company only deposits cash surpluses with major banks that have acceptable credit ratings of “A” or better, except that the Company 
will make deposits with banks where the UK government is the major shareholder.
Other financial assets – Restricted cash
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Restricted cash    – 102,865
    – 102,865
On 22 March 2013 the Company raised bonds to a value of US$156.2 million. The cash relating to these bonds were received into, and 
held in escrow, remaining restricted until all of the conditions precedent were satisfied in relation to the Bond issue.
On 10 April 2013, all conditions precedent were met by the Company and the funds in escrow were reclassified as cash and cash 
equivalents. Part of these funds were used to repay the bank facility agreement with Macquarie Bank Ltd, plus outstanding interest and all 
associated break fees, termination fees and costs of closing out the hedges. See note 8 for further details of the refinancing. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
91
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 Current liabilities
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Trade and other payables:  
Trade creditors    115 71
Taxation and social security    59 96
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    54,475 69,161
Accruals and other creditors    1,324 6,366
    55,973 75,694
The carrying value of each of the Company’s financial liabilities being trade creditors is considered to be a reasonable approximation of its 
fair value. All trade creditors are payable within one month and no creditor has been outstanding for longer than three months (2013: all 
within one month). 
7 Taxation
Tax losses, none of which are considered sufficiently certain of utilisation to recognise deferred tax assets, amount to:
    Year ended Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Excess management expenses    17,995 20,976
Related to share based payment transactions    739 301
Excess management expenses may only be offset against future profits, if any, of the Company generated in its capacity as a Group  
holding Company.
8 Borrowings
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39.
 31 March 2014  31 March 2013
 Within  Greater  Within Greater
 1 year  than 1 year Total 1 year than 1 year Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Bonds – secured* 4,948 87,186 92,134 5,466 94,942 100,408
Bonds – unsecured* – 16,567 16,567 – – –
Sub total 4,948 103,573 108,701 5,466 94,942 100,408
Macquarie – – – 89,710 – 89,710
Total 4,948 103,573 108,701 95,176 94,942 190,118
* Transaction costs of raising debt of £3.7 million (2013: £2.8 million) have been netted off against the liability. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
92
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued
8 Borrowings continued
Bond Issuance
Secured Bonds
On 21 March 2013, the Company and Norsk Tillitsmann (“Bond Trustee”) entered into a Bond Agreement for the Company to issue  
up to US$165.0 million secured bond issue, At 31 March 2013 US$156.2 million bonds had been sold and with the funds paid into escrow.
By 10 April 2013, the conditions precedent under the bond agreement were met, with the related cash then released from escrow  
to the Company. Part of the net proceeds of the Bonds were used to repay the outstanding loan balance with Macquarie Bank Ltd,  
plus outstanding interest and all associated break fees, termination fees and to pay costs associated with closing out hedges.  
The remainder is being used for general corporate purposes of the Company.
The Bond carries a coupon of 10% per annum (where interest is payable semi-annually in arrears) and semi-annual amortisation  
of 2.5% of initial loan amount Final maturity on the notes will be 22 March 2018.
The Bond Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for an instrument of this nature. Such 
covenants include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance of financial 
ratios and certain restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, incurrence of 
financial indebtedness and on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Bond Agreement also contains 
customary events of default, the occurrence of which allows The Bond Trustee (on behalf of the bond holders) to accelerate outstanding 
bonds and terminate the commitments.
Unsecured Bonds
On 11 December 2013, the Company and Norsk Tillitsmann (“Bond Trustee”) entered into a Bond Agreement for the Company to issue 
US$30.0 million unsecured bond issue, issued at 96% of par. The new bonds were listed on the Alternative bond market in Oslo and the 
proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes.
The Bond carries a coupon of 10% per annum (where interest is payable semi-annually in arrears) and has a borrowing limit of  
US$60.0 million. Final maturity on the notes will be 11 December 2018.
The Bond Agreement contains certain representations, warranties and covenants customary for an instrument of this nature.  
Such covenants include the provision of financial and reporting information, compliance with environmental law, maintenance  
of financial ratios and certain restrictions on mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, granting of security, disposals, issuances of loans, 
incurrence of financial indebtedness and on payments of dividends by the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Bond  
Agreement also contains customary events of default, the occurrence of which allows The Bond Trustee (on behalf of the bond  
holders) to accelerate outstanding bonds and terminate the commitments.
Macquarie financing
At 31 March 2013, the Group had outstanding borrowings with Macquarie (Macquarie facilities) but was undergoing a refinancing.  
In accordance with IAS 1 the Macquarie facilities were re-classified as current liabilities as at 31 March 2013 as the Company had intended 
to repay these facilities upon completion of the Bonds. The facilities were re-measured to £89.7 million at 31 March 2013 to take into 
account the change in the estimated future cashflows to repay the Macquarie facilities. A £7.6 million loss on re-measurement was 
recognised in finance costs in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2013. On 10 April 2013, the Macquarie facilities were 
repaid in full, being the re-measured amount, plus £0.3 million of accrued interest.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
93
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Other liabilities
     £000
At 1 April 2012     2,806
Warrants issued during year     –
Revaluation loss     5,402 
As at 31 March 2013     8,208
Warrants issued during year     –
Warrants exercised during year     (9,508)
Revaluation loss     8,104
As at 31 March 2014     6,804
During the year the Group issued 9,975,657 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 10p each upon the exercise of £9.5 million warrants 
(31 March 2013: nil shares issued).
Warrants issued can be exercised in three different ways and, although the cost to the Company would be the same under each exercise 
option, these warrants do not qualify as equity instruments under IAS 39 due to the variable number of shares that would be issued in 
each case. Accordingly they have been accounted for as financial liabilities.
All warrants vested on grant and accordingly the key assumptions made in arriving at the Black-Scholes valuations were: share price on 
date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the warrants were expected 
to remain exercisable. A risk free interest rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the warrants at the time of 
granting, and an interest rate of 1.38% and an implied volatility of 43.13% at 31 March 2014. It was also assumed that no dividends would 
be paid during the life of the warrants.
The movements in warrants during the period were as follows:
     Weighted
     average 
     exercise price 
    No (pence)
At 1 April 2012    21,286,646 55.8
Granted in year    – –
Lapsed in year    – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2013    21,286,646 55.8 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013    21,286,646 55.8 
Granted in year    – –
Lapsed in year    – –
Exercised in the year    12,286,646 55.8
Outstanding at 31 March 2014    9,000,000 55.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2014    9,000,000 55.8
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the warrants outstanding as at 31 March 2014 is 3.75 years.
10 Commitments
At the balance sheet date the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, for each of the following years. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
94
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Commitments continued
Operating lease commitments:
  
      Y ear ended Y ear ended  
      31 March 31 March  
      2014 2013
      £000 £000
– expiring within 1 year    285 267
– expiring within 2 to 5 years    1,042 1,309
– over 5 years    – 378
Total    1,327 1,954
11 Financial instruments and risk management
Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with 
carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values, are as follows:
     C a rr yi ng a m o u n t
 
Fair value
    31 March  31 March 31 March 31 March
    2014  2013 2014 2013
    £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets    
Amortised cost    
 Loans to Group Companies  142,702 127,440 142,702 127,440
Financial liabilities    
Amortised cost    
 Borrowings (floating rate)
1
  – 89,710 – 89,710
 Borrowings (fixed rate)
1
  108,701 100,408 112,326 103,150
Fair value through profit and loss    
 Interest rate swaps
2
  – 779 – 779
 Warrants
2
  6,804 8,208 6,804 8,208
1 The fair value of borrowings and other financial liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing market interest rates  
for instruments with substantially the same terms and characteristics.
2 The fair value of warrants is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Fair value hierarchy
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
• Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly  
or indirectly; and 
• Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable  
market data. 
For financial instruments there are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have they been any transfers between levels of the fair 
value hierarchy.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at the reporting dates as follows:
  Level 1  Level 2 Level 3 Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2014    
Warrants  – 6,804 – 6,804
Total  – 6,804 – 6,804
    
At 31 March 2013    
Interest rate swaps  – 779 – 779
Warrants  – 8,208 – 8,208
Total  – 8,987 – 8,987
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
95
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Fair value hierarchy continued
The fair values of the interest rate swaps at 31 March 2013 were valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs.  
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of the counterparty and forward rate curves of the underlying 
commodity.
The warrants are valued using Black-Scholes method, which incorporates the inputs as detailed in note 9.
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying values of the financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding current assets, current liabilities and derivative financial 
instruments), are considered to be materially equivalent to their fair values.
Financial risk management
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, warrants and trade and other payables.  
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s subsidiary operations and to fund acquisitions. The Company 
has trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations and restricted cash.  
The Company also enters into derivative transactions. 
The Company manages its exposure to key financial risks in accordance with its financial risk management policy. The objective  
of the policy is to support the Company’s financial targets while protecting future financial security. The Company is exposed to  
the following risks:
• Market risk including interest rate, and foreign currency risks
• Credit risk 
• Liquidity risk 
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. It is the Company’s policy that 
all transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Company. The Company does not use 
derivative financial instruments for speculative exposures.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market factors, 
such as interest rate and foreign currency. 
The sensitivity analyses below have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, and the proportion of financial instruments 
in foreign currencies are all constant and that derivatives are held to maturity. The sensitivity analysis is intended to illustrate the 
sensitivity to changes in market variables on the Company’s financial instruments and show the impact on profit or loss and shareholders’ 
equity, where applicable. 
Interest rate risk
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s loans with related parties. 
The Company currently has all of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest. 
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in interest rates on the fair value of the loans with  
related parties. The analysis is based on the assumption that LIBOR moves 50 basis points, with all other variables held constant. 
   Increase/(decrease) in profit before tax
    for the year ended and to
    equity as at 
    31 March 31 March
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
50 basis point increase in LIBOR    945 362
50 basis point decrease in LIBOR    (945) (362) IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
96
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Foreign currency risk
The Company has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure arises from purchases in currencies other than the UK pounds sterling, 
the functional currency of the Company. 
The following table summarises the impact on profit before tax for changes in the US dollar/UK pound sterling exchange rate.  
The impact on equity is the same as the impact on profit before tax.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the pound moves 10%, with all other variables held constant. 
   Increase/(decrease) in profit before tax
    for the year ended and to
    equity as at 
    31 March 31 March
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
10% strengthening of the pound against the US dollar    9,457 8,719
10% weakening of the pound against the US dollar    (9,457) (8,719)
Credit risk
With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Company, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, restricted  
cash and amounts due from subsidiary undertakings, the Company’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty,  
with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. The Company limits its counterparty credit risk on cash  
and cash equivalents and restricted cash by dealing only with financial institutions with credit ratings of at least A or equivalent other  
than if the UK government is a majority shareholder. £16.6 million (2013: £3.6 million) of cash and cash equivalents were held with  
a single institution.
Liquidity risk
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously 
monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and future capital and 
operating commitments.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March based on contractual undiscounted 
payments:
 On demand  <1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years >3 years Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2014      
Borrowings (fixed rate) – 16,181 15,708 15,178 108,271 155,338
Trade and other payables – 115 – – – 115
Warrants – 6,804 – – – 6,804
 – 23,100 15,708 15,178 108,271 162,257
At 31 March 2013      
Borrowings (floating rate) – 89,710 – – – 89,710
Borrowings (fixed rate) – 11,071 10,769 10,491 100,669 133,000
Trade and other payables – 71 – – – 71
Warrants – 8,208 – – – 8,208
Derivative financial instruments interest swaps  – 779 – – – 779
 – 109,839 10,769 10,491 100,669 231,768
Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising 
from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
97
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Capital management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it remains sufficiently funded to support its business strategy and maximise  
shareholder value. The Company’s funding needs are met through a combination of debt and equity (2013: funding requirements  
through a combination of equity and debt) and adjustments are made in light of changes in economic conditions. The Company’s  
strategy is to maintain ratios in line with covenants associated with the senior debt facility.
The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity plus net debt. The Company includes within  
net debt, interest bearing bank loans less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Capital includes share capital, share premium,  
other reserves and accumulated losses.
12 Share capital
  Ordinary Shares 
 
Deferred Shares
    Restated
   £000  £000
  No. Nominal value No. Nominal value
Issued and fully paid    
1 April 2012, Ordinary Shares of 50p each  162,204,909 81,102 – –
16 August 2012 share conversion of each issued     
Ordinary Shares of 50p each into:  (162,204,909) (81,102) – –
New Ordinary Shares of 10p each*  162,204,909 16,220 – –
New Deferred Shares of 40p each*  –  –  162,204,909 64,882
Cancellation of Deferred Shares of 40p each*  –  –  (162,204,909) (64,882)
15 January 2013 shares issued at a price of 95p each  24,330,730 2,433 – –
31 March 2013, Ordinary Shares of 10p each  186,535,639 18,653 – –
31 March 2013, Deferred Shares of 40p each (Restated)  – – – –
22 April 2013 shares issued at a price of 77p each  475,002 48 – –
22 June 2013 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  3,000,000 300 – –
23 July 2013 shares issued at a price of 83p each  70,934 7 – –
26 July 2013 shares issued at a price of 10p each  2,975,656 297 – –
15 August 2013 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  2,000,000 200 – –
22 October 2013 shares issued at a price of 101p each  87,696 9 – –
5 December 2013 shares issued at a price of 115p each   7,488,301 749 – –
22 Jan 2014 shares issued at a price of 55.8p each  2,000,001 200 – –
22 Jan 2014 shares issued at a price of 101p each  91,533 9 – –
31 March 2014, Ordinary Shares of 10p each  204,724,762 20,472 – –
31 March 2014, Deferred Shares of 40p each  – – – –
The costs of all share issues have all been charged to the share premium account and are as disclosed in the parent company statement  
of changes in equity.
*  On 16 August 2012 the Company converted each Ordinary Share of 50p each into a New Ordinary Share of 10p each and a New Deferred Share of 40p each pursuant to an 
obligation to Macquarie Bank Limited under the terms of the warrants issued during the period ended 31 March 2012. The New Ordinary Shares carry the same rights as 
attached to Ordinary Shares. Deferred shares have no voting rights and shall not be entitled to any dividends or any other right or participation in the profits of the Company. 
The Company had the right to purchase all the issued New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate consideration of one penny and exercised this right 
immediately upon conversion. On 16 August 2012, the Company repurchased the New Deferred Shares from all Shareholders for an aggregate consideration of one penny. 
These shares were subsequently cancelled by the Company. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
98
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13 Share premium and capital redemption reserve account
Share premium account
The share premium account of the Company arises from the capital that the Company raises upon issuing shares for consideration in 
excess of the nominal value of the shares net of the costs of issuing the new shares. During the year the Company issued 18,189,123 
Ordinary Shares at a price of 10p each (2013: 24,330,730 shares issued) The cost of the issue was £nil million (2013: £0.9 million). 
Together these events resulted in a net movement in the Share premium reserve of £11.6 million (2013: £19.7 million).
Capital redemption reserve
During the period ended 31 March 2014 the Company repurchased 100% of its outstanding deferred shares which had been issued with 
a nominal value of 40p each. These deferred shares were subsequently cancelled by the Company. This resulted in a reduction in share 
capital and a corresponding recognition of a Capital Redemption Reserve of £64.9 million. 
14 Merger reserve
Merger reserve – The merger reserve arose as a result of a reverse acquisition on 31 December 2007 whereby IGL became a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company but with IGL’s shareholders acquiring 94% of the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company. The reserve 
represents the difference in the fair value and the nominal value of the shares issued. The reserve is not distributable.
15 Other reserves
Other reserves can be analysed as follows:
  Share Plan/
  Warrant/ Treasury Capital
  LTIP Reserves  Shares Contributions Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance 1 April 2012  112 (1,299) 47 (1,140) 
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2  343 – – 343
Balance 31 March 2013  455 (1,299) 47 (797)
Employee share plans – cost under IFRS 2  577 – – 577
Employee share plans – shares issued under the SIP  – (447) – (447)
Balance 31 March 2014  1,032 (1,746) 47 (667)
Employee share plans – Equity settled
Details of the Share Options under employee share plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
 2011 LTIP  2010 LTIP 
 
Share Option Plan
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average  average
 Number of  exercise price Number of exercise price Number of exercise price
 Options (pence) Options (pence) Options (pence)
Outstanding at 1 April 2012 2,107,485 – 50,000 – 411,274 70 
Granted during the year 1,071,542 – – – – –
Forfeited during the year – – (50,000) – (237,773) (70)
Lapsed during the year – – – – (173,501) (70)
Exercised during the year – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2013 3,179,027 – – – – – 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 – – – – – –
Granted during the year 466,203 – – – – –
Forfeited during the year (48,730) – – – – –
Lapsed during the year – – – – – –
Exercised during the year – – – – – –
Outstanding at 31 March 2014 3,596,500 – – – – –
Exercisable at 31 March 2014 – – – – – –
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
99
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15 Other reserves continued
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”)
In November 2011 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP , 
participants can each be granted nil cost options over up to 300% of remuneration for the Initial Award and up to 150% of remuneration 
for the Annual Award (subject to an overall plan limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has 
a three year performance period and awards vest subject to share price performance exceeding the Company’s weighted average cost of 
capital of 10%. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, a proportion of the options that vest will take into 
account items such as the time the Option has been held by the participant and the performance achieved in the period from the grant 
date. Other than on a change of control, 100% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting. 
There were no LTIPs exercised during the year. The LTIPs outstanding at 31 March 2014 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and maximum term remaining of 7.8 years.
The total charge for the year was £297 thousand (2013: £218 thousand). Of this amount, £97 thousand (2013: £161 thousand) was 
capitalised and £200 thousand (2013: £57 thousand) was charged to the Income Statement in relation to the fair value of the awards 
granted under the Share Option scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model were as follows:
     2011 LTIP 
      Granted  Granted 
    Nov 11 Sep 13
Weighted average share price    50.5p 102.0p
Weighted average exercise price    Nil Nil
Expected volatility    35% 43%
Expected life    6.5 years 6.5 years
Risk-free rate    0.70% 0.85%
Expected dividends    0% 0%
Weighted average fair value of awards granted    23.12p 50.90p
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 (“LTIP”)
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan scheme for certain key employees of the Group. Under the LTIP , 
participants can each be granted nil cost options over up to 1.5% of the issued share capital of the Company (subject to an overall plan 
limit of 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for all participants). The LTIP has a three year performance period and awards 
vest subject to the achievement of stretching share price targets. On a change of control prior to the third anniversary of the grant date, 
a revised share price target reflecting the reduction in the performance period shall instead be used to determine the extent to which 
LTIP options vest. Other than on a change of control, 50% of vested awards can be exercised and sold on vesting, with the remaining 50% 
becoming exercisable on the first anniversary of vesting. There were no LTIPs in this scheme exercised during the year. There were no LTIPs 
outstanding at 31 March 2014.
The total charge for the year was £nil thousand (2013: £2 thousand). Of this amount, £nil thousand (2013: £2 thousand) was charged  
to the subsidiary and £nil thousand (2013: £nil) was charged to the Income Statement in relation to the fair value of the awards granted 
under the LTIP scheme measured at grant date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The key assumptions made in arriving at the Monte Carlo valuations were: share price on date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent 
consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the LTIPs were expected to remain exercisable. A risk free interest rate 
of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the LTIPs at the time of granting. It was also assumed that no dividends 
would be paid during the life of the LTIPs. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
100
PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15 Other reserves continued
Share Option Plan
In October 2010 the Company adopted a Share Option Plan for certain key employees of the Group. Both executives and employees may 
participate in the Share Option Plan. Typically each individual participant could be granted options under the Share Option Plan with a 
market value at grant of up to 100% of his base salary, although this limit can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Share options 
vest in three equal tranches over a three year period from the date of grant and vested options are exercisable subject to the attainment 
of a Company share price target. 
2010 grants under the Share Option Plan are subject to an exercise price of 70p per share.
There were no Options exercised during the year. There were no Options outstanding at 31 March 2014.
The total charge for the year was £nil thousand (2013: £nil). Awards granted under the Share Option Scheme are measured at grant  
date using a Monte Carlo Simulation Model. 
The key assumptions made in arriving at the Monte Carlo valuations were: share price on date of valuation, adjusted for subsequent 
consolidations where appropriate and the length of time for which the Options were expected to remain exercisable. A risk free interest 
rate of 1.09% and an implied volatility of 35% were used in valuing the Options at the time of granting. It was also assumed that no 
dividends would be paid during the life of the Options. 
Other share based payments
During the year, certain employees agreed to settle bonuses earned in the year ended 31 March 2014 in Share Options. The number 
of Share Options issued was 190,710 (31 March 2013: 216,850) with a fair value of £177 thousand (31 March 2013: £149 thousand), 
measured indirectly with reference to the value of the option. This amount was charged to the subsidiary. Due to the fact that the options 
vested immediately with £nil strike price and no conditions, the fair value of the option equals the market price of the share at the grant 
date. There were no options exercised during the year. The options outstanding at 31 March 2014 had both a weighted average remaining 
contractual life and a maximum term of 8.6 years (31 March 2013: 8.75 years). 
In 2013, the Company adopted an Inland Revenue approved Share Investment Plan (“SIP”) for all employees of the Group. The scheme 
is a tax efficient incentive plan pursuant to which all employees are eligible to acquire up to £125 (or 10% of salary, if less) worth of 
the Company’s Ordinary Shares per month or £1,500 per annum. Under the SIP employees are invited to make contributions to buy 
partnership shares. If an employee agrees to buy partnership shares the Company currently matches the number of partnership shares 
bought with an award of shares (matching shares), on a one-for-one or two-for-one basis.
Treasury shares 
The Treasury shares reserve of the Company has arisen in connection with: 
The shares issued to the IGas Employee Benefit Trust, of which the Company is the sponsoring entity. The value of such shares is recorded 
in share capital and share premium account in the ordinary way and is also shown as a deduction from equity in this separate other 
reserve account; and so there is no net effect on shareholders’ funds. During the year ended to 31 March 2014 there were no shares were 
issued to the Employee Benefit Trust (2013: nil). 
Capital contribution 
The capital contribution of £47 thousand was received in cash following the acquisition of IGas Exploration UK Limited.
Parent Company Financial Statements – Notes
continued IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
101
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Related party transactions
(a) With Group Companies
A summary of the transactions in the year is as follows:
    Year ended  Year ended
    31 March  31 March
    2014 2013
     £000 £000
Amounts due from/(to) subsidiaries:  
Balance at beginning of year    113,714 94,525
Services performed by subsidiary    5,209 2,286
Net cash advances    18,781 11,666
Group loan interest    8,667 5,237
Group loan repayment    (22,322) –
Acquisitions    7,949  –
Balance at end of year     131,998 113,714
Payment terms are as mutually agreed between the Group’s Companies.
(b) With Directors
Key management as defined by IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, 
controlling and directing the activities of the Company. In the opinion of the Board, the Company’s key management are the Directors  
of the Company. Information regarding their compensation is given in notes 5 and 27 to the consolidated accounts.
F Gugen currently holds US$2.80 million bonds issued by the Group. These bonds earn interest at 10% per annum. In the year ended  
31 March 2014, interest paid was US$0.4 million (2013: US$nil). Accrued interest at 31 March 2014 amounted to US$7.8 thousand  
(31 March 2013: US$13.9 thousand).
C McDowell currently holds US$0.29 million bonds issued in the Group. These bonds earn interest at 10% per annum. In the year ended  
31 March 2014, the interest paid was US$0.03 million (2013:US$nil). Accrued interest at 31 March 2014 amounted to US$0.8 thousand  
(31 March 2013: US$nil).
17 Subsequent events
Acquisitions 
On 9 May 2014, the Company and Dart Energy limited (‘’Dart’’) announced that they have reached an agreement on the terms of  
a recommended acquisition by the Company of Dart, which values the total share capital of Dart at approximately A$211.5 million on  
a fully diluted basis (being equivalent to £117.1 million). The acquisition will be via an Australian Scheme of Arrangement on a share 
exchange basis.
The combination will create a market leading onshore UK oil and gas company with the largest area in the UK under licence of over  
1 million net acres including major UK shale basins.
It is anticipated that the transaction will be completed in September 2014.
Issued Shares
On 8 April 2014, Macquarie exercised warrants over 1,500,000 ordinary 10p shares. The warrants were exercised at 55.8p per share.
On 22 April 2014, the Company issued 91,239 Ordinary 10p shares in relation to the Groups SIP scheme. 
18 Restatement
As previously disclosed, during the year ended 31 March 2013, the Company repurchased 100% of its outstanding deferred shares.  
The deferred shares were not listed and therefore did not qualify as shares held in treasury. These deferred shares were subsequently 
cancelled by the Company. As a result the prior year comparative information has been restated to reflect the cancellation of these 
deferred shares. This has resulted in a reduction in share capital of £64.9 million and a corresponding recognition of a Capital Redemption 
Reserve of £64.9 million. There is no net effect on Shareholders’ funds.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
102
Oil and Gas Reserves
As at 31 March 2014
The Group’s estimates of proved plus probable reserves are taken from the Group’s Competent Person’s evaluation reports for the Group’s 
oil fields as of 31 December 2013 together with adjustments for production data thereafter. The report was provided by Senergy. Proved 
reserves are estimated reserves that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future 
years under existing economic and operating conditions, while probable reserves are estimated reserves determined to be more likely 
than not to be recoverable in future years under existing economic and operating conditions.
All of the Group’s oil and gas assets are located in the United Kingdom.
Group proved plus probable reserves
     Total
   Oil mmbbls Gas Bcf mmboe
At 1 April 2013   14.97 7 .95 16.36
Acquired during the year   0.30 – 0.30
Revision of previous estimates   (2.06) (2.02) (2.42)
Production   (0.98) (0.02) (0.99)
Total change during the year   (2.74) (2.04) (3.11)
At 31 March 2014   12.23 5.91 13.25
The Group’s estimates of proved plus probable reserves are made in accordance with the 2007 Petroleum Resources Management System 
prepared by the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and reviewed and jointly sponsored by the 
World Petroleum Council (“WPC”), the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (“AAPG”) and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation 
Engineers (“SPEE”). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
103
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Glossary
£ The lawful currency of the United Kingdom
1P  Low estimate of commercially recoverable reserves
2P Best estimate of commercially recoverable reserves
3P High estimate of commercially recoverable reserves
1C  Low estimate or low case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
2C  Best estimate or mid case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
3C  High estimate or high case of Contingent Recoverable Resource quantity
AIM  AIM market of the London Stock Exchange
Bcf  Billions of standard cubic feet
boepd  Barrels of oil equivalent per day
bopd  Barrels of oil per day
CBM  Coal bed methane
Recoverable  As defined in the Oil and Gas Reserves table above
reserves  
Contingent  Contingent Recoverable Resource estimates are prepared in accordance with the Petroleum Resources Management  
Recoverable System (PRMS), an industry recognised standard. A Contingent Recoverable Resource is defined as discovered potentially   
Resources recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons where there is no current certainty that it will be commercially viable to produce  
 any portion of the contingent resources evaluated. Contingent Recoverable Resources are further divided into three status   
 groups: marginal, sub-marginal, and undetermined. IGas’ Contingent Recoverable Resources all fall into the undetermined
 group. Undetermined is the status group where it is considered premature to clearly define the ultimate chance  
 of commerciality.
 All amounts shown in this annual report have been compiled by statistical aggregation
DECC  Department of Energy and Climate Change
GIIP  Gas initially in place
IGL  The Company’s subsidiary holding all its licences
MMboe  Millions of barrels of oil equivalent
MMscfd  Millions of standard cubic feet per day
PEDL  United Kingdom petroleum exploration and development licence
PL  Production licence
Scf  Standard cubic feet
Tcf  Trillions of standard cubic feet of gas
UK  United Kingdom IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
104
General Information
Directors
F Gugen – Non-Executive Chairman
A Austin – Chief Executive Officer
J Blaymires – Chief Operating Officer
S Bowler – Chief Financial Officer
J Bryant – Non-Executive
R Pinchbeck – Non-Executive
C McDowell – Non-Executive
Company Secretary
MoFo Secretaries Limited
Citypoint
One Ropemaker Street
London EC2Y 9AW
Nominated Adviser and Broker
NOMAD and Joint Broker
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
Joint Broker
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
Banker
Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Registered Office
7 Down Street
London W1J 7AJ
Copies of Reports and Accounts
Further copies of this Annual report and accounts can 
be obtained from the Registered Office of IGas Energy plc 
(IGas Energy). IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
Design & Production
www.carrkamasa.co.uk IGas Energy plc 
Registered Office
7 Down Street
London
W1J 7AJ
+44 (0)20 7993 9899
www.igasplc.com
