 IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE 2011 Results in brief 1
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
At-a-glance 2
Our strategy 4
 Fluid technologies 6
 Niche leadership 8
 Growth drivers 10
Our performance 14 
 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
Chairman’s statement 16
Chief executive’s review 18
Our ﬁve platform businesses 20
Financial review 22
P16 A strong performance with good organic growth and 
further margin improvement  
P2 At-a-glance: Where we operate - number of locations by business
 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
The IMI Way and our business strategy 28
Responsible business priorities 30
 
BOARD REPORTS
Principal risks and uncertainties 34
Board of directors 36
Directors’ report 38
Chairman’s governance introduction 42
The Board’s corporate  
  governance report 43
Remuneration report 48
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  68
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report (Group) 69
Consolidated income statement  70
Consolidated statement of 71 
  comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet 72
Consolidated statement of 73 
  changes in equity 
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 74
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 75
Independent auditor’s report (Company) 123
Company balance sheet 124
Company notes to the ﬁnancial statements  125
Subsidiary undertakings 130
Five year summary  132
Shareholder information 134
General information 135
Index  136
P33 Responsible business: Helping people with learning disabilities 
become active members of the labour market
CONTENTS
FAST TRACK TO NEWS HIGHLIGHTS IMI IS A GLOBAL ENGINEERING GROUP FOCUSED ON  
THE PRECISE CONTROL AND MOVEMENT OF FLUIDS IN 
CRITICAL APPLICATIONS.  IMI COMPRISES FIVE PLATFORM 
BUSINESSES WITH GROWING LEADERSHIP POSITIONS  
IN FOCUSED NICHE MARKETS.  IN DECEMBER 2010, IMI 
GAINED ENTRY INTO THE FTSE100 FOR THE FIRST TIME  
IN ITS HISTORY.  
2011 RESULTS IN BRIEF
Segmental operating proﬁt
1
£374.1m +17%
2010 £319.7m
Adjusted basic earnings per share
3
81.5p +23%
2010 66.3p
Proﬁt before tax
£301.4m -2%
2010 £306.1m
Total dividend for year
30.0p +15%
2010 26.0p
Basic earnings per share
63.2p -10%
2010 70.4p
Revenue
£2,131m +12%
2010 £1,911m
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
2
£363.4m +19%
2010 £304.4m
Revenue, proﬁt and earnings per share measures quoted 
above are based on continuing activities.
1 
before exceptional items (restructuring, acquired intangible 
amortisation, the reversal of economic hedge contract gains 
and in 2010 the UK employee beneﬁt curtailment gain) 
totalling £59.9m (2010: £10.6m)
2  
before exceptional items (restructuring, acquired intangible 
amortisation, ﬁnancial instruments and in 2010 the UK 
employee beneﬁt curtailment gain) totalling £62.0m (2010: 
£1.7m credit) and including economic hedge contract gains 
and losses totalling £4.1m (2010: £2.7m)
3  
before the after tax cost of exceptional items totalling 
£57.9m (2010: proﬁt of £0.5m)
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 1 SEVERE SERVICE
IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966.   
At 31 December 2011 it had a market value of £2.4bn and shareholders’ funds of £565m.
15,700 employees* provide innovative knowledge-based engineering solutions for market-leading customers around the world. 
The Company’s headquarters is at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, England.  The trading activities of the IMI Group are 
conducted through subsidiary companies.
PLATFORM 
BUSINESSES
FLUID POWER
INDOOR CLIMATE
BEVERAGE DISPENSE
MERCHANDISING
Controlling critical in-plant 
processes by providing 
superior custom-engineered 
severe service valve, 
actuation and control 
solutions.        
Engineering advantage  
in motion and ﬂuid  
control applications.
Perfecting indoor climate 
through the provision of 
critical energy-efﬁcient valve 
solutions and related services 
for water-based heating and 
cooling systems.
Supplying innovative 
beverage cooling and 
dispense solutions to brand 
owners and retailers around 
the world. Providing complete 
beverage and food service 
parts management solutions.
Providing permanent point of 
sale solutions and technologies 
that enhance retailer and brand 
owner proﬁtability by driving 
impulse purchase. 
Segmental 
revenue
Segmental 
operating proﬁt
Revenue by 
geographical destination
27%  £572m 24%  £88.9m
36%  £767m 40%  £150.5m
14%  £310m 18%  £68.2m
15%  £317m 11%  £41.1m
8% £169m 7% £25.4m
RoW 16% 
Emerging 
Markets 
34%
North 
America 
18%
UK 4% 
Western  
Europe 
28%
RoW 4% 
Emerging 
Markets 
17%
North 
America 
23%
UK 8% 
Western  
Europe 
48%
RoW 1% 
Emerging 
Markets 
18%
North 
America 
5%
UK 2% 
Western  
Europe 
74%
RoW 3% 
Emerging 
Markets 
17%
North 
America 
58%
UK 8% 
Western  
Europe 
14%
RoW 1% 
Emerging 
Markets 
3%
North 
America 
78%
UK 11% 
Western  
Europe 
7%
40% £1505
£ £
15% £317 %£
* As at 31 December 2011, including temporary agency and contractor staff and approximately 200 head ofﬁce employees.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business overview 2
AT-A-GLANCE Key brands 
CCI, BTG, IMI Nuclear, Orton, Truﬂo Rona, STI, Z&J, THJ
Main markets  
Fossil and nuclear power generation; oil & gas production;  
combined heat & power (CHP); liquiﬁed natural gas (LNG);  
iron & steel; petrochemical and gas processing.
Major operational locations  
USA, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, Czech Republic, South Korea,  
UK, Japan, China, Germany and Belgium.
Employees 3,950
Key brands 
Norgren, FAS, Kloehn, Herion, Buschjost, KIP
Main markets  
Industrial pneumatic applications; commercial vehicles;  
food and beverage; life sciences; rail; energy.
Major operational locations  
UK, USA, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico, Czech Republic  
and China.
Employees 6,300
Key brands 
TA Hydronics, Heimeier, Pneumatex, FDI
Main markets  
Heating and cooling systems for commercial buildings  
and temperature control for residential buildings.
Major operational locations  
Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and USA.
Employees 2,000
Key brands 
Cornelius, 3Wire
Main markets  
Soft drinks, health and wellness drinks and alcoholic beverage 
cooling, dispense and point of sale equipment for bars, 
restaurants and retail outlets.
Major operational locations  
USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China.
Employees 2,200
Key brands 
Artform, Cannon Equipment, DCI Marketing,  
Display Technologies
Main markets  
Global brand owners and retail sales outlets.
Major operational locations  
USA and UK.
Employees 1,050
Factﬁle
Group revenue 
£2,131m
Segmental operating proﬁt 
£374.1m
Group revenue by 
geographical destination
Segmental 
revenue 
£m
Segmental 
operating proﬁt 
£m
Operating 
margin 
%
Fluid  
Controls 
77% 
Fluid  
Controls 
82% 
Retail 
Dispense 
23% 
Retail 
Dispense 
18% 
Emerging 
Markets 
20%
UK 6% 
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
292
296
310
60.7
70.3
68.2
20.8
23.8
22.0
520
685
767
32.8
113.7
150.5
6.3
16.6
19.6
512
452
572
101.4
78.4
88.9
19.8
17.3
15.5
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
d
s
%
l
e 
%
North 
America 
29%
RoW 
7%
297
315
317
21.1
32.0
41.1
7.1
10.2
13.0
164
169 169
18.2
25.3 25.4
11.1
15.0 15.0
Western 
Europe 
38% 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 3 OUR MISSION  
Postioning ourselves for the future
IMI’s goal is to become one of the world’s leading engineering companies in the global niche markets we serve and to be 
recognised for our innovation, applications expertise and global service.
We are seeking to concentrate a higher proportion of our business activities in our ‘sweetspot’ of operation – the area 
where we create the greatest value for our customers via product differentiation, where we can expect to enjoy clear 
market leadership, higher margins and greater exposure to long-term macro trends driving global growth.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
STRATEGIC CONVERGENCE  
FLUID TECHNOLOGIES
Precision ﬂow control in 
critical applications:
  Valves
  Actuators
   Controllers and 
positioners
NICHE LEADERSHIP
  Market leadership in 
global niches
  Blue chip clients 
supported by world class 
Key Account Management
  Customised solutions 
delivered through 
Engineering Advantage
  Extensive aftermarket
GROWTH DRIVERS
  Climate change
  Resource scarcity
  Urbanisation
  Ageing population
“Today just over half of IMI’s operations 
are positioned within the ‘sweetspot’ 
which is characterised by higher growth, 
higher margins and greater resilience.  
Over time we would expect to increase 
signiﬁcantly this proportion through 
disciplined choices around customer 
selection, new product development 
and acquisitions.”
Martin Lamb, Chief Executive,  
1 March 2012
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business overview 4
OUR STRATEGY Customer advantage  
IMI delivers customer advantage where we can deploy our highly differentiated technologies in targeted market niches 
where our core competencies in Key Account Management and Engineering Advantage can be leveraged to maximum 
effect.  We are highly focused on customers whose own growth agenda is being driven by key global trends such as 
climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing population.
FLUID TECHNOLOGIES
Our highly engineered products provide precise and 
reliable control of ﬂuids and gases, often in critical 
applications:
 Control circuit – valves to impede or isolate ﬂow, 
actuators to control the stroke of the valves, and 
positioners / controllers for feedback and control
 Type of ﬂuid – steam, gas, oxygen, air, reagents  
and water
 Operating parameters:
- Operating pressures 0bar to 660bar
- Operating temperatures -170°C to +1,600°C
- Oriﬁce sizes 0.5mm to 3.0m
We seek leadership positions in clearly deﬁned global 
niches where our competencies in Key Account 
Management and Engineering Advantage can be 
leveraged to maximum effect.
IMI’s key market niches share certain characteristics:

Niche global markets of no more than US$3-4 billion
 Market leading positions, typically with market 
share of over 25%
 Blue-chip customers with a clear appetite for 
innovative, differentiated and customised solutions
 Signiﬁcant aftermarket
Our people are trained to establish close working 
relationships with our customers, develop genuine 
insight as to the key competitive and business issues 
facing the customer, and to translate that insight into 
innovative and highly bespoke products and solutions 
which deliver signiﬁcant and measurable value. 
In short, we deploy the very best practices of  
Key Account Management with technical know-how to 
deliver real Engineering Advantage for our customers.
The global trends shaping our future and providing higher 
than average growth opportunities for IMI include:
 Climate change – solutions for cleaner energy (e.g. 
LNG and nuclear), improved energy efﬁciency and 
better environmental control
 Resource scarcity – process improvement  
and automation
 Urbanisation – building design and mass transit 
infrastructure in the emerging economies 
 Ageing population – products to support healthier 
lifestyles and improved quality and longevity of life
GROWTH DRIVERS
NICHE LEADERSHIP
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 5 OUR KNOW-HOW
We deliver Engineering Advantage to our customers through the unique combination of engineering 
know-how and ﬂuid controls technology.  Throughout IMI, we invest in people and techniques to 
improve market understanding and customer insight.  We listen and identify the issues facing our 
customers and then, most importantly, we apply our acquired know-how and our engineering 
capabilities to provide bespoke solutions delivering clear and measurable beneﬁts.
STRATEGIC 
CONVERGENCE
STEAM, GAS, WATER WATER STEAM, GAS, WATER
Zimmermann & Jansen have designed a new energy-
saving Hot Blast Valve, which requires substantially less 
cooling water.  ‘Hot blast’ is compressed air at very 
high temperatures. The valve is used as the shut-off 
valve between a stove and a blast furnace, with the 
ﬂow of the ‘hot blast’ being shut-off by the valve disc.  
The Hot Blast Valve, which can weigh up to 41,000 kgs,  
is manufactured with a refractory lining and special 
insulation of the body passage, all internal walls and the 
disc.  Only the metallic sealing seats of the body and disc, 
which are exposed to the hot blast, are water cooled.
WATER
TA Hydronics have produced the ﬁrst in-line differential 
pressure controller with integrated pilot operation and 
adjustable set-point.  It is used for heating and cooling 
systems and is particularly effective in situations 
experiencing high temperatures and/or pressure drops.
Larger buildings, such as ofﬁces or hospitals, have 
complicated heating and cooling systems and require 
more accurate techniques.  To obtain the correct 
design ﬂows, TA Hydronics design systems to include 
balancing valves and differential pressure controllers.  
Balancing valves allow the measurement of differential 
pressures which can be used to calculate a ﬂow. 
Differential pressure controllers control the pressures 
in the installation, simplify balancing procedures and 
enable the installation to be more precisely controlled. enable the installation to be more precisely controlled.
From 3m oriﬁce size and 660bar pressure...
Platform business: Severe Service
Product name: Hot Blast Valve DN 2200 / 2900 L 800
Oriﬁce range: 150mm to 3,000mm
Temperature max: 1,600°C
Pressure max: 87PSI 
Platform business: Indoor Climate
Product name: Differential pressure controller DA516 DN150
Water oriﬁce: 150mm
Temperature range: -10°C to 150°C
Differential pressure max: 232PSI
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business overview 6
FLUID TECHNOLOGIES The key to our success is in retaining people and knowledge, and creating a network of experts who can be called upon 
to engineer solutions speciﬁc to our customers’ requirements.
Our ﬁve platform businesses all have unique ways of engineering advantage; Severe Service have their Valve Doctors, 
Fluid Power and Indoor Climate have the Norgren University and Hydronic College respectively, whilst Beverage Dispense 
rely on their industry-recognised experts and Merchandising lead the way with their Retail Science methodology.
SYRUP, WATER, CO 2
AIR, OXYGEN, EXHAUST GAS, REAGENT SYRUP, WATER, CO 2
The Cornelius proportional ﬂow control valve is 
designed to precisely control the ratio of syrup to  
water for carbonated or still beverages.
The valve technology performs the following key 
control functions:
 Isolates ﬂuids and actuates ﬂow as required in 
the application
 Once actuated, the valve controls the ﬂow of the 
ﬂuid in an open loop by modulating ﬂow area in 
proportion to the pressure drop across the valve.  
This modulation is achieved by a precision ceramic 
piston that slides linearly in a precision ceramic 
sleeve in response to input pressure changes. 
In doing this, the valve maintains ﬂow accuracy of  
+/- 2.5% from set points and helps control key 
consumer-centric parameters such as taste and  
visual appearance.
AIR, OXYGEN, EXHAUST GAS, REAGENT
The FAS Chipsol series valves are miniature solenoid 
valves for applications that require low energy 
consumption, a compact solution and superior 
performance.  
The Chipsol is a ﬂexible product and is ideal for 
deployment in applications that need to control  
medical micro or pneumatic devices, ranging from 
respirators and diving equipment, to fragrance 
dispensers, to pick and place distribution machinery. 
They are incredibly complex due to their small size, 
small stroke and tolerances of less than 0.01mm on 
elastomer parts. They are produced using a metal 
injection moulding process, and have a patented,  
long-life, cartridge design.
The Chipsol series could be used as either a valve to 
control the media directly, such as the dispense of 
medical gases or gas dosing manifolds, or as an 
actuator to the pilot distributor or pressure regulator. 
to 0.5mm oriﬁce size and 0bar pressure.
Platform business: Beverage Dispense
Product name: Grappa UFB/1
Water oriﬁce: 3mm to 5mm  Syrup oriﬁce: 1mm to 2.5mm
Temperature range: 1°C to 41°C
Pressure range: 20PSI to 120PSI
Platform business: Fluid Power
Product name: FAS Chipsol
Oriﬁce range: 0.5mm to 1.0mm
Temperature range: 1°C to 50°C
Pressure range: 1PSI to 115PSI
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 7  
World class Key Account Management (KAM) 
and project management are important 
disciplines for the effective delivery of bespoke 
solutions to our customers.  We focus on the 
key elements of the IMI KAM model, including 
customer / segment selection and end market 
drivers, Engineering Advantage through 
ideation and innovation, capturing value 
through pricing and negotiation, and delivering 
sustainable results by ﬁrst class execution.
Lucy McQuillan is the Key Account Director for  
the IMI Group and in this role drives proﬁtable 
growth through best practice approaches to KAM.  
Previously, as the Global Vice President of Yum! 
Brands Account with Cornelius, Lucy helped to 
broaden the offer into new categories of more 
proﬁtable beverages directly as a result of the 
customer’s need to expand their menu offering.  
Applying the insights of proﬁtable category 
development with the customer’s application,  
such as labour utilisation and speed of service,  
has consistently delivered unique differentiated 
products for both the customer and IMI.
OUR PEOPLE
We concentrate on global niche markets where we already hold, or can achieve, a market leadership 
position and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves from our competitors with end-user insight 
and application of innovative technology.  The disciplines of Key Account Management and 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
MARKET LEADERSHIP IN GLOBAL NICHES
STRATEGIC 
CONVERGENCE
KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT
Gilbert Gremont, Knowledge and Training Manager,  
France, TA Hydronics
Lucy McQuillan, Key Account Director, IMI
We are focused on working with industry or 
sector leading customers in global niche markets 
who have good exposure to the key global trends 
which are driving growth.  We currently operate  
in around 40 niche markets globally across our 
businesses, where in many cases we beneﬁt from 
being market leaders through our innovative 
bespoke customer solutions.
TA Hydronics have demonstrated their market 
leadership in such niche markets by setting up  
the Hydronic College.  Gilbert Gremont, who is 
responsible for knowledge and training in France, 
has developed a range of training courses covering 
all aspects of hydronics.  The internal training 
ensures continuous improvement and that we  
remain leaders within the industry. 
The external programme allows us to educate 
(amongst others) our customers and stakeholders; 
installers, consultants, contractors, commissioners 
and developers.  We help them to solve their speciﬁc 
problems in respect of complex indoor comfort 
requirements, whilst addressing global issues such 
as energy efﬁciency.  Our seminar programme covers 
a wide range of topics including our core hydronic 
competencies; pressurisation and water quality, 
balancing and control, and 
thermostatic control.  Over the 
last three years more than 
160,000 people have 
participated globally.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
8
NICHE LEADERSHIP Engineering Advantage are central to achieving this aim.  IMI is increasing its investment in these two key areas  
to underpin the Group’s aspirations of accelerating top line growth and delivering further margin improvement.   
We also target markets where we can provide aftermarket support in the form of service and spares to our  
customers’ installed product base.
We have developed an agile service business 
that provides maximum ﬂexibility across the 
niche markets we serve.  Our global footprint  
is expanding in order to support customer 
demands in the emerging markets.
Across the Group, many of our businesses  
are unique in the industry for our direct sales 
approach and dedicated support for customers 
worldwide.  We will continue to ﬁnd innovative 
ways to provide even greater aftermarket 
support for our customers.
The North American aftermarket group is 
responsible for supporting approximately 10,000 
CCI valves installed at roughly 1,000 sites.   
The aftermarket group consists of sales teams, 
engineering support, repair capabilities, a dedicated 
cross-functional operations team and a ﬁeld-service 
support team dedicated to proactively delivering 
custom aftermarket solutions to our customers.  
Recently, a US electricity company turned to CCI 
for some spare valve parts for a new generation 
unit.  Working together, the aftermarket team 
delivered over 60 parts in just three weeks (normally 
12) so that the plant could be commissioned on the 
designated start-up date.
AFTERMARKET
Nengi Krukrubo, Senior Manager, Operations, CCI 
Steve Martens, Director of North America Aftermarket, CCI
IMI converts industry knowledge and market 
insight into design-engineered solutions, which 
creates competitive advantage for our customers.  
We call this Engineering Advantage.
We deliver Engineering Advantage to our 
customers through the unique combination  
of engineering know-how and ﬂuid controls 
technology.  We focus on solving our customers’ 
problems, enabling them to operate faster, more 
efﬁciently and more cost effectively.
Mark Sealy, Global Engineering Director for 
Norgren’s Commercial Vehicle (CV) Sector, is 
responsible for deﬁning product strategy and 
co-ordinating technology development across the 
seven Norgren sites that comprise our international 
CV business. Increasingly, his team is stepping up 
from delivering components, to developing bespoke 
modules and complete systems to OEMs all over 
the world, helping them to meet emissions 
legislation and improve vehicle performance.
Our Engineering Advantage comes from responding 
quickly to new opportunities through creative 
solutions, often leveraging proven elements from 
different business units.  We specialise in precise 
ﬂuid and motion control products which are ﬁt for 
purpose, in the hostile environments on trucks. 
ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE
Mark Sealy, Director, Commercial Vehicle Sector, Norgren
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Viper FCB machine
Requirement
The Kroger Co. is one of the largest US grocery retailers. 
Sustainability is an integral part of their business and is 
embedded in the company’s core values and mission.
A key new concept was introduced in 2010 to increase 
revenue, whereby an area at the front of a select number 
of stores was designated for a convenience-store (C-store) 
concept, including a retail food service area and fountain 
and frozen beverage dispense sections.
Consequently, The Kroger Co. needed a sustainable frozen 
dispenser solution with high performance and reliability, 
and which was in line with their legacy in sustainability 
leadership, to include in their new C-store outlets.
Solution
The Kroger Co. chose Cornelius’ high quality, reliable, Viper 
Frozen Carbonated Beverage (FCB) machine, which has  
a patented energy saving design resulting in an average 
saving of 25% compared with traditional FCB equipment. 
Cornelius applied its expertise to create Viper’s efﬁcient 
refrigeration design, compressor technology and novel 
adaptive Intelligent Defrost™ feature which allows 
maximum uptime, and reduces wear on components.  
Additionally, Cornelius’ experience in valve technology 
ensures Viper properly mixes the syrup and water to 
directly reduce the number of refrigeration system cycles 
required to keep the product frozen.
Viper’s LED lighting provides seven times the life expectancy 
of ﬂuorescent bulbs which reduces its carbon footprint, and 
also eliminates waste and disposal fees. The insulating  
foam is environmentally friendly with zero Global Warming 
Potential (GWP) and zero Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP).  
All of Viper’s electronics are compliant with the RoHS 
directive (Reduction of Hazardous Substances). 
IMI Company:  Cornelius 
Customer: The Kroger Co. 
Location:  USA
CORNELIUS HELPS CUSTOMER WITH SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT 
CLIMATE CHANGE CASE STUDY: BEVERAGE DISPENSE
We have identiﬁed a set of mega trends that will impact on our business and markets over the coming years: climate 
change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population.  Our products and services are ideally positioned to 
respond to these key environmental and demographic trends that are shaping the future.
Integrating these trends, or growth drivers, into our business strategy has enabled us to identify a set of new product 
opportunities; meeting the energy challenge will require alternative solutions that rely on highly engineered bespoke 
OUR INSIGHTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
10
GROWTH DRIVERS CCI’s DRAG
®
 technology 
solution
Requirement
Statoil owns two oil and gas platforms in the Snorre ﬁeld 
in the Norwegian North Sea. The Snorre B inlet gas 
separator pressure control system is used intermittently 
each month for periods ranging from as little as ﬁve 
minutes to as long as ﬁve hours. The control valve within 
the system regulates the transfer of ﬂuid to a buffer tank.  
If the pressure within the tank rises above a set point, the 
system evacuates the gas.
When the gas separator pressure control system onboard 
Snorre B began experiencing excessive noise and higher 
than expected use, Statoil turned to CCI to evaluate the 
process and equipment. Referred to as the “organ” by 
platform employees, the existing valve’s inadequate ﬂow 
control created very high noise levels in excess of 130 
decibels - louder than a 747 aeroplane.  Additionally, the 
valve leakage and extensive production losses were 
causing frequent shutdowns.
Solution
The CCI Valve Doctors™ recommended a more advanced 
severe service valve to signiﬁcantly reduce the noise and 
vibration.  The custom-built 34-stage 100D control valve 
boasts a high ﬂow 10” stroke.  Offering one of the lowest 
outlet energies in the industry, the 100D is capable of 
achieving noise levels as low as 85 decibels - levels 
similar to that heard inside a car.
Employing CCI’s patented DRAG
®
 technology, the 100D 
incorporates experience and expertise drawn from over  
40 years of preventing the development of high ﬂuid 
velocities across all valve settings in multiple industries.  
By incorporating multiple disk stacks featuring varying 
numbers of pressure reducing stages, CCI DRAG
®
  valves 
offer superior control that improves plant performance, 
prevents vibration damage, eliminates excessive noise 
and reduces maintenance and operational costs.
IMI Company:  CCI 
Customer: Statoil 
Location:  Norwegian North Sea
CCI IMPROVES PERFORMANCE AND REDUCES NOISE LEVELS AT SEA
RESOURCE SCARCITY CASE STUDY: SEVERE SERVICE
technology, the development of mega cities will require energy-efﬁcient building solutions, and the 
development of new transportation networks will require technology that meets stringent legislation. 
All our platform businesses continue to focus on Engineering Advantage to deliver sustainable solutions 
whilst also limiting the impact our operations have on local communities and the environment.
STRATEGIC 
CONVERGENCE
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 Requirement
The Salvador Norte Shopping Centre in Salvador, Brazil, 
covers a total area of 107,000m
2
, and spreads over four 
levels creating space for 229 shops. 
From the project outset, energy efﬁciency through the  
use of state-of-the-art cooling technology, and a total 
system solution, were deﬁned as key requirements for  
this new shopping complex.  Key features of the cooling 
system included the use of thermal energy, decoupling of 
cooling and dehumidiﬁcation processes, and the local 
production of cooling energy to avoid energy loss during 
transportation.  All features are aimed at achieving 
optimum energy efﬁciency. 
Following successful co-operation on previous projects 
with both the developer and the cooling system designer, 
TA Hydronics was involved right from the very beginning.
Solution
In the early design phase TA Hydronics supported  
the choice of design principles and cooling system 
technology, and was involved in hydronic calculations 
and component speciﬁcation until project completion. 
The required key features were implemented in  
TA Hydronics’ system solution using products such as 
the Compresso to ensure a well pressurised system, and 
the STAD valve to provide accurate hydronic balancing. 
They not only help to meet the energy efﬁciency targets, 
but also provide the building’s tenants with an accurate 
and controllable room temperature and offer visitors a 
comfortable shopping experience.
Salvador Norte Shopping Centre is the ﬁrst building  
in Brazil to be awarded the “Procel Ediﬁca”, Brazil’s 
classiﬁcation scheme to evaluate energy efﬁciency in 
buildings, and it received an “A” rating!
IMI Company:  TA Hydronics 
Customer: Grupo JCPM (Owner) 
  Interplan (HVAC Consultant) 
Location:  Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
INNOVATIVE COOLING SYSTEM SOLUTION CUTS ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY 
17% FOR SALVADOR’S NEWEST SHOPPING CENTRE
URBANISATION CASE STUDY: INDOOR CLIMATE
STAD valve for accurate 
hydronic balancing
Compresso precision 
pressurisation system
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
12
GROWTH DRIVERS Requirement
Shenzhen Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd is a developer, 
manufacturer and exporter of medical devices for patient 
monitoring, diagnostics and ultrasound imaging systems. 
They required a pre-assembled regulator to control the 
inlet gas for a ventilator, which had to meet stringent 
dimensional requirements and critical performance 
speciﬁcations.
The regulator is at the core of the precise control of 
medical level gas for the ventilator, including the inlet 
pressure control, ﬂow control and pressure monitoring to 
deliver a clean, safe, and stable ﬂow of air and oxygen to  
the patient. 
The unit had to be compatible with both the upstream  
and downstream pneumatic and electronic circuit of the 
ventilator, and make the machine more compact and 
power efﬁcient.  It also had to be user friendly, and easy  
to set up and test. 
IMI Company:  Norgren 
Customer: Shenzhen, Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd 
Location:  China
NORGREN SAVES MEDICAL MANUFACTURER TIME AND MONEY WITH 
NEW INTEGRATED VENTILATOR COMPONENT
AGEING POPULATION CASE STUDY: FLUID POWER 
A0907 regulator manifold  
for ventilator
Solution
The customised Engineering Advantage solution was 
developed between the Mindray Research and 
Development team and the Norgren Asia Technical  
Centre (ATC). The Norgren ATC produced a fully  
integrated pneumatic sub-module in a compact size,  
with Norgren’s cartridge components, including 
proportional valves and high precision regulators.  
The Norgren regulator manifold can be installed directly 
into the ventilator - it is real plug and play.  Each of the 
components, and the fully assembled regulators, are 100% 
pre-tested before they are delivered to the customer.
With the Norgren solution, the ventilator is 15% lighter  
and 20% smaller, making it much more portable and 
convenient.  This solution also saves approximately 60%  
in assembly time, and 10% in cost, which is allowing 
Mindray to rapidly supply more ventilators across China, 
and the world, as the need grows for use with life support 
systems, due to the world’s ageing population.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE IS MEASURED AGAINST FIVE ELEMENTS OF OUR 
STRATEGY, THROUGH GROUPWIDE TARGETS AND IMPROVEMENT MEASURES.
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH 
OPERATING MARGINS
Operating margins are deﬁned as the 
ratio of segmental operating proﬁt as 
a percentage of segmental revenues. 
IMI has a strong track record of 
improving margins over the last 
decade.  In March 2011, we raised 
our long-term objective for operating 
margins to 20% for each of our  
Fluid Controls businesses whilst 
retaining a 15% target for each of  
our Retail Dispense businesses.   
In 2011, we made good progress 
towards these targets with the  
Fluid Controls businesses achieving  
a margin of 18.7% (2010: 18.3%)  
and the Retail Dispense businesses  
a margin of 13.7% (2010: 11.8%).  
Overall, Group operating margins  
rose to 17.5% from 16.7% in 2010.   
Organic revenue growth excludes the 
impact of acquisitions, disposals and 
foreign exchange rate movements. 
The revenues from acquisitions are 
only included in the current year for 
the period during which the revenues 
were also included in the prior period.  
In 2011, the Group’s revenue grew by 
5% on an organic basis reﬂecting 
positive progress in most areas of the 
business despite an uncertain 
macro-economic environment.  
Each business unit of IMI participates in an annual round of planning meetings with the Executive Committee of  
the Board, during which performance and future plans for that business are reviewed and updated.  These business 
plans are all aligned with the Group business strategy and include speciﬁc local, regional and sector targets and  
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which measure business performance.
In addition, individual business reviews take place on a regular basis enabling the Board to review performance  
against tactical and strategic milestones and most importantly allowing informed decisions to be taken at each  
level of the organisation.
-16%
13.1%
16.7%
17.5%
6%
5%
09 10 11
09 10 11
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business overview 14
OUR PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED
LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATES
CO
2
 EMISSIONS
Our CO 2 emissions in 2011 
amounted to approximately 92,000  
tonnes, a fall of 5% on last year 
(2010: 97,000 tonnes). Normalised 
against hours worked, our 
performance improved to 3.3 CO
2 
tonnes/1,000 hours worked (2010: 
3.6 CO
2 tonnes/1,000 hours worked).  
This resulted from a range of good 
initiatives across the Group including 
Project 20:20, where we identiﬁed   
20 best practice projects to 
implement across our top 20 
energy-using sites.  We are now on 
track to meet our target to reduce 
this KPI to no more than 3.2 CO
2 
tonnes/1,000 hours worked by 2012.  
Economic value added (EVA) is 
deﬁned as the segmental operating 
proﬁt after tax less a capital charge. 
The capital charge is arrived at  
by applying the Group’s after tax 
weighted average cost of capital of 
8% to the average invested capital. 
Invested capital is net assets plus net 
debt and the IAS19 pension deﬁcit 
(net of deferred tax), excluding 
exceptional items in the balance 
sheet (being restructuring provisions, 
net derivative liabilities and Severe 
Service investigation costs).  
The 2011 EVA was £200.6m which is 
an increase of 22% over 2010. 
The Group takes seriously its 
responsibility for the safety of all 
employees, contractors and visitors.  
Our three-day lost time accident (LTA) 
rate improved by 28% in 2011 to 
0.18 accidents per 100,000 hours 
worked from 0.25 in 2010.  This is 
ahead of our current health and 
safety target of no more than 0.22 
accidents per 100,000 hours worked 
by 2012.  Whilst we are proud of our  
achievements which enabled this 
improvement, we are maintaining the 
2012 target of 0.22, recognising the 
importance of demonstrating this 
higher level of performance on a 
sustainable basis. 
0.27
£97.3m
£164.5m
£200.6m
3.5
3.6
3.3
0.25
0.18
09 10 11
09 10 11
09 10 11
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 15 CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP LEAD THE BOARD 
TO RECOMMEND THAT THE FINAL DIVIDEND BE INCREASED BY 12% TO 19.0p.  
THIS MAKES A TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR OF 30.0p, AN INCREASE OF 
15% OVER LAST YEAR’S 26.0p.  
In my ﬁrst set of results since taking over as Chairman in 
November, I am pleased to report a strong performance 
by IMI in 2011 with good organic growth and further 
margin improvement.  Group revenues grew by 12% on  
a reported basis and by 5% on an organic basis, after 
adjusting for recent acquisitions and for exchange rate 
movements, reﬂecting improved trading conditions in 
most of our end markets.  Segmental operating proﬁt 
increased by 17% and the operating margin improved 
from 16.7% to 17.5%. Adjusted earnings per share 
increased by 23% to a record 81.5p.  
These results together with our strong performance on 
cash conversion and conﬁdence in the future prospects 
of the Group lead the Board to recommend that the ﬁnal 
dividend be increased by 12% to 19.0p.  This makes a 
total dividend for the year of 30.0p, an increase of 15% 
over last year’s 26.0p.  
Collectively, our three Fluid Controls businesses performed 
well, with a particularly strong performance by Fluid Power.  
Severe Service margins were impacted by an adverse 
sales mix and some operational challenges associated with 
the move to lower cost facilities.  Overall, on an organic 
basis, Fluid Controls revenues grew by 6% with operating 
margins increasing to 18.7% from 18.3% last year.  
In Retail Dispense, both Beverage Dispense and 
Merchandising continued to focus on improving the 
product mix and the quality of their businesses.  
Revenues grew by 3% on an organic basis despite the 
continued targeted exit from some lower margin product 
lines in the Beverage business.  Operating margins have 
again beneﬁted from this improving mix, increasing to 
13.7% from 11.8% last year.  
The IMI Way is our code of responsible business which 
targets the very highest standards of ethical business and 
compliance. The Group has been reinforcing the core values 
and messages of the IMI Way with regular training since its 
launch in 2009.  In 2011, each of our main businesses held 
IMI Way days where, as well as receiving targeted training, 
employees engaged in a number of worthwhile projects in 
their local communities.  In 2012, we have planned a single 
IMI Way day for the whole Group, encompassing over 
15,000 employees.  
I should like to recognise Norman Askew, who retired as 
Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2011.  Norman led 
the Board for over six years, during which time IMI made 
great progress in its development into a leading global 
engineering business, with a clear focus on the precise 
control of ﬂuids in critical applications.  I would personally 
like to thank Norman for his major contribution to the 
Group and the invaluable help he provided me during the 
succession period.  
We were pleased to announce in May 2011 that Sean 
Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, had been promoted 
to the Board and assumed the important additional 
responsibilities for developing IMI’s key account 
management strategy and corporate responsibility agenda. 
Since joining the Board I have had the opportunity to visit 
many of IMI’s operations.  I have been extremely impressed 
by the skills, expertise and energy displayed by my 
colleagues across the world and I am grateful for their 
continued efforts and enthusiasm in helping to deliver this 
year’s strong results.  We continue to invest in our people 
and have once again this year conducted an employee 
engagement survey to ensure that we continue to provide a 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
16 Group operating review
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Roberto Quarta 
Chairman 
1 March 2012
Roberto Quarta  Chairman
working environment that allows them to contribute to their 
full potential.  
IMI is a strong company, with market leading technology in 
many of its global niche markets.  I believe that we are well 
placed for the future with a clearly deﬁned strategy which 
should deliver further sustainable margin improvement and 
long term growth, notably through the acceleration of our 
new product agenda and increased exposure to the faster 
growing emerging markets.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 17 2011 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC 
REVENUE GROWTH OF OVER 5%, RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 17.5%  
AND ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENTS ACROSS MOST AREAS OF THE GROUP.  
Against a macro-economic background where uncertainty 
increased markedly in the second half, the results reﬂect 
the continued beneﬁts that are being derived from the 
fundamental reshaping of the Group over the last decade. 
The consistency of approach has delivered a signiﬁcant 
and sustainable improvement in the underlying quality and 
proﬁtability of the Group.  
The macro-economic environment remains uncertain with 
limited GDP growth forecast in developed Western economies 
in the medium term and with global growth being propelled 
largely through emerging economies.  Within this context 
current trading patterns have nevertheless remained stable as 
we enter 2012, with no material changes in trends witnessed 
over the last few months.
We remain committed to our three pronged strategy of 
gradually increasing each year the proportion of our 
business in our favoured end market niches (‘Strategic 
Convergence’); accelerating our growth through increased 
investment in new products and emerging markets; and 
maintaining a long established upward trend in margins 
through a process of pricing optimisation and year on year 
reductions in our manufacturing and supply chain costs.
Strategic convergence
During the year we continued to develop our long term 
thinking around strategic convergence, providing a route 
map for gradually increasing the percentage of our revenues 
in our sweetspot.  For IMI, strategic convergence means 
prioritising both organic and acquisition investment in favour 
of differentiated ﬂuid technologies, applied to global market 
niches where we already have, or can aspire to, a leadership 
position, and which beneﬁt from a heightened exposure to 
attractive market trends.  These trends include climate 
change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing 
population.  We believe these trends are set to be with us for 
generations, surviving economic cycles and our increasing 
exposure to them will deliver a signiﬁcantly higher level of 
growth over the long term.  
Today just over half of IMI’s operations are positioned 
within the sweetspot which is characterised by  
higher growth, higher margins and greater resilience.   
Over time we would expect to increase signiﬁcantly this 
proportion through disciplined choices around customer 
selection, new product development and acquisitions.   
To support this objective, each of our platform businesses 
has made an assessment of the current strategic 
sweetspot positioning, and has developed a set of plans 
for increasing convergence over the next few years.  
Growth acceleration
Against the background of global macro-economic 
uncertainty with limited market growth expected in 
Western economies, IMI needs to allocate its resources 
carefully to drive future growth.  In particular, we will focus 
on three principal areas:
 Acceleration of new product activity with the 
prioritisation of product applications with high exposure 
to favourable mega trends and to emerging markets.
 Signiﬁcant expansion of our emerging markets 
presence, through accelerated investment in sales and 
engineering resource in the key targeted territories.
 Supplementing our organic initiatives through an active 
acquisition programme, prioritising businesses with 
high sweetspot exposure and a strong emerging 
markets presence.  In this regard we were pleased to 
announce two Severe Service acquisitions, Remosa 
SpA and Grupo InterAtiva, in February 2012.  These 
businesses signiﬁcantly strengthen our isolation valve 
capabilities and our emerging market exposure, notably 
in South America.  We retain a strong balance sheet 
and have a number of additional acquisition 
opportunities in the pipeline. 
Margin sustainability
Funding for our increased investment in growth will be met 
through a continuation of our ongoing initiatives to improve 
margins which remains therefore a key focus for us.  As we 
highlighted in the interim results we have built up a strong 
track record over many years of delivering price and value 
beneﬁts comfortably in excess of any labour cost and 
supply chain inﬂation, the so called “inﬂation equation”, 
irrespective of the macro-economic circumstances.  
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
18 Group operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Martin Lamb 
Chief Executive 
1 March 2012
Martin Lamb  Chief Executive
Looking forward we expect to continue winning the “inﬂation 
equation” over time through optimising prices, driving down 
supply chain costs and delivering substantial productivity 
gains. In addition, our long term programmes to move more 
manufacturing and procurement to lower cost countries is 
continuing and we are gaining traction on our initiatives 
around supplier rationalisation and value engineering. 
Outlook
IMI has delivered another strong set of results in 2011 with 
good growth and record underlying proﬁts, margins and 
earnings.  In light of this performance, and our conﬁdence 
in the future prospects for the business, we are pleased to 
propose an increase in the full year dividend of 15%.
Whilst the global macro-economic outlook remains 
uncertain, we are committed to our well deﬁned plans to 
drive strategic convergence, accelerate future growth, 
deliver further margin improvement and make greater use 
of our strong balance sheet in delivering value enhancing 
acquisitions.  
Based on current market conditions we remain optimistic 
that the Group will make further progress in 2012.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 19 Severe Service
Our Severe Service business delivered 
revenue growth of 27% including the 
results of Zimmermann & Jansen (Z&J) 
and TH Jansen (THJ) since acquisition. 
Organic revenue increased 2% for the 
full year, reﬂecting a stronger second 
half performance with organic growth 
of 5%. 
Shipments of valves continued to be 
strong into liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG) 
applications, offsetting the weaker 
performance in the Fossil Power 
sector resulting from the softer order 
intake in the second half of 2010, and 
in Nuclear, where activity levels have 
been affected since the incident in 
Japan in March 2011.  
Total order intake for Severe Service 
was up 2% for the year and the order 
book ended the year 16% higher than 
at the start of the year as order intake 
once again outpaced shipments. As 
previously indicated, margins were 
impacted by a combination of lower 
new valve margins, notably in the 
Nuclear sector, a less favourable 
aftermarket mix and higher operational 
costs in our new facility in Brno.  
Overall margins for the year were 
15.5% compared to 17.3% in 2010.
Z&J performed well with both order 
intake and shipments showing good 
growth for the full year.  We were 
pleased to announce the acquisition  
of THJ on 17 October 2011 for an 
enterprise value of £15.0m.  THJ is 
highly complementary to Z&J and will 
signiﬁcantly enhance Z&J’s capabilities 
as a leading global provider of custom 
engineered valve, actuation and 
control solutions for critical in-plant 
processes in the Iron & Steel sector.  
The acquisitions of Remosa SpA and 
Grupo InterAtiva in February 2012 
signiﬁcantly strengthen our isolation 
valve capabilities and our emerging 
market exposure. 
The strong order book at the year-end 
gives us conﬁdence that the business 
will demonstrate good revenue growth 
in 2012.  Margins in the ﬁrst half of 
2012 are expected to be at similar 
levels to the second half of 2011. 
Margins should improve in the second 
half with higher new valve margins  
and operational improvements at our 
facility in Brno.  
Fluid Power
Fluid Power continued to perform 
strongly with end markets holding  
up well despite macro-economic 
uncertainty increasing as the year 
progressed.  Whilst organic growth in 
revenues slowed to 6% in the second 
half of the year against tougher 2010 
comparators, organic growth for the 
full year was 11%.  
We have continued to see good 
momentum in our key global sector 
business, which focuses on bespoke 
solutions for key original equipment 
manufacturer (OEM) customers in 
global niche markets.  This grew at 
14% in the full year, compared to  
9% for the rest of the Fluid Power 
business. Of the ﬁve key global 
sectors Commercial Vehicles, Energy 
and Rail grew strongly up 31%,  
14% and 9% respectively with Life 
Sciences and Food & Beverage 
broadly unchanged.  Overall our 
targeted sectors now represent 43% 
of total Fluid Power revenues.  
Our internet, phone and catalogue 
based aftermarket solution, Norgren 
Express, continued to perform well, up 
nearly 10% globally, as we leveraged 
the proven business model in Europe 
across the wider Norgren global 
business.  North America, in particular, 
showed strong growth with a number 
of initiatives to support the aftermarket 
including a new US webstore.  
The business has continued to focus on 
margin improvement with ongoing 
programmes to transfer more 
manufacturing to low cost sites in 
China, the Czech Republic and Mexico, 
to optimise pricing, to drive new 
product development and to deliver 
further savings from value engineering 
and supplier rationalisation.  This has 
resulted in a further improvement in 
margins with full year margins of 19.6% 
and margins in the second half reaching 
our new 20% objective for the ﬁrst time.  
We have again surveyed our key 
customers across all our markets to 
gauge their views on the demand 
outlook for 2012. Within the 
Commercial Vehicle sector we expect 
to see further weakening in Europe, 
partially offset by improved demand in 
North America. In Fluid Power markets 
more generally, demand in Europe 
would appear to have stabilised at 
levels similar to last year whilst 
customers are indicating reasonable 
growth in North America and good 
growth in Asia Paciﬁc. Based on this 
and current demand patterns we 
expect the business to show some 
growth in 2012 with the potential for 
further progress on margins.
Indoor Climate
Indoor Climate revenues were up 2% 
on an organic basis for the full year 
with good growth in the ﬁrst half  
offset by a weaker second half 
performance, which was impacted by 
wholesaler destocking and warmer 
weather across Europe during the 
important autumn heating season.  
FLUID CONTROLS
SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER INDOOR CLIMATE
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
20 Group operating review
OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES The new construction market in 
Europe remained very subdued and 
performance continued to be 
underpinned by good refurbishment 
activity levels.  Overall, refurbishment 
activity represented more than two 
thirds of sales in the year, reﬂecting the 
drive to improve energy efﬁciency 
within existing buildings to comply with 
ever more stringent legislation.  
In line with IMI’s aim to accelerate future 
growth, we increased investment in a 
number of key areas during the year.   
We continued to invest in educating the 
market to help drive demand for our 
energy efﬁcient products and solutions 
with around 83,000 customers attending 
one of our seminars during the year with 
particular focus on North America, 
Germany and China.  This is an increase 
of 25% on 2010.  We also invested in  
a number of centres designed to 
demonstrate hydronic control to our 
customers and recruited 50 more 
hydronic sales engineers.  During the 
year we have also made good progress 
in developing our new range of 
balancing and control valves which will 
expand our overall market opportunity.
Operating margins in the second half 
of 23.8% were broadly in line with the 
underlying margins achieved in the 
second half of the prior year.  Full year 
margins were 22.0%, down from the 
23.8% achieved in 2010.  We were 
successful in recovering higher input 
costs and offsetting the impact  
of exchange rate movements on  
our businesses in Sweden and 
Switzerland which affected the ﬁrst 
half margin performance. 
Underlying new construction markets in 
Europe are expected to remain weak in 
2012 and we are continuing to focus 
our efforts on refurbishment activity, 
growing the business in emerging 
markets and on new product 
development.  The ongoing drive for 
improved energy efﬁciency positions us 
well for accelerating growth over time.  
Beverage Dispense
Beverage Dispense continued to 
perform well during the year with 
overall organic revenue growth of 3% 
on 2010.  We continued to exit a 
number of older, more commoditised, 
lower margin product lines which 
accounted for over 4% of revenue 
indicating an underlying organic 
growth of around 7% for the full year.  
The strongest markets were in the 
Americas where revenues grew by 
10%.  This helped to offset more 
challenging market conditions in 
Europe and in Asia Paciﬁc, where we 
continued to see lower levels of capital 
investment by the major brand owners, 
particularly in China.  
We remain focused on improving the 
quality of the product mix in the 
business, accelerating growth of 
higher margin new products for 
dispensing healthier and indulgence 
beverages such as smoothies, water, 
juice and frozen beverages whilst 
continuing the product exits noted 
above.  This continued focus delivered 
a 28% increase in operating proﬁt to 
£41.1m and resulted in another strong 
uplift in returns with an overall 
operating margin for the year of 13.0% 
(2010: 10.2%).  It is expected that 
margins will continue to improve  
in 2012 based on new product 
contributions, pricing optimisation, 
cost management initiatives and 
further low margin product exits.  
Whilst North America continues to 
show signs of some improvement, 
European markets are likely to remain 
subdued in 2012. There are a number 
of major new product development 
opportunities which have the potential, 
in time, to both accelerate our growth 
and further enhance our margins.
Merchandising
Overall organic growth for the year  
was 3%.  As expected, after strong 
growth in the ﬁrst half, the second half 
was lower mainly due to the large 
automotive project that shipped in the 
second half of 2010.  During the year 
we saw good growth in our cosmetics 
business and also won a number of 
major cosmetics contracts in Europe 
which will ship over the next two to 
three years. Our food and beverage 
business also performed well and  
the automotive sector, which whilst 
modestly down reﬂecting the 
aforementioned large contract, 
continues to show signs of 
improvement with dealers once again 
investing in their showrooms.  
During the year we opened the InVision 
retail science laboratory in Milwaukee, 
US.  This enables us to demonstrate to 
customers how we can deliver a sales 
uplift of their most proﬁtable products 
in a state of the art facility using the 
latest immersive 3D technology.  A 
number of customers have visited the 
site, feedback to date has been very 
positive and new product opportunities 
have emerged as a result.  
Operating margins were sustained at last 
year’s record levels. Whilst 2012 is likely 
to be a year of further consolidation with 
revenues and margins unchanged from 
2011, the Group continues to focus  
on improving the overall quality of the 
business by targeting higher margin 
project opportunities.
RETAIL DISPENSE 
BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 21 THE GROUP’S SEGMENTAL OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN WAS 17.5%, COMPARED 
TO 16.7% IN 2010. IN THE TRADITIONALLY STRONGER SECOND HALF, THE 
GROUP DELIVERED AN OPERATING MARGIN OF 18.0% (2010 H2: 17 .6%).  THE 
SEGMENTAL OPERATING PROFIT WAS UP 17 .0% AT £374.1M (2010: £319.7M).
With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group has 
implemented the amendments to IAS24 ‘Related Party 
Disclosures’, IAS32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ 
and IFRIC14 ‘IAS19-The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, 
Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction’.  
The amendments do not have a material impact on the 
ﬁnancial statements.  Following the ﬁnalisation of the 
goodwill relating to the Zimmermann and Jansen (Z&J) 
acquisition on 31 December 2010, the prior period balance 
sheet has been restated and full details of this restatement 
are included in the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements.  The cash ﬂow statement has also been 
restated to show settlement of currency derivatives 
hedging balance sheet as an investing activity.  This was 
previously recognised as a currency ﬂuctuation. 
In all other respects, these ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared on a consistent basis using the accounting 
policies set out in the IMI Annual Report and ﬁnancial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired Grupo InterAtiva 
(InterAtiva), a Brazilian isolation valve business located in 
Sorocaba, near Sao Paolo, from its founding partners  
for an initial cash consideration of £22m and contingent 
consideration up to a maximum of £21.2m to be paid 
based on its performance over the next three years.   
The consideration is being funded out of IMI’s existing 
resources and banking facilities.  In the 2011 calendar year, 
InterAtiva’s unaudited sales were £12m and underlying 
EBITDA was £3m.  All of the 2011 sales were in the 
fast-growing South American markets.  
On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired Remosa SpA 
and related companies (collectively Remosa), a leading 
engineering business specialising in valves and related 
ﬂow control products for severe applications, primarily  
in the petrochemical market, for an enterprise value of 
approximately £84.7m (€100m), being cash consideration 
of £69.8m (€82.4m) and debt assumed of approximately 
£14.9m (€17.6m).  The consideration was funded out of 
IMI’s existing resources and banking facilities.  The main 
Remosa manufacturing facility is located in Sardinia.  In the 
2011 calendar year, Remosa’s unaudited sales were 
£40.7m (€48m) and underlying EBITDA was £6.8m (€8m). 
On 17 October 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the 
share capital of TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH (THJ) for  
an enterprise value of £12.8m, net of £2.2m due from  
the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the 
completion accounts process.  THJ designs, manufactures 
and sells isolation valves for the Iron & Steel industry from 
its manufacturing facility near Saarbrücken in Germany. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired was £7.7m, 
resulting in goodwill of £1.3m.  The net assets comprised 
customer relationships of £6.4m, an order book of £1.1m, 
property, plant and equipment of £2.9m, working capital 
balances of £3.3m (including trade and other receivables of 
£3.7m) less £6.0m of net debt and deferred tax liabilities. 
In 2011 the Group’s revenues were up 12% on a reported 
basis.  Excluding a favourable exchange impact of £19m 
and the contribution from acquisitions, organic sales 
growth was 5%.  The following review of our business 
areas for 2011 compares the performance of our 
operations as reported under IFRS8:  ‘Operating 
Segments’ with 2010.  In the below analysis, revenue 
growth has been stated on a constant currency basis.
In Fluid Controls, excluding both Z&J’s ﬁrst year 
contribution and THJ’s contribution since its acquisition, 
Severe Service revenues returned to growth in the second 
half to increase by 2% in the year, with strong shipments  
in LNG offsetting the effects of a lower brought forward 
order book in Fossil Power and depressed demand in the 
Nuclear market.  As expected, margins fell to 15.5% for  
the full year (2010: 17.3%) principally due to the adverse 
mix variance on lower volume new valve shipments and 
lower after-market activity.  Z&J’s contribution to the  
Group result was in line with expectations and it ﬁnished 
the year strongly. 
Fluid Power continued to perform strongly in 2011, growing 
at 11% for the year reﬂecting a continuing improvement in 
its end markets with particularly strong growth from the 
Commercial Vehicle, Rail and Energy sectors.  The key 
global sectors now represent 43% (2010: 41%) of Fluid 
Power revenues.  Operating margins continued to show 
strong improvement at 19.6% for the year compared to 
16.6% in 2010 due to the underlying quality of the business 
and its impetus in improving operational efﬁciencies, moving 
to lower cost manufacturing locations and securing 
procurement beneﬁts.
The Indoor Climate business grew by 2% in the year as  
a result of strong levels of refurbishment activity more  
than offsetting subdued demand for new commercial 
construction builds and the strength of its customer 
relationships.  Operating margins were 22.0% compared  
to 23.8%, partially driven by adverse transactional 
exchange rates.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
22 Group operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW Douglas Hurt  Finance Director
In Retail Dispense, the Beverage Dispense business 
continued to recover and posted 3% growth in spite of the 
continuing impact of the exit of lower margin product lines. 
These product lines accounted for 4% of 2010 revenue 
indicating an underlying growth rate for the year of  
closer to 7%.  Operating margins improved to 13.0% 
(2010: 10.2%) for the year helped by the favourable mix 
and further improvement in operational efﬁciencies.   
In Merchandising, sales growth was 3% for the year 
following a strong ﬁrst half, particularly in the automotive 
and beverage sectors.  Operating margins were held at 
15.0% (2010: 15.0%) in spite of the prior year beneﬁting 
from a property disposal and insurance claim which 
improved the 2010 margin by one percentage point. 
The Group’s segmental operating proﬁt margin was 17.5%, 
compared to 16.7% in 2010.  In the traditionally stronger 
second half, the Group delivered an operating margin of 
18.0% (2010 H2: 17.6%).  The segmental operating proﬁt 
was up 17.0% at £374.1m (2010: £319.7m).
Interest costs on net debt of £16.9m (2010: £15.3m) were 
covered 23 times (2010: 24 times) by earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of 
£391.7m  (2010: £369.2m).
A loss arose on the revaluation of ﬁnancial instruments and 
derivatives under IAS39 of £2.1m (2010: gain of £12.3m) 
principally reﬂecting movements in exchange rates during 
the year on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Proﬁt from continuing operations before tax and exceptional 
items was up 19% at £363.4m (2010: £304.4m).
Restructuring costs in the year were £23.5m (2010: £16.0m) 
as the Group continued to seek operational efﬁciencies and 
move more activity to lower cost manufacturing locations. 
Of this amount the largest costs were in the Severe Service 
(£11.9m) and Fluid Power (£5.5m) businesses and principally 
relate to the costs of relocating manufacturing activities to 
low cost manufacturing locations and other value chain 
improvements.  The Group expects to continue to incur 
restructuring costs in 2012 of approximately £20m as part  
of this ongoing initiative. 
Acquired intangible amortisation increased to £32.3m 
(2010: £7.0m) following the acquisition of Z&J in 2010.  
The Z&J order book is now fully amortised, which will 
reduce the 2012 charge, but the charge will increase  
due to the amortisation of THJ, Remosa and InterAtiva 
intangible assets. 
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations was £301.4m 
(2010: £306.1m). 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 23 A summary of the major changes in revenue and proﬁt  
over each six month period compared to the prior period  
is as follows:
  Revenue   PBTE*   PBT   
  £m £m £m
First half 
2010  925 136.4 133.5 
Effects of currency translation (2) 2.0 2.0 
Acquisitions 39 6.9 6.9 
Organic growth 71 21.9 21.9 
Net interest cost  0.1 0.1 
Other ﬁnancing items  4.0 4.0 
Financial instruments excluding  
 economic hedge 
 contract gains and losses   (3.7) 
Restructuring costs   (6.6) 
Acquired intangible amortisation    (13.8) 
Reversal of economic hedge  
contract gains and losses (1)
2011 1,032 171.3 144.3
Second half 
2010  986  168.0  172.6  
Effects of currency translation 21  4.1  4.1  
Acquisitions 57  11.7  11.7  
Organic growth 32  7.8  7.8  
Net interest cost   (1.7) (1.7) 
Other ﬁnancing items   2.2  2.2  
Financial instruments excluding       
 economic hedge   
 contract gains and losses     (12.1) 
Restructuring costs     (0.9) 
Employee beneﬁt curtailment -  
 UK Scheme     (15.1) 
Acquired intangible amortisation     (11.5) 
Reversal of economic hedge   
 contract gains and losses 3       
2011  1,099  192.1  157.1    
Year 2,131  363.4  301.4
 
*  Proﬁt before tax and exceptional items.
 
  Change 2011 2010  
  %  £m £m
Revenue       
First half +12  1,032  925 
Second half +11  1,099  986 
  +12  2,131  1,911
Segmental operating proﬁt       
First half +21  176.4  145.6 
Second half +14  197.7  174.1
  +17  374.1  319.7
PBTE*       
First half +26  171.3  136.4 
Second half +14  192.1  168.0
  +19  363.4  304.4
Proﬁt before tax       
First half +8  144.3  133.5  
Second half -9  157.1  172.6 
    -2  301.4  306.1 
Restructuring costs       
First half   (9.9) (3.3) 
Second half   (13.6) (12.7)
     (23.5) (16.0)
Employee beneﬁt curtailment -  
 UK scheme       
Second half    -  15.1 
     -  15.1 
Acquired intangible amortisation       
 and impairment       
First half   (17.4) (3.6) 
Second half   (14.9) (3.4)
     (32.3) (7.0)
Financial instruments excluding     
 economic hedge contract 
 gains and losses       
First half   0.3  4.0  
Second half   (6.5) 5.6 
      (6.2) 9.6
 
*  Proﬁt before tax and exceptional items.
Half year analysis
The comparison for the ﬁrst and second halves of the year 
is as follows:
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
24 Group operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW Taxation
After the tax charge for the year of £97.7m (2010: £92.5m), 
the proﬁt from continuing operations after tax was £203.7m 
(2010: £213.6m).  The effective tax rate for the Group 
before exceptional items reduced to 28% (2010: 30%) 
during the year as a result of business re-organisations, 
together with a strong focus on global tax incentives and 
tax compliance management.  These commercial initiatives 
are expected to continue to improve the Group’s taxation 
proﬁle.  In addition, exceptional tax relief of £15.1m and 
exceptional tax charges of £11.0m, netting to a tax credit 
of £4.1m (2010: £1.2m charge), arose in connection with 
business restructuring and other exceptional costs.  Taxes 
paid in the year of £90.9m (2010: £56.3m) have increased 
due to the signiﬁcant growth in proﬁts in the previous year, 
but remain below the level of the tax charge.
Discontinued operations
There were no operations that became classiﬁed as 
discontinued during 2011.  In 2010 income of £12.8m was 
recognised in respect of discontinued operations, being  
a £5.4m partial rebate of a ﬁne originally imposed on a 
business in 2005, which the Group disposed of in 2002 
and £7.4m deferred contingent consideration received in 
respect of the Polypipe disposal in 2005. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS reduced 10.2% to 63.2p (2010: 70.4p) and 
diluted EPS was 62.1p (2010: 69.4p).  The Board considers 
that a more meaningful indication of the underlying 
performance of the Group is provided by earnings from 
continuing operations before charging/(crediting) 
exceptional items after tax.  Details of this calculation are 
given in note 9 to the Group ﬁnancial statements.  On this 
basis the adjusted EPS from continuing operations was 
81.5p, an increase of 23% over last year’s 66.3p.
Cash ﬂow
The Group’s consolidated statement of cash ﬂows is 
shown on page 74.  The change in net debt is summarised 
in the table opposite.
The operating cash ﬂow from continuing operations was 
£307m (2010: £335m).  This represents a conversion rate  
of segmental operating proﬁt after restructuring costs into 
operating cash ﬂow of 88% (2010: 110%).  Cash spent on 
property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired 
intangibles in the year was £59m (2010: £51m) which was 
equivalent to 1.2 times (2010: 1.0 times) depreciation  
and amortisation thereon.  Expenditure on research and 
development in the year was £43m (2010: £42m).  Of this 
amount development costs capitalised in the year were 
£4m (2010: £5m).
After payment of interest and tax, the free cash ﬂow 
generated from operations was £208m (2010: £264m).   
The additional pension contributions of £53m comprised 
£17m in accordance with the repayment plan agreed 
following the 2008 actuarial valuation of the UK Fund  
and an additional contribution of £36m agreed following 
completion of the 2011 actuarial valuation.  After Severe 
Service investigation costs (and in 2010 the refund of  
the EU ﬁne) free cash ﬂow before corporate activity was 
£153m (2010: £200m).  The cash outﬂow on acquisitions  
of £8.9m included a receipt of £3.6m in respect of the 
ﬁnalisation of the Z&J acquisition and £12.5m for THJ,  
of which £2.2m is subject to repayment through the 
completion process.  Net debt of £2.5m was also taken on 
as part of the acquisition.  Dividends paid to shareholders 
totalled £89m (2010: £71m) and there was a net cash 
outﬂow of £7m in respect of shares purchased and issued 
(2010: £28m).  The net cash ﬂow was £44m (2010: £27m) 
which reduced net debt to £108m (2010: £145m).
   Restated
  2011 2010 
  £m £m
EBITDA* from continuing operations 391.7  369.2  
Working capital requirements (13.0) 32.2  
Capital expenditure (including  
 development expenditure) (58.9) (50.8) 
Other (13.0) (15.8)
Operating cash ﬂow** 306.8  334.8
Tax paid (90.9) (56.3) 
Interest/derivatives (8.3) (14.2)
Operating cash ﬂow after  
 interest and tax 207.6  264.3 
Severe Service investigation costs    
 and ﬁne (2.1) (4.3) 
Additional pension scheme funding (52.9) (65.4) 
Refund of EU ﬁne  -  5.4
Free cash ﬂow before  
 corporate activity 152.6  200.0 
Acquisitions (including  
 non-controlling interests) (8.9) (129.8) 
Polypipe earnout recovery  -  7.4  
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (88.8) (70.9) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling    
 interests  -  (0.5) 
Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4)  -  
Net purchase of shares (6.6) (27.9) 
Investment in pension partnership by   
 UK Pension Fund  -  48.6  
Net cash ﬂow (excluding debt  
 repaid/drawndown)  43.9  26.9
Opening net debt (145.4) (172.4) 
Net debt acquired  (2.5)  -  
Foreign exchange translation (4.2) 0.1  
Closing net debt (108.2) (145.4)
* Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment.
** Operating cash ﬂow is the cash generated from the 
operations shown in the consolidated statement of cash 
ﬂows less cash spent acquiring property, plant and 
equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets and 
investments; plus cash received from the sale of property, 
plant and equipment and the sale of investments.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 25 Balance sheet
Net debt at the year end was £108m compared to £145m 
at the end of the previous year.  The year end net debt to 
EBITDA ratio was 0.3 times (2010: 0.4 times).
At the end of 2011 the US loan notes totalled £255m 
(2010: £252m), with a weighted average maturity of 5.8 
years (2010: 6.8 years) and other loans totalled £1m (2010: 
£16m).  Total committed bank loan facilities available to the 
Group at the year end were £250m (2010: £226m) of which 
£nil (2010: £13m) was drawn.
Intangible assets
The value of the Group’s intangible assets decreased to 
£497m at 31 December 2011 (2010: £519m) because the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles (particularly the Z&J 
order book) exceeded the acquired intangibles and goodwill 
recognised on the THJ acquisition.  The amortisation charge 
will reduce in 2012 as a consequence of the high ﬁrst year 
charge on the Z&J acquisition in 2011, but will increase due 
to the impact of the THJ, Remosa and InterAtiva acquisitions. 
Property, plant and equipment
The net book value of the Group’s investment in property, 
plant and equipment at 31 December 2011 was £248m 
(2010: £241m).  The increase arose because capital 
expenditures of £52m more than offset depreciation and 
the reversal of impairments of £41m whilst exchange 
differences reduced the balance by £4m. 
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity at the end of December was £565m, 
an increase of £39m since the end of 2010, which includes 
the proﬁt attributable to the shareholders for the year of 
£200m, less an after-tax actuarial loss on the deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension plans of £69m and the 2010 ﬁnal and 2011 
interim dividends totalling £89m.
Share buybacks
No shares were repurchased by the Company during the 
year.  0.8m (2010: 3.6m) shares costing £8.0m (2010: 
£29.5m) were purchased by the IMI Employee Beneﬁt Trust 
for potential use in relation to employee share schemes.
Dividends
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal dividend in respect of 
2011 of 19.0p per share, an increase of 12% over last 
year’s level.  This makes a total dividend for the year of 
30.0p (2010: 26.0p).  The cost of the ﬁnal dividend is 
expected to be £60m, giving a total dividend cost of £95m 
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.  Dividend 
cover based on adjusted earnings is 2.7 times.
Pensions 
The Group has 75 (2010: 79) deﬁned beneﬁt obligations in 
operation as at 31 December 2011.  It recognises there is a 
funding and investment risk inherent within deﬁned beneﬁt 
arrangements and has, therefore, continued to undertake a 
number of key initiatives to manage this risk, including the 
closure of one scheme to new entrants and one to future 
accrual.  In addition, the Group has settled four pension 
arrangements, two of which were in Japan (replacing the 
deﬁned beneﬁt plans with a deﬁned contribution scheme) 
resulting in a gain of £1.5m.
The net liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations at  
31 December 2011 was £204m compared to £199m at the 
end of 2010.  The increase principally arose from the use  
of a lower discount rate as a result of the reduction in 
corporate bond yields.  The impact of this was offset by  
our adoption of a lower long-term inﬂation assumption, our 
liability management initiatives and cash contributions.
The IMI Pension Fund (the Fund) in the UK is the largest 
employee beneﬁt obligation within the Group.  The Fund 
was closed to new entrants at the end of 2005 and to 
future accrual on 31 December 2010.  Also in 2010, the 
Group made a contribution of £48.6m to the Fund which 
was invested into a partnership as described in the 2010 
Annual Report.
A payment of £16.8m was made to the Fund in July 2011. 
The latest actuarial valuation of the Fund as at 31 March 
2011 has now been completed.  This valuation showed a 
funding deﬁcit at 31 March 2011 of £120m.  A revised 
recovery plan has been agreed with the Fund Trustee and 
as a result a contribution of £36.1m was paid in December 
2011.  Thereafter contributions will revert to the previously 
agreed annual payments of £16.8m until 2016 or full 
funding if sooner.  The next triennial valuation of the Fund 
will be conducted as at 31 March 2014.
During the year the Group offered certain members the 
opportunity to participate in an Enhanced Transfer Value 
exercise, which was ﬁnalised as at 31 December 2011.  
This exercise resulted in enhanced beneﬁts for the 
members but a reduction in the liability of £11.7m which 
after accrual for the payment of the enhancements and 
national insurance resulted in a £2.1m gain in the 2011 
income statement.
The Group continues to explore various options with the 
Trustee to reduce further the funding and investment risk  
in respect of the Fund and a similar Pensions Increase 
Exchange will be ﬁnalised early in 2012.
The Group will also continue its programme of closing 
overseas deﬁned beneﬁt plans where they are neither 
mandatory nor an operational necessity.
Treasury policy
IMI’s centralised Treasury function provides treasury 
services to Group companies including funding liquidity, 
credit, foreign exchange, interest rate and base metal 
commodity management.  It ensures that the Group 
operates within Board-approved guidelines in order to 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
26 Group operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW  Average At 31 December
 2011 2010 2011 2010
Euro 1.15  1.17 1.20  1.17 
US Dollar 1.60  1.54  1.55 1.57
minimise the major ﬁnancial risks and provide a stable 
ﬁnancial base.  The use of ﬁnancial instruments and 
derivatives is permitted where the effect is to minimise  
risk to the Group. Compliance with approved policies  
is monitored through a control and reporting system.  
There have been no changes in the year or since the 
year-end to the major ﬁnancial risks to the Group or the 
way in which they are managed.
Foreign exchange and interest rate risk
Further information on how the Group manages its 
exposure to these ﬁnancial risks is shown in note 18 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.  The translation impact on the 2011 
segmental operating proﬁt was an improvement of £6.4m. 
The most important foreign currencies for the Group 
remain the Euro and the US Dollar and the relevant rates of 
exchange were:
If the exchange rates as at 28 February 2012 of US$1.59 
and €1.18 had been applied to our 2011 results, it is 
estimated that revenue and segmental operating proﬁt 
would both have been 1% lower.
Economic value added
Economic value added (EVA) is deﬁned as the segmental 
operating proﬁt after tax less a capital charge.  The capital 
charge is arrived at by applying the after tax weighted 
average cost of capital to the average invested capital.  
Invested capital is deﬁned as net assets plus net debt and 
the IAS19 pension deﬁcit (net of deferred tax), excluding 
exceptional items in the balance sheet (being restructuring 
provisions, net derivative liabilities and Severe Service 
investigation costs).  For 2011 the segmental operating 
proﬁt was £374.1m and the Net Operating Proﬁt after Tax 
(NOPAT) was £269.4m.  The Group’s invested capital at  
the end of 2011 was £880.9m comprising £772.7m of  
net assets excluding exceptional items and £108.2m of  
net debt.  The average invested capital was £860.3m.  
Applying the 2011 WACC of 8.0% to the average invested 
capital gives a charge of £68.8m.  The EVA in 2011 was 
£200.6m, representing an increase of 22% over the 2010 
EVA of £164.5m.  EVA has been calculated on a consistent 
basis with 2010. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Business Overview and the 
Group Operating Review on pages 4 to 21.  The ﬁnancial 
position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in this Financial Review. 
In addition, note 18 to the ﬁnancial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.  
Note 19 to the ﬁnancial statements addresses the 
management of the funding risks of the Group’s employee 
beneﬁt obligations.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources together 
with long-standing relationships with a number of 
customers, suppliers and funding providers across 
different geographic areas and industries.  The Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the 
Group is able to operate within the level of its current 
bank facilities without needing to renew facilities expiring 
before March 2013.  As a consequence, the directors 
believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the uncertainties 
inherent in the current economic outlook.  Additionally, 
as part of the Group’s normal ongoing funding review, 
the Group has received indicative offers of additional 
funding facilities and has signed a new £25m facility 
since the year-end. 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future.  Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Report and ﬁnancial statements.
Share price and shareholder return
The share price at 31 December 2011 was 760p  
(2010: 945p), a decrease of 20% over the year.   
Based on the year-end share price, the proposed total 
dividend of 30.0p represents a yield of 3.9%.
 
Douglas Hurt 
Finance Director 
1 March 2012
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 27 Whenever you meet an IMI person you will ﬁnd someone 
who:
 pursues excellence and delivers results 
 innovates and provides value to our customers 
 acts with integrity
As a reﬂection of these values, we take our responsibilities 
to the environment and the communities in which we 
operate very seriously.  We put particular emphasis  
on ensuring that our management of people, social, 
environmental and economic issues is aligned and 
integrated with the overall management of the business.  
We strongly believe that high standards of responsibility 
impact positively on proﬁtability, returns to shareholders, 
reputation and growth.  
 Health and safety
 Supporting our customers’ responsible business 
priorities
 Supply chain risk management
 Energy efﬁciency and carbon management
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES – FOCUSING ON EXCELLENCE
THE IMI WAY
It is our desire to become the most admired and innovative engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in 
the world, and we believe that this admiration comes not only from great products and services but also from being 
a responsible business. 
During 2011, we trained 436 IMI Way trainers to deliver 
face-to-face training to all our employees worldwide. 
To support this commitment, IMI continues to be a signatory 
to the UN Global Compact, which establishes standards 
for human rights, labour practices and anti-corruption. 
Our continued inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and Dow 
Jones Sustainability Europe indices is strong evidence  
of our responsible business progress and continued 
commitment.  
All of our businesses are required to have their own 
responsible business objectives, which are fully aligned to 
the Group’s four responsible business priorities.  These 
key priorities are reviewed annually to ensure they remain 
relevant and appropriate, whilst the performance of our 
businesses is assessed through an annual audit, and 
quarterly reviews where best practice ideas are shared.   
All of our employees receive annual IMI Way face-to-face 
training. 
Our commitment to responsible business starts with the IMI Way, which sets 
out our core values. 
The IMI Way is a driver for responsible 
growth and directly supports our 
responsible business priorities:
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
28
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Responsible business FLUID TECHNOLOGIES
Precision ﬂow control in 
critical applications:
  Valves
  Actuators
   Controllers and 
positioners
NICHE LEADERSHIP
  Market leadership in 
global niches
  Blue chip clients 
supported by world class 
Key Account Management
  Customised solutions 
delivered through 
Engineering Advantage
  Extensive aftermarket
GROWTH DRIVERS
  Climate change
  Resource scarcity
  Urbanisation
  Ageing population
IMI is pleased to report that it is the ﬁrst company in the world to be accredited by Investing in 
Integrity for its commitment to acting with integrity at all times. The accreditation process was an 
independent audit process which involved reviewing our policies and procedures, face-to-face 
interviews with many senior leaders of the worldwide businesses and extensive surveys of our 
employees in all of our key territories. The accreditation is a collaboration between the Institute 
of Business Ethics and the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment.
DOING BUSINESS THE IMI WAY IS THE RIGHT WAY
Health and safety promotes a strong culture to protect 
our people, the environment, adjacent communities and 
other stakeholders.  In 2011, we continued to make good 
progress in our health and safety performance with a  
28% improvement in our key lost time accident measure.
Supporting our customers’ responsible business 
priorities is integral to our Key Account Management  
and to delivering Engineering Advantage.  We place 
signiﬁcant emphasis on helping our customers  
meet their own responsible business commitments  
recognising the opportunities for sustainability and 
developing our respective businesses.
Supply chain risk management is fundamental as  
we work in partnership with suppliers to develop our 
Engineering Advantage.  IMI’s manufacturing plants  
in emerging economies such as Mexico, China,  
the Czech Republic and India have all been developed 
with full attention to health, safety and environmental risks, 
energy efﬁciency, and lean manufacturing techniques. 
Energy efﬁciency and carbon management supports 
our growth drivers of climate change, resource scarcity 
and urbanisation and is key to delivering responsible 
solutions. Integral to this is managing our own facilities 
and we have various programmes in place to reduce 
energy consumption and normalised CO
2 emissions 
across our locations around the world.
AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The IMI Way is part of our roadmap to success, guiding our decision making and our ability to bring about 
strategic convergence.
Our values underpin our responsible business priorities and we are focused 
not just on what we achieve, but on how we achieve it.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 29 HEALTH AND SAFETY / ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Health and safety
We promote a strong health and safety culture to minimise 
risk for our people, the enviroment, adjacent communities 
and other stakeholders.  During 2011, we worked hard  
at building on the good performance of recent years.   
We now have 50 full-time health, safety and environmental 
professionals across the Group, up 11% on 2010.  We  
also increased capital expenditure in this critical area.   
Our overall >3 day lost time accident rates per 100,000 
hours worked have fallen by over 50% since 2008 and in 
2011 a further improvement of 28% was achieved.  This 
performance demonstrates the continued clear focus and 
commitment at all levels across the Group on health and 
safety matters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whilst we are extremely proud of our achievements  
which enabled this improvement, we are maintaining  
the 2012 target of 0.22, recognising the importance of 
demonstrating this higher level of performance on a 
sustainable basis.  
In achieving these results, we focused very strongly on 
communication of a positive approach to health and safety 
across IMI.  This includes our twin initiatives ‘Safety Alerts’ 
and ‘Safety Stand-downs’.  The ‘Safety Alerts’ aim to 
document lessons learned from accidents to prevent  
other incidents across IMI and ‘Safety Stand-downs’ are 
site-focused brieﬁngs on the root causes and lessons 
learned from accidents.  
Energy efﬁciency and carbon management
IMI has an ongoing commitment to reduce its CO
2 
emissions and become more energy efﬁcient in both our 
products and processes.  This has both environmental and 
cost saving beneﬁts and in 2011 we launched a major new 
initiatve called Project 20:20.  This project involves our 20 
largest energy-using sites, which account for more than 
70% of our energy consumption.  The aim of the project is 
to identify 20 best practice projects to implement across  
IMI and to push for 20% reduction in normalised CO
2 
emissions at these key sites.  The project has involved an 
intensive programme of energy surveys, best practice 
sharing, regular conference calls and tracking project 
implementation.
During 2011, we have seen an 8% reduction in our key 
carbon usage indicator to 3.3 CO
2 tonnes per 1,000 hours 
worked.  Our target by the end of 2012 is 3.2 and as such 
we are now moving in the right direction.  Undoubtedly,  
the milder winter weather in 2011 helped, but the 
implementation of our energy efﬁciency measures has  
had a strong impact and will continue to do so into 2012 
and beyond.  
CO
2
 EMISSIONS
LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATES (>3 DAYS)
0.27
3.5
3.6
3.3
0.25
0.18
09 10 11
09 10 11
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
30
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Responsible business OUR CUSTOMERS’ RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES
Supporting our customers’ responsible business priorities is integral to our continued success and in particular to our 
Key Account Management and to delivering Engineering Advantage.  Our focus on market leadership in global niches is 
reinforced by our ability to deliver on our customers’ need to demonstrate responsibility.  We place signiﬁcant emphasis 
on helping our customers to meet their responsible business commitments – from diversity targets to carbon emissions 
– ensuring superior long term value for our customers and inspiring their trust.
Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact 
on customer demand for our products and services – many of which are clearly dedicated to energy efﬁcient operation. 
Our customers also value the high standard of ethical business practices set out in the IMI Way, which is particularly 
relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher.
“Reducing climate change can start with effective indoor climate 
control.  TA Hydronics is the industry leader in green solutions for 
indoor climate control.”     Sean Toomes, Executive Director
One of the largest LNG projects in the world, focused 
on energy optimisation and the environment, turned 
to our Severe Service business to provide critical  
ball valves that can meet cryogenic temperatures 
(below -162°C) and provide 100% shut-off with 
proven reliability.  In total, 2,700 valves were ordered 
for the Gorgon LNG plant in Australia, ensuring 
optimal plant efﬁciency and energy consumption.
France’s ﬁrst energy-positive building actually 
produces more energy than it consumes. It was 
designed to cut back on consumption by 65% 
compared to those built to RT 2005 standards, 
France’s most recent energy regulation for buildings. 
The TA Hydronics team in France were able to 
provide a complete system solution for the building’s 
pressurisation, balancing and thermostatic control 
requirements thereby maximising comfort, whilst 
minimising energy usage.
“CCI supports our customers’ responsible business priorities.  
We work with our customers proactively to identify and 
manage issues that are beneﬁcial to all parties.”     
Mike Semens-Flanagan, President CCI
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 31 SUPPLY CHAIN AND MANUFACTURING
IMI sources components, materials and services for its manufacturing and sales operations from many countries around 
the world.  We recognise that there are local and national differences in business standards, but we will only procure from 
suppliers who have the same commitment to a set of minimum standards. 
IMI has set out these standards in the IMI Supply Chain 
Policy.  It is our stated objective that IMI will only trade with 
suppliers that meet or exceed these minimum standards, or 
with suppliers that can demonstrate progression towards 
these standards over an agreed and suitable timescale and 
who act according to the published IMI Way guidelines in 
relation to supply chain and procurement activities.
 
Each IMI Company must therefore ensure that suppliers 
comply with or exceed the following minimum requirements:
 Suppliers will comply with all appropriate legislative 
requirements

No forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour will be used
 No children are to be employed by IMI’s suppliers 
 Employees of our suppliers shall be paid wages and 
beneﬁts that meet or exceed minimum national 
requirements
 Employees of our suppliers shall work hours that 
comply with national laws
 Our suppliers shall protect the health and safety of  
their employees to standards in keeping with local 
expectations of good practice
 Our suppliers shall protect the environment to 
standards in keeping with local expectations of  
good practice 
To ensure compliance with these requirements, IMI 
developed a 3-step audit process which resulted in 140 
supplier audits in 2010 and 124 supplier audits in 2011.  
The audits in 2011 covered the following regions:
 Asia (China, India and Korea) 40 audits
 Central & South America (Mexico and Brazil) 64 audits
 Central & Eastern Europe (Poland, Ukraine and the 
Czech Republic) 20 audits
The audits challenge the suppliers on labour standards, 
ethics, health and safety and the environment in keeping 
with the IMI Way.  As a result of the audit process, we 
identiﬁed 59 suppliers as a priority for additional review, 
following which we exited agreements with ﬁve suppliers 
due to responsible business and performance issues.  
However, the majority of the suppliers were totally 
committed to the IMI Way message and are working with 
us to improve their operations and businesses.  In addition, 
in 2011, 62 of our supplier auditors across the world 
received additional training.  In 2012, we will continue our 
audits of suppliers, invest in auditor training and complete 
our “audit-the-auditor” programme to ensure that all IMI 
supplier auditors have a consistently high standard when 
reviewing the supply base.
In the UK, Artform made a donation to The Water 
Project helping a community in Sierra Leone.  
The charity focuses on building long-term, truly 
sustainable water projects.  The donation resulted 
in the purchase of a hand well pump alongside 
supplying two school classrooms with safe water.  
Clean water doesn’t just save lives, it changes  
them forever.
Responsibly sourcing aluminium from suppliers 
is fundamental to our manufacturing operations.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
32
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Responsible business OTHER IMI ACTIVITIES
Community engagement 
The communities where we operate are crucial to the 
success of IMI.  We have a duty to be a responsible 
business citizen and to meet our commitments to these 
communities.  Although our projects and facilities can  
bring beneﬁts to local communities by creating jobs and 
investment in the surrounding area, they can also give rise 
to concerns. 
Consequently, IMI works to be a good neighbour and 
demonstrates high economic, social and environmental 
standards.  We also remain respectful of human rights and 
assist our local communities through charitable activities 
and community volunteering.
Employee investment and talent development
We continue to focus on the development and engagement 
of our employees to ensure we have the right skills and 
expertise to fulﬁl our ambitions as a company.
In 2011, we conducted our second Employee Engagement 
Survey.  Our response rate increased by 3% from 2009 and 
our employees reported even higher levels of commitment 
and engagement, indicating that the actions we had taken 
in response to the 2009 survey had been to good effect.  
To directly address the employee concerns from 2011,  
we will launch a new global performance management 
programme in 2012.
As well as local training within business units to support 
our employees, we continued to invest in our leadership 
talent in 2011 via our IMI Leaders Boot Camp programme, 
delivering high quality training and on-going development 
to our top talent.  We also launched our Management 
Fundamentals programme which provided training and 
development to around 100 managers globally, developing 
The Reynosa team at IMI Cornelius, Mexico, was  
able to purchase, deliver and present new equipment 
to three local charities. Through these donations, over 
500 children will enjoy the beneﬁt of new advanced 
equipment to support their treatment, help their 
therapy and improve their lifestyles.
In Germany, Norgren Alpen works alongside Spix, a 
non-proﬁt community organisation, to help people 
with learning disabilities become active members  
of the labour market.  In this win-win situation, 
Norgren can relieve its regular employees of some 
of the simpler tasks whilst Spix clients, who identify 
enthusiastically with Norgren, enjoy the protection 
of attending a sheltered workshop, increasing their 
living standards and self-esteem.
our future leaders.  Finally, we developed job families for 
our specialist areas (including ﬁnance, health and safety 
and Key Account Management) to ensure development of 
this key talent and to create visible career paths for these 
employees.  
The IMI graduate programme continues to provide  
high-quality engineering and future leadership talent into 
the business.
All of the investment in our development programmes has 
the aim of ensuring that we have a diverse pipeline of 
employees for future senior leadership and specialist roles 
in the business.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 33 The Group’s European revenues are principally derived from 
Northern and Central Europe, however, the status of the global 
economy and in particular the uncertainties in the Eurozone could 
adversely affect the Group’s revenues. The Group’s cost base 
includes many costs that cannot be reduced in the short-term 
in line with reductions in proﬁtability. The Group may also be 
required to reassess the carrying value of acquired goodwill and 
other assets if certain end-markets deteriorate further or for longer, 
which may result in impairment charges.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT
In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the 
Group’s long-term performance. The Group has in place an established risk management structure and internal controls 
framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk. A summary of the Group’s risk 
management processes is given on page 46 and the Group’s approach to corporate social responsibility and associated 
risks is described on pages 28 to 33.  In addition to the risks described here, the Group is also exposed to a number of 
ﬁnancial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest 
rates and commodity prices.  A description of these risks and the Group’s centralised approach to managing them is 
described in note 18 to the ﬁnancial statements.  Further information about pension liabilities is given in note 19 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
 
Diverse business portfolio serving different customers  
and markets
 Accelerate growth agenda: investment in new product development 
and emerging markets
 Monitoring of customer and supplier ﬁnancial security
 Cost base reduction initiatives
 Regular updating of contingency plans
 Effective cash management
 Allocation of resource to more resilient customers, markets and 
geographies and focus on global growth trends (climate change, 
resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population)
EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS RISK
Economic 
and market 
environment
The Group’s worldwide operations and expansion in emerging 
markets expose it to different legal and regulatory requirements 
and standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates 
including those for ﬁnancial reporting, taxation, environmental, 
operational, anti-corruption, fraud and competition matters.  
The Group is also exposed to the potential for litigation from 
third parties which may arise in the ordinary course of business.   
The Company operates various corporate governance, 
compliance and internal control frameworks which are essential 
for the effective management of such geographically diverse 
businesses. Failures in these controls might have a material 
impact on the Group.
Legal and 
regulatory 
risks
The Group recognises that it has a duty of care to all of its 
employees and to others with whom the Group interacts through 
its products and operations. In the event of any failure in the 
Group’s health, safety and environmental procedures, there is a 
potential risk of injury or death to IMI’s employees or others; or 
environmental damage, with the consequential impact on the 
operations and the risk of regulatory action against the Group.
The Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension arrangements are exposed 
to the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of 
investments as well as inﬂation, increased longevity of members 
and statutory requirements. This may result in the cost of funding 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension arrangements becoming an increasingly 
signiﬁcant burden on the Group’s ﬁnancial resources.
  Deﬁcit reduction plans implemented where appropriate
 Liability management exercises implemented to remove risk from the 
IMI Pension Fund
 Closure of overseas deﬁned beneﬁt plans to new members and future 
accrual where permissible
 Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term view of 
liability assumptions
Pension 
funding
Health,  
safety and  
environ- 
mental
 Established systems in place under the IMI Safety First, Safety Always 
slogan, to ensure that health, safety and environmental matters are 
appropriately addressed and any such risks are minimised including 
monthly reporting to, and review at, the Executive and quarterly review 
at the IMI Board
 Increase of full-time health, safety and environmental ofﬁcers across 
the Group to ensure policies are embedded and measured
 Introduction of a new travel risk management programme providing 
appropriate advice and support to all of the Group's international 
travellers
 Regular review of Group safety performance
 Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced 
specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses 
- including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety 
audits
 Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with any employers' 
liability, workers' compensation or equivalent claims and also certain 
environmental incidents
 Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in 
The IMI Way providing a guiding set of values that exemplify how IMI 
employees should behave
 IMI Way days held in all businesses which includes face-to-face 
training for all employees
 Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key 
compliance and legal risks
 Increase in resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance
 Training of employees on The IMI Way and key risk areas such as 
competition law and anti-corruption
 Enhanced version of The IMI Way to be published in 2012
 Availability and promotion of the IMI Hotline to report concerns 
anonymously
 Internal ﬁnancial control audits by IMI Group Assurance
 Anti-bribery, corruption and fraud workshops carried out
BOARD REPORTS
34 Board reports
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The Group is exposed to risks associated with the 
commercial failure of products, projects and technologies 
such as product liability and warranty claims. The quality and 
safety of our products is of the highest importance and there 
is an associated risk if they are below standard. For product 
claims not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot 
otherwise be recovered may be material to the Group.
 Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to 
appropriate quality standards
 Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of any 
failure
 Maintenance of insurance cover for product liability claims
 Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and 
product development
 Contract management resources for both sales and purchases
RISK
Products  
and 
technology
Certain of the Group’s businesses beneﬁt from close 
commercial relationships with key customers. The loss 
of certain of these key relationships whether through 
competition, consolidation or insolvency could have a 
material impact on the Group’s results.  The Group’s top 
ten customers represent approximately 15% of total Group 
revenues. Onerous contract conditions with key customers 
could impact the Group’s ﬁnancial performance.
 Collaborative development of bespoke new products
 Development of strong relationships with new accounts to maintain 
a diverse portfolio across business sectors and geographic regions
 Monitoring of markets for advance warning of negative commercial 
developments
 Further investment in and development of Key Account 
Management and Engineering Advantage
 Increase in resources dedicated to legal contract review and 
enhanced contract sign off procedures
Key 
customers
The Group has a signiﬁcant number of contracts with 
a broad base of suppliers. In the current economic 
environment there is a risk that their access to credit or 
adverse trading conditions could lead to an inability to 
meet their contractual commitments to the Group.  In 
addition, upward price pressure from the supply chain 
could erode proﬁts. The increasing use of suppliers in low 
cost economies could introduce risks related to quality 
or responsible business practices.  All this could have a 
material impact on the Group’s results.
 Monitoring of risk and development of contingency plans to 
mitigate the impact of any supplier failure or increased prices
 Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers
 Moves to new lower cost manufacturing facilities, ongoing review 
of alternative low cost economy based suppliers and, where 
appropriate, supplier consolidation
 Training and audit programme to validate suppliers’ business 
processes, quality and standards
Supply  
chain
The Group operates in highly competitive markets. 
Signiﬁcant product innovations, technical advances or 
the intensiﬁcation of price competition could all adversely 
affect the Group’s results. The Group’s continued success 
depends upon its ability to continue to develop and 
produce new and enhanced products and services on 
a cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with 
customer demands.
IMI’s growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions. 
The execution and integration of acquisitions involves 
a number of risks, including diversion of management’s 
attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired 
business and risks associated with unanticipated events or 
liabilities. The Group may also be subject to liabilities as a 
result of past or future disposals.
A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group to recruit 
and retain high calibre managers and engineering talent may 
lead to the Group not being able to implement its business 
plans and strategy effectively and experiencing delays, or 
increased difﬁculty, in the strategic development of the Group, 
including in developing and selling its products and services.
The achievement of IMI’s strategic objectives will require a 
number of major change projects in areas of manufacturing 
realignment, information technology improvements and 
business reorganisations.  Failure to deliver successful 
major change projects in a timely manner could impact the 
Group’s ﬁnancial performance.
 Initiatives and investment in research and development targeted 
to sustain the Group’s Engineering Advantage
 Monitoring of competing markets and products, including 
adjacent technologies, to facilitate early identiﬁcation of potential 
threats and development of contingency plans
 Cost base reduction initiatives, including supplier rationalisation 
and value engineering
 Processes for managing investment in research and development 
including appropriate stage gates for reviewing progress against 
clearly-deﬁned, often customer-driven, technical and commercial 
objectives
 Rigorous due diligence process with clear ﬁnancial targets
 Formal internal approval requirements
 Appropriate business integration processes to ensure that the 
Group’s policies, values, compliance and control framework are 
adopted and embedded
 Investment in M&A skills and resources to support the  
growth strategy
 Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed
 Group-wide training and development programmes
 Increased resources in emerging markets
 Regular employee-wide surveys and action plans targeted by 
company or geography
 Upgrade of resources and talent in project management 
 Regular review of project progression by Executive
 Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action 
plans for all major change projects
Competitive 
markets
M&A  
activity
Talent 
acquisition 
and  
retention
Major  
change 
projects
Risk Appetite 
The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. The level of risk appetite varies 
according to the rewards associated with each of the above risk categories. Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and 
bolt-on acquisitions, in keeping with our objective for further strategic convergence and is lower for employee safety and compliance with regulatory and business 
ethics. The degree of risk to be accepted on an operational basis is managed through delegation of authority levels and ensuring consistency with The IMI Way.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 35 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Terry Gateley Kevin Beeston Anita Frew Bob Stack
ROBERTO QUARTA Chairman 
Age 62; non-executive; joined the IMI Board in 2011.
Roberto Quarta has signiﬁcant management experience 
spanning a broad range of manufacturing and service 
businesses with global operations.  Roberto is currently a 
partner and Chairman Europe of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, 
where he has worked since 2000.  He is Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of Rexel SA, a non-executive director  
of Foster Wheeler AG and Spie SA, and recently stepped 
down from the Board of BAE Systems plc.  Roberto is the 
head of the Nominations Committee.
TERRY GATELEY 
Age 58; non-executive; 
joined the IMI Board in 
2003.
Terry Gateley began his 
career as a Chartered 
Accountant and was in 
private practice with KPMG 
until 1999, and since 
then he has chaired eight 
private equity businesses. 
He chairs the IMI Audit 
Committee and is IMI’s 
senior independent director.
KEVIN BEESTON 
Age 49; non-executive; 
joined the IMI Board in 
2005.
Kevin Beeston is Chairman 
of Taylor Wimpey plc and 
also chairs three private 
businesses, Partnerships 
in Care Limited, Domestic 
and General Limited and 
Equiniti Group. He is also an 
Operating Partner with the 
global private equity ﬁrm 
Advent International.
ANITA FREW 
Age 54; non-executive; 
joined the IMI Board in 
2006.
Anita Frew is Chairman 
of Victrex plc, a senior 
non-executive director 
of Aberdeen Asset 
Management plc and a  
non-executive director 
of Lloyds Banking Group 
plc.  She was previously 
an executive director of 
Abbott Mead Vickers plc 
and Director of Corporate 
Development at WPP Group 
plc.
BOB STACK 
Age 61; non-executive; 
joined the IMI Board in 2008.
Bob Stack is a non-executive 
director of J Sainsbury plc 
where he is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
He is a Trustee of Earthwatch 
Europe and on the Board 
of Earthwatch International. 
Past directorships include 
executive director of Cadbury 
plc where he served for 
12 years. Bob chairs the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Roberto Quarta 
BOARD REPORTS
36 Board reports
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Douglas Hurt Roy Twite Ian Whiting Sean Toomes
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
MARTIN LAMB Chief Executive  
Age 52; joined IMI in 1986.
Martin Lamb has been Chief Executive of IMI since 2001 
having been appointed to the Board in 1996.  Martin, who 
has an engineering background, has worked for IMI  
for over 25 years and has held a number of senior 
management roles across the Group during this time.  He 
is also a non-executive director of Severn Trent Water plc.
DOUGLAS HURT 
Finance Director 
Age 55; joined IMI and the 
Board in 2006.
Douglas Hurt was previously 
with GlaxoSmithKline, 
where he held both ﬁnancial 
and operational roles 
including a number of 
US and European senior 
management positions.   
He is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered 
Accountants.  He is also a 
non-executive director of 
Tate & Lyle plc.
ROY TWITE 
Executive Director 
Age 44; joined IMI in 1988.
Roy Twite was appointed to 
the Board in February 2007.  
During his career with IMI, 
Roy has held a number of 
senior roles in all ﬁve of 
IMI’s platform businesses. 
In 2011, Roy retained 
responsibility for Fluid 
Power, whilst accepting 
the additional management 
accountability for the 
Severe Service business.  
IAN WHITING 
Executive Director 
Age 48; joined IMI in 2005. 
Ian Whiting was appointed 
to the Board in 2010.  He 
joined Control Components 
Inc in 2005 from Novar plc 
where he was President of 
Novar Systems Americas. 
Ian was previously President 
of Severe Service and is now 
responsible for leading IMI’s 
emerging markets business, 
corporate development, the 
mergers and acquisitions 
agenda and the Group 
supply chain function.
SEAN TOOMES 
Executive Director 
Age 43; joined IMI in 1985. 
Sean Toomes was 
appointed to the Board 
in 2011.  He joined IMI 
on a trainee programme 
at Watson Smith, part of 
the Fluid Power business.  
Sean is President of IMI’s 
Indoor Climate division, 
and is accountable for 
IMI’s responsible business 
portfolio of compliance, 
health, safety and 
environment, as well as the 
continuing development 
and promotion of our Key 
Account Management 
capabilities.
Martin Lamb 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 37 The directors present their report, together with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Business review
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present 
a business review in this report.  The information that fulﬁls 
the business review requirements can be found on pages 4 
to 33 and page 46, which are incorporated into this report 
by reference.  This includes a review of the development 
and performance of the business of the IMI group of 
companies (the Group), including the ﬁnancial performance 
during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2011, key 
performance indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group and our risk management processes.
Principal activities
IMI plc is a global engineering group focused on the precise 
control and movement of ﬂuids in critical applications.   
IMI plc is the holding company of the Group.  The Group’s 
businesses comprise ﬁve platforms organised into two 
principal activities: Fluid Controls, comprising Severe Service, 
Fluid Power and Indoor Climate; and Retail Dispense, 
comprising Beverage Dispense and Merchandising. The main 
subsidiary companies operating within these two principal 
activities are listed on pages 130 and 131.  The revenue,  
proﬁt and capital employed attributable to each of these 
businesses is shown in note 2 on pages 85 to 87.
Results and dividend
The Group consolidated income statement is shown  
on page 70.  Segmental operating proﬁt amounted to 
£374.1m (2010: £319.7m) and proﬁt before taxation 
amounted to £301.4m (2010: £306.1m). 
The directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 19.0p per 
share (2010: 17.0p per share) on the ordinary share capital 
payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 21 May 2012 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
13 April 2012.  Together with the interim dividend of 11.0p 
per share paid on 14 October 2011, this ﬁnal dividend will 
bring the total distribution for the year to 30.0p per share 
(2010: 26.0p per share).
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development in the year  
was £43.2m (2010: £41.9m), of this amount £4.4m  
(2010: £5.0m) has been capitalised.
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds increased from £525.7m at the end of 
2010 to £564.8m at 31 December 2011.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2011, the Company’s share capital 
comprised a single class of share capital which is divided 
into ordinary shares of 25p each. Details of the share 
capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the 
ﬁnancial statements on pages 119 and 120. The ordinary 
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt 
(ADR) programme for which Citibank, N.A. acts as 
depositary.  The ADRs are traded on the US over-the-
counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR 
represents two ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2011, 3,831,120 shares are held in an 
employee trust for use in relation to certain executive 
incentive plans representing 1.2% of the issued share 
capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The voting 
rights attached to shares held in the employee trust were 
not exercised during the year.
During the year, 310,310 new ordinary shares were issued 
under employee share schemes: 150,563 under the all 
employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn 
plans and 159,747 under executive share plans. Shares 
acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank 
equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s articles of 
association, copies of which can be obtained from 
Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company 
Secretary.  Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be 
issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company 
may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such 
resolution or so far as it does not make speciﬁc provision) 
as the Board may decide.  
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 
Company’s report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote at 
general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to 
exercise their rights.  Holders of ordinary shares may receive 
a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the 
Company.  Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of 
ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the 
Company or propose resolutions at annual general meetings. 
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are 
suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to receive 
dividends or other distributions of assets.
BOARD REPORTS
38 Board reports
DIRECTORS’ REPORT There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company other than:
 certain restrictions as may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider 
trading laws); and

pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby 
the directors and certain employees of the Company 
require approval to deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares or on voting rights.  None of the ordinary 
shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the 
Company.  The only restrictions on voting rights are those 
that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as 
described above.  Electronic and paper proxy appointments 
and voting instructions must be received by the Company’s 
registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, 
or any adjournment thereof.
Own shares acquired by the Company
At the annual general meeting of the Company held on  
6 May 2011 authority was given for the Company to 
purchase up to 48,116,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p 
each. The Company did not use this authority to make any 
purchases of its own shares during the period. At the next 
annual general meeting of the Company, shareholders will 
be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are 
contained in the separate circular.
As at 31 December 2011, 19,124,700 ordinary shares 
(nominal value £4,781,175) were held in treasury 
representing 6% of the issued share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) at that time.
Substantial shareholdings
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the 
FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a 
regulatory information service.  As at 31 December 2011, 
the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital 
of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, had been notiﬁed to the Company:
BlackRock, Inc. 10.81%
Standard Life Investments Limited  9.02%
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 4.99%
AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86%
Newton Investment Management Limited  3.96%
Legal and General Group plc  3.86%
During the period from 31 December 2011 to 1 March 2012 
the Company was notiﬁed that the interests of BlackRock, 
Inc. had changed to 9.97%, Standard Life Investments 
Limited had changed to 8.92% and Ameriprise Financial, 
Inc. had changed to 5.02%. 
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with 
signiﬁcant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other 
than those noted above.
Statement on corporate governance
The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference.
Employment policies
The Group continues to support employee involvement at 
all levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each 
of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group 
and individual business developments and to make its 
employees aware of the ﬁnancial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of the business in which they 
work, using their own consultation and communication 
methods.  A European Works Council has been in 
operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to 
exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.  
At the date of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of 
the  European Works Council comprising 13 employee 
representatives nominated from among employees from 
each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, 
with the balance being Company appointees.  The Group’s 
ﬁnancial results and important initiatives such as health 
and safety, training and development, and employee 
engagement are communicated through a number of 
mechanisms including the Works Council, newsletters and 
intranets for the individual businesses and the Company’s 
website and ‘town hall’ meetings.
Share schemes are a long established and successful part 
of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting 
employee share ownership.  Full details of employee share 
schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
48 to 67 and in note 20 to the ﬁnancial statements on 
pages 115 to 118.
A number of people development initiatives are co-
ordinated across the Group, which are based on the 
Company’s values of excellence, innovation and integrity. 
These initiatives include succession and development 
planning, leadership development programmes, the IMI 
graduate programme and the embedding of the 
‘Leadership Blueprint’, our competency model, in 
recruitment and selection, performance management 
processes, and training programmes. These initiatives and 
the Company’s approach to employee investment and 
talent development are explained on page 33.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 39 Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is 
to comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which 
we operate and to actively promote our diversity goal  
to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic 
priorities and to reﬂect the diverse nature of our global 
business.  We ensure that our talent pipelines are  
diverse, for example our Global Graduate Programme 
includes people from more than 20 countries, with, in 
recent years, over 40% of our graduate intake being 
female.  At all levels we are focused on increasing our 
diversity as reﬂected in the appointment of our new 
Chairman, Roberto Quarta and our long-standing female 
non-executive director, Anita Frew. When recruiting we 
strive to ensure that our shortlists of candidates are diverse 
and that our people are trained to avoid bias in the process 
in order to ensure fair selection criteria. Our training 
programmes for senior and middle management (the IMI 
Academy, Management Fundamentals and the IMI Leaders 
Boot Camp) include selection and interview training.  
One way we measure progress is through the Employee 
Engagement Survey. The 2011 survey conﬁrmed that over 
80% of our employees feel highly valued and respected  
for the diversity they bring to the business and the 
opportunities they have within our meritocracy.
Health, safety and the environment
It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working 
conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with 
regard to the environment. Information on our key 
performance indicators in this area is given on pages 15 
and 30 and further information is available on page 29  
and on our website www.imiplc.com.
Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors
Operating units are responsible for setting terms of payment 
when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, 
ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the terms of 
payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the supplier 
performing to its obligations. IMI plc is a holding company 
and has no trade creditors.
Donations
£214,000 was given during 2011 (2010: £180,000) for 
charitable purposes. The Group supports a range of 
selected national charities and smaller charitable 
organisations operating in communities where the Group 
has a presence. Our approach to charitable and other 
donations is explained on pages 32 and 33. No political 
donations were made during the year. 
Directors
The membership of the Board and biographical details of 
the directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference.  Roberto Quarta 
was appointed to the Board initially as a non-executive 
director with effect from 1 June 2011, before taking over as 
Chairman from Norman Askew who retired from the Board 
on 31 October 2011. Sean Toomes was also appointed to 
the Board as an executive director on 1 June 2011. 
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors 
are set out in the Company’s articles of association.  
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for 
election at the next annual general meeting following their 
appointment and Roberto Quarta and Sean Toomes  will 
seek election having been appointed to the Board during 
the year.  In addition, the Company’s articles of association 
require each director to stand for re-election at least once 
every three years.  However, in accordance with the new 
provision contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for 
re-election at the next annual general meeting and are 
recommended for re-election.  Changes to the articles of 
association must be approved by a special resolution of 
the shareholders (75% majority required) in accordance 
with the legislation in force at the time.
The Company maintains directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability 
insurance and all directors of the Company beneﬁt from 
qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in place 
during the ﬁnancial year.  At the date of this Annual Report 
there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in 
respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory 
proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a 
director, where not covered by insurance and subject always 
to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ powers
The powers of the directors are determined by UK 
legislation and the articles of association of the Company 
in force from time to time.  The directors have been 
authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make 
market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares. 
These powers are exercised under the authority of 
resolutions of the Company passed at its annual general 
meeting.  Further details of authorities the Company is 
seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its 
ordinary shares are set out in the separate circular 
containing the notice of the annual general meeting.
BOARD REPORTS
40 Board reports
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Directors’ interests
The interests of the persons (including the interests of  
any connected persons) who were directors at the end of 
the year, in the share capital of the Company, and their 
interests under share option and incentive schemes, are 
shown on pages 64 to 65 and on page 67.
Essential contracts and change of control
The Group does not have any single contract or other 
arrangement which is essential to its business taken  
as a whole. 
The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of 
agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or 
terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the 
Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial 
contracts and employee share plans. Other than as 
referred to in the next paragraph, none of these is 
considered by the Company to be signiﬁcant in terms  
of its likely impact on the Group as a whole.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the 
Group’s main funding agreements allow the lenders to 
renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all 
outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities. In the 
current economic climate this could have a signiﬁcant 
effect on the liquidity of the business.
The Company does not have agreements with any director 
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of 
ofﬁce or employment speciﬁcally resulting from a takeover, 
although provisions of the Company’s share schemes 
include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors 
and employees under such schemes to vest in those 
circumstances.
Going concern
A statement in relation to the adoption of the going 
concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements 
appears on page 27 and is incorporated into this report  
by reference.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each director conﬁrms that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director has 
taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a 
director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Cautionary statements
The business review and other content of this Annual 
Report have been prepared for and only for the members 
of the Company as a body and no other persons.   
Neither the Company nor its directors or ofﬁcers accept or 
assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report 
beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of 
this Annual Report pursuant to and for the purposes 
required by UK legislation.
Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking 
statements about the Group, including, for example, 
statements relating to: future demand and markets for the 
Group’s products and services, research and development 
relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity 
and capital resources and implementation of restructuring 
plans and efﬁciencies. Any forward-looking statements are 
by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by such statements depending on a 
variety of factors, including, for example, those described in 
this Annual Report under the heading ‘Principal risks and 
uncertainties’. IMI undertakes no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statements whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton 
Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, 
Birmingham on Friday 4 May 2012, commencing at noon. 
Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a 
separate circular.
Auditor
Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as 
auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to 
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next 
annual general meeting.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea
Company Secretary
1 March 2012
IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 41 I became Chairman in November 2011, following the retirement of Norman Askew.  As Chairman, I intend to play a leading 
role in shaping the governance agenda and taking the Company forward.
First, I would like to pay tribute to Norman Askew for his excellent stewardship of the Company during his six years as 
Chairman.  His legacy includes an open and engaged Board working within a well developed corporate governance 
structure, all of which together provide ﬁrm foundations to build on for the future.
To help me assess and ﬁnd ways to improve Board effectiveness, I arranged workshops with the non-executive directors 
and with the executives, both of which were facilitated by an external consultant.  I will be using this input to develop 
some changes in practice aimed at enhancing the role of the Board.  A full, externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise 
will be conducted later in the year.
On the non-executive side of the Board, we have a strong team of four independent directors with varied backgrounds 
and experience. They have all been IMI directors for several years and all are familiar with the businesses and enjoy 
opportunities for contact with the wider management group at formal Board meetings, management conferences and 
visits to IMI facilities. In 2011 the non-executives and I have each visited a number of facilities around the Group.  
In January 2012 most of the non-executive team again joined the top senior managers at IMI’s annual senior management 
conference, which was held in Milan and combined with visits to IMI operations in Italy.
I am keen to engage with shareholders and have already met with a number of larger institutional investors since my 
appointment in the autumn.  I look forward to meeting many more shareholders at the forthcoming annual general 
meeting.
Roberto Quarta
Chairman
1 March 2012
BOARD REPORTS
42 Board reports
CHAIRMAN’S GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION Set out below is the Board’s formal report on corporate governance.
Compliance Statement
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and conﬁrms that throughout the year ended 31 
December 2011 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Board’s report on corporate 
governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67. The Board is able to report compliance with the Code 
throughout 2011, subject to the need to ﬁll one vacancy for a non-executive director which arose in November 2011.
The Board
At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: the Chairman; Chief Executive; four independent non-executive 
directors; the Finance Director and three operational executive directors. Changes in the composition of the Board during 
the year are noted below and in the Directors’ Report.  In order to balance the mix of non-executive and executive 
directors, at least one additional non-executive director is to be appointed and a search is underway.
The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement. All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Code and are regarded 
by the Board as independent of the Group’s executive management. The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also regarded 
as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board. Terry Gateley is the senior independent director. The non-
executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior 
management in commerce and industry. Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 36 and 37.
In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at annual general meetings.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management 
performance. In December 2010, the Board adopted a Corporate Governance Framework which deﬁnes Board roles and 
includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive 
management. Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, 
signiﬁcant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group. The Board reviews budgets, 
forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis. Quarterly meetings of the Board consider 
detailed ﬁnancial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group, as well as regularly 
tracking changes in risk assessment and controls. Senior executives from around the Group are regularly invited by the 
Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its committees 
and can be viewed on the Company website.  These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the 
Board of potential conﬂicts of interest.  These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Board’s 
view that they operated effectively during the year under review.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reﬂected in the written 
Corporate Governance Framework approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership 
and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the 
executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority 
delegated by the Board. 
The ﬁve executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb; Finance Director, Douglas Hurt; and three operational 
executives, Sean Toomes, Roy Twite and Ian Whiting. Changes in executive responsibilities were announced effective 
from 1 September 2011.  Roy Twite, in addition to continuing in his role as President of Fluid Power, assumed 
responsibility for the Severe Service businesses.  Ian Whiting, has responsibilities for corporate development, including 
M&A and developing IMI’s interests in the emerging markets, and for the Group procurement function. Sean Toomes runs 
the Indoor Climate business and has functional responsibility for compliance, environmental, health and safety matters.
Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is 
regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings and events like 
the annual management conference. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an 
appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufﬁciently in advance of meetings to allow proper 
consideration. He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in 
accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for  
any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors have access to the 
Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to 
operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. All members of the Board were in attendance 
at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Kevin Beeston, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite missed one special 
purpose meeting but none of them missed a quarterly or strategy meeting.
BOARD REPORTS
THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 43 The Board (continued)
The non-executive directors met individually and as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year. 
The senior independent director, Terry Gateley, met with the other non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, 
inter alia, to review the Chairman’s performance as contemplated by the Combined Code.
Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation
A formal induction process for new directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility of  
the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.   
A revised, standard induction programme for new directors has been set by the Chairman following his own experience of 
joining the Board in 2011.  During and after induction directors are expected to visit business units around the Group  
and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.  Appropriate coaching and access to training and other 
continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training 
during the year at Board meetings.
In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process 
at least once every three years starting from 2012.  An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was completed 
in 2011, the results of which the Chairman reported to the Board. This process included questionnaires and appropriate 
face to face discussions including individual meetings between the Chairman and the non-executive directors.   
In addition, the other directors met with the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman.  
The Board received the ﬁndings of the evaluation in March 2011 and the directors conﬁrmed that the Board is fulﬁlling  
its responsibilities appropriately.  The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that 
each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.  The contribution and performance of the directors, all of whom are 
standing for election or re-election at the 2012 annual general meeting, is further commented on in the notice of the 
annual general meeting.
Following his appointment as Chairman in November 2011, Roberto Quarta held Board effectiveness workshops with an 
external facilitator as mentioned in the introduction on page 42. 
Standing committees of the Board
The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations 
Committee and the Executive Committee.  Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which 
clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.  The full terms of reference of these committees 
were updated in December 2010 and are part of the Corporate Governance Framework which appears on the Company 
website.  The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective Chairman, at quarterly or 
more frequent intervals as appropriate.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley.  All of the other independent non-executive directors were also 
members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.  Terry Gateley is a qualiﬁed Chartered Accountant and has 
signiﬁcant recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.  The committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the ﬁnancial 
statements and reports that are prepared by executive management.  The committee received reports from the external 
auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.  The committee’s work included reviewing the ﬁnancial 
statements, accounting policies, signiﬁcant issues of judgement and, as described below under the section headed 
Internal Control starting on page 47, it looked at the effectiveness of internal ﬁnancial controls.  The committee approved 
the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme.  The committee takes a risk 
based approach to audit and other assurance activity.
The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.  In assessing auditor independence 
the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to conﬁrm that its ethics 
and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales.  The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and requires 
approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000 and does not 
allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of 
management or auditing its own work.  The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal 
audit function, known as the ‘IMI Group Assurance Department’, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle-blowing 
policy and the independent hotline (www.imihotline.com).  During the year the committee received an independent report 
on the effectiveness of the internal assurance function and will be monitoring progress of the implementation of agreed 
recommendations.
The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efﬁciency of the external auditor and 
believes the work has been satisfactory.  The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to  
reappoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting. Ernst & Young was ﬁrst 
appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process.  The term of appointment is annual and there are no 
contractual restrictions on the committee’s choice of auditor. 
BOARD REPORTS
44 Board reports
THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.  Minutes and papers are normally 
circulated to all members of the Board.  The committee normally calls upon the Chairman, all of the executive directors, 
the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend meetings but holds at least part of several 
meetings each year alone with the auditor and Group Assurance Director.  The committee reviewed its own performance 
and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack and he, Kevin Beeston, Anita Frew and Terry Gateley were all 
members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.  Norman Askew was a member until his retirement on  
31 October 2011 and Roberto Quarta joined the committee on 1 June 2011. The committee’s main responsibilities are  
to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including 
new appointments and to set the Chairman’s remuneration.  As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is 
responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other beneﬁts. 
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to pay for 
employees across the Group when determining executive remuneration.  The committee met on six occasions during the 
year with all members in attendance.  External consultants are engaged by the committee to provide independent advice 
and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required. 
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing summary report on its 
work.  More details in respect of remuneration matters are given in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Roberto Quarta  who chairs the committee, all of the independent 
non-executive directors and the Chief Executive. Norman Askew was committee chairman until he retired on 31 October 
2011 and was succeeded by Roberto Quarta, who joined the committee on 1 June 2011.  During the year the committee 
reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its 
committees.  External consultants are engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executives. 
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.  Each non-executive 
director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the 
committee.  The committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufﬁcient.  The committee also 
reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by 
the Board, concerning the appointment of Sean Toomes as an executive director.  The committee met on six occasions 
during the year with all members in attendance.  During the year the committee spent a substantial part of its time on 
executive talent development and succession planning.  The senior independent non-executive director, Terry Gateley,  
led the search for the new Company Chairman along with the other members of the committee, excluding the outgoing 
Chairman, and external search consultants were engaged for this purpose.  
In response to Lord Davies’ report on Boardroom Diversity, the Company issued a policy statement, approved by the 
committee and the Board, which appears on the corporate website.  Our policy is to recruit the very best people to 
execute our strategic priorities and to reﬂect the diverse nature of the global footprint of our businesses, reﬂecting the 
location of our customers and markets.  We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and  
Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution 
capabilities.  We will seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting 
externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company.  At Board level, there are three nationalities, one of 
four non-executives is female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors and 
the Group Human Resources Director.  The secretary to the committee is the Company Secretary. Senior executives  
and line managers from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.   
It normally meets monthly and more often as may be required and all members attended at least ten of the twelve 
meetings in the year, several of which were held over two days.  The committee is the senior management body and  
as part of its broad remit it will monitor performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider business 
management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by 
the Board. It also acts as the risk committee of the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance 
and legal and corporate affairs. Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.  The committee reviewed its own 
performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Investor relations
The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with 
shareholders, particularly private investors.  The 2011 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended 
by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.  The Chairman encouraged debate 
and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 45 Investor relations (continued)
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2011 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting 
was invited to adopt and approve the ﬁnancial statements and the Directors’ Report for 2010. A separate resolution for the 
approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting. Notice of the 2011 annual general meeting was issued 
more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together 
with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Company’s website.  The Board values 
its good relations with shareholders and resolutions proposed at the 2011 annual general meeting received great support.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and 
August, respectively, as well as, interim management statements. The Company website includes recordings of certain 
key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other 
corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses. The Company has arranged a dealing service 
for the convenience of shareholders with Equiniti (details are shown on page 134). A sponsored Level 1 American 
Depositary Receipt programme was established on 16 February 2011 for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary (details 
on page 134).
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and 
to assist them in the stewardship of their investments. Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive 
directors meet regularly with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility 
at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly. They are supported by the Investor 
Relations Director, Will Shaw.
In addition, ﬁnancial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Company’s 
brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors’ views. The Chairman, senior independent 
director and other non-executives do meet with major shareholders upon request, and will do so if any of them considers 
it appropriate:  informal meetings of this type did take place in 2011 and there were also consultations with the larger 
shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters. 
Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ 
appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 38 to 41.
Risk management processes
The Board has assigned speciﬁc responsibility to the Executive Committee to act as the risk committee of the Board.  
This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework. 
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk 
management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight.
The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the annual forecasting and business planning requirements of 
the Group and monitoring and updates are carried out between annual reviews.  Each operating unit and corporate 
function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk assessment and reporting.  The President of 
each business division has appointed a Risk Champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk assessment 
process in their business.  The businesses’ risk reports, including mitigation action plans for signiﬁcant risks, are reviewed 
by the most senior executive within the relevant business and then considered by the Group Assurance Director who puts 
regular reports to the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a full annual risk review and at least two updates each 
year to the Board.  The other corporate functions go through a similar process and their input is reﬂected in these reports. 
The Chairman and Terry Gateley, the senior independent non-executive and chair of the Audit Committee, attended the 
Executive Committee’s annual risk review meeting.  The divisional business Presidents present their strategic risks to the 
Board as part of the annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the 
Company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks 
involved in speciﬁc investment decisions including acquisitions. 
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal control in relation to ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. 
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the ﬁnancial aspects of internal control.  The 
Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the 
IMI Group Assurance Department.  The Remuneration Committee conducted a review of incentive arrangements with 
reference to their alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking.
Through these processes signiﬁcant risks are identiﬁed, assessed and ranked according to their probability and 
materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to 
mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.  Risk appetite across the range of strategic objectives of the Group was also 
reviewed by the Board.  Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 34 to 35.
Financial reporting processes
The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by ﬁnance teams throughout the Group 
are important in ensuring that the Group’s accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately 
reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.  The use of a standard reporting package by  
BOARD REPORTS
46 Board reports
THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Internal control
The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal control and conﬁrms that the system of 
internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated in 2005 by the Financial 
Reporting Council (the ‘Turnbull Guidance’).
In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly deﬁned in writing those matters which are reserved to 
it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief 
Executive and the Executive Committee.  The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting 
and control disciplines.  Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in 
running day-to-day trading activities.  They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities 
regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to 
regular senior management reviews of performance.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and 
consolidated for review by the Board. Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, 
reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.  Minimum standards for 
accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.  Certiﬁed 
quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, conﬁrming compliance with Group ﬁnancial reporting 
requirements.  There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling 
programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.  These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are 
carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.  Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group 
ﬁnance personnel.  These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, 
with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, 
to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and 
controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human 
resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board, and to the Audit 
Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk proﬁle of 
operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identiﬁed weakness in the internal control system. 
More information in relation to risk is given above under the heading Risk management processes.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all signiﬁcant aspects of internal 
control for the year 2011 and up to the date of this Annual Report.  The Board believes that the Group’s system of internal 
control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
Business model 
A description of how the Group preserves and generates value and the strategy for delivering its long-term objectives is 
given in the Business Overview section on pages 4 to 5 and 10 to 15. 
Responsible business
A major ethics and compliance programme, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted across the Group and is led by the 
Group Compliance Manager, Jo Morgan.  Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at every 
regular meeting of the Board and the Executive Committee.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and The IMI Way Code of 
Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the 
Group.  At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group chaired by Sean Toomes 
and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identiﬁed, monitored and addressed through the Group’s general 
business processes and risk management framework.
The Company satisﬁes the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of  
the FTSE4Good Index.  In addition, IMI has membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and is a signatory to the 
UN Global Compact.  More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the 
Company website.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea
Company Secretary
1 March 2012
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 47 1.  Overview
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
In its 2011 annual review the Remuneration Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy and structure 
remain appropriate and provide strong alignment with the creation of shareholder value and an appropriate balance 
between long-term and short-term reward. The reward programme is compatible with the Company’s approach to risk, 
and reinforces the Company’s values and behaviours deﬁned in The IMI Way.  The committee is encouraged by the 
excellent results achieved by the business and regards performance related pay as a critical element of remuneration and 
a driver of success.
Against a global backdrop of political, economic and market instability, IMI management has achieved a record segmental 
operating performance and adjusted earnings per share growth and upper quartile relative shareholder returns.
Achievements in 2011
    Year on year
  2011 growth %
Segmental revenue  £2,135m 5%*
Segmental operating proﬁt  £374.1m 9%*
Segmental margin  17.5% n/a
Cash conversion  88% n/a
EVA  £200.6m 22%
Adjusted EPS  81.5p 23%
*on an organic basis  
The committee is conﬁdent that the rewards for this success are appropriate and well-deserved. A review of remuneration 
decisions and proposals is set out below:
 Base salaries: modest increases of up to 2.8% in executive salaries have been made for 2012 taking into account  
in particular the ﬁnancial performance of the businesses, economic uncertainties in some of our markets, external 
benchmarking and internal relativities within the wider senior management team and general employee population.
 Annual Incentive Plan: 2011 Annual Incentive Plan weighted as 85% on ﬁnancial performance and 15% on a range of 
non-ﬁnancial measures including personal objectives. The 2012 bonus metrics are conﬁrmed as proﬁt before tax and 
exceptional items, Group adjusted EPS, organic revenue growth percentage, cash conversion percentage and some 
non-ﬁnancial measures, based on health and safety, ethics and compliance and personal objectives.  

Risk review: a remuneration strategy and structure risk review was carried out in 2011 with the Independent Advisor to 
the committee.  This review will continue on an annual basis to ensure alignment with strategy and performance drivers.
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
16.0
18.0
20.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Segmental operating margin
7.7%
9.2%
9.8%
10.5%
12.2%
12.7%
13.0%
14.0%
13.1%
16.7%
17.5%
%
BOARD REPORTS
48 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT  New all-employee global share plans: Renewal of AESOP: Renewal of the IMI Share Incentive Plan: 2.  The Remuneration Committee
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
2.1  Remuneration Committee’s composition
 2.2  Remuneration Committee’s role
 2.3  Advice received by the Remuneration Committee
 2.4  Remuneration advisor tender process
 2.5  Chairman’s remuneration 
 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 49 2.6  Non-executive directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined, after reference to external benchmarks, by the Chairman 
and the executive directors.
The policy on non-executive remuneration is to pay an appropriate level on a comparative basis for their time and work on 
the Board and its committees. They do not participate in any bonus or employee share schemes of the Company and no 
part of their remuneration is conditional upon the performance of the Company. The remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is shown in the table on page 63. Annual remuneration in 2011 was as follows:
 Non-executive director’s fee £52,500.
 Additional fee for chairing a committee £10,000.
 Additional fee for the senior non-executive director £5,000.
 Non-executive director’s fees are reviewed annually but were not increased in 2012.
2.7  Terms of appointment of the Chairman and the non-executive directors
Letters of appointment set out the key duties and expectations for the non-executive Chairman and the independent 
non-executive directors. They include appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction and familiarisation with  
the businesses and wider senior management team and require approval for other directorships and potential conﬂicts  
of interest.
The dates and unexpired terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors, which are available for 
inspection at the Annual General Meeting and at the Company’s registered ofﬁce, are as follows:
2.  The Remuneration Committee (continued)
  Date of letter Unexpired term  Date of appointment 
  of appointment at 01.01.12  as a director 
K S Beeston 07.01.12 1 year 2 months   08.03.05
A M Frew 07.01.12  1 year 2 months 02.03.06
T M Gateley 01.09.11 1 year 5 months 01.11.03
R Quarta 01.09.11 2 years 5 months 01.06.11
R J Stack 01.09.11 2 years 5 months 13.06.08
The normal period for initial appointment and ﬁrst renewal is three years. After six years, renewal is usually considered on 
an annual basis and this currently applies to Kevin Beeston. However, in 2011 Terry Gateley’s term was extended until the 
Annual General Meeting in 2013, to ensure he continues to be available as senior independent director to support the  
new Chairman.  Appointments are made under a letter of agreement subject to removal under the Company’s articles of 
association, and all directors will be submitting themselves for annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 
accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code. There are no provisions for the Company to give notice or  
pay compensation in relation to the early termination of the appointment of the Chairman or any non-executive director. 
There is a provision in the appointment letters to the effect that a non-executive director is normally expected to give at 
least one month’s prior notice of termination to the Company and, in the case of the Chairman, three months’ notice.
3.0  Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
3.1  Statement of policy
The Company aims to ensure that remuneration generally, and incentives in particular, provide strong alignment between 
individual performance, business performance and shareholder interests. The remuneration policy also recognises that the 
Company operates in global and highly competitive markets with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK.
The policy is to provide competitive remuneration packages to attract, motivate, reward and retain executives of the 
calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a signiﬁcant element of the remuneration 
package to performance.  During 2011 the committee reviewed the structure and metrics of the incentive arrangements 
for the executive directors from a risk perspective and concluded that they were aligned with appropriate risk-taking and 
shareholders’ interests.
BOARD REPORTS
50 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee considers it to be important to maintain the ﬂexibility to respond to individual 
circumstances. However, its normal approach has been to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges, 
combined with realistic potential for above-market total compensation if performance is outstanding.
In setting the remuneration of each executive director, the Remuneration Committee takes into account their role and 
responsibilities, skills and individual performance and makes reference to market rates as evidenced by published studies 
and comparisons with international UK-based groups of a similar size and complexity. In connection with this the 
committee considered benchmarking data prepared by New Bridge Street. The committee uses such data with caution in 
view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels. 
The Remuneration Committee also has received information about and had regard to pay and conditions of employees 
throughout the Group. The committee has the discretion to take account of environmental, social and corporate 
governance matters when setting the remuneration of the executive directors.
The policy of the committee is to set performance conditions for incentives which are both stretching but also reasonably 
attainable in the environment in which the Company is then operating.
3.2  Key elements of executive packages
The key elements of the executive packages and their purposes are set out in the table below.
Elements of executive packages Purpose
Base salary Recognise value of the role and the individual.
Annual incentive bonus Performance-based reward for annual performance across  
 a range of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial measures.
Share Matching Plan Drive share ownership and co-investment of bonus into  
 shares to increase alignment with shareholders’ interests.
Performance Share Plan Encourage and reward long-term performance and   
 shareholder value.
Pension provision or allowance Allowance or long-term savings arrangement.
Beneﬁt in kind and allowances Medical, company car and fuel or allowances, relocation  
 allowances and an allowance for tax advice.
3.3  Base salary
Salary reviews for the executive directors are conducted annually with increases, if any, normally effective from 1 January. 
Salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the executive’s role, responsibilities and individual 
performance and pay conditions elsewhere in the Company and external benchmark data (looking at UK listed companies 
of similar size, complexity and international presence). The normal policy is to pay salaries within appropriate market 
competitive ranges for each role.
The salaries for the 2011 ﬁnancial year were reviewed in December 2010 and the committee decided that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue the freeze adopted since the 2008 review. Increases for January 2012 were agreed in December 
2011 to reﬂect the outstanding ﬁnancial performance of the Group, uncertain economic conditions, comparative market 
data and the need to balance internal relativities.  The committee made the following changes to take effect from  
1 January 2012 as shown in Table A on page 52. In making these decisions the committee took account of the salary 
increases that have been and will be awarded to employees across all levels and in all parts of the IMI Group.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 51 Table A: Executive Remuneration 2011 and 2012
3.3 Base salary (continued)
3.  Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued) 
Element of 
Remuneration
How this supports the 
strategy
Name/Position Level Performance measures 
and vesting schedule
Changes for 2012
31/12/11 1/1/12
Base Salary Takes account in 
particular the ﬁnancial 
performance of the 
business, economic 
uncertainties and 
internal relativities 
within the wider senior 
management  team, 
as well as the 
individual performance 
and personal 
contribution to 
delivering the Group 
strategy.
Chief Executive 
M J Lamb
£720,000 £740,000  Benchmarked against 
companies of a 
similar size and 
complexity and other 
companies in the 
same industry sector.
  Reviewed annually 
from 1 January.
  Base salary increased by 
2.8% from 1 January 2012
Finance Director 
D M Hurt
£395,000 £405,000  Base salary increased by 
2.5% from 1 January 2012
Executive Director      
S Toomes
£330,000 £330,000  Appointed to new position 
on 1 June 2011
Executive Director    
R M Twite
£395,000 £405,000  Base salary increased by 
2.5% from 1 January 2012
Executive Director       
I W Whiting
£345,000 £345,000  Appointed to new position 
on 1 September 2010
Annual Incentive 
Bonus
Drives and rewards 
performance against 
annual ﬁnancial, 
strategic and 
operational goals 
which are consistent 
with the medium to 
long term strategic 
needs of the business 
also taking into 
account individual 
behaviour and 
contribution.
Chief Executive      Maximum of 150%  
of salary (on target 
performance results in a 
payment of 50% of the 
maximum bonus).
  2011 bonus metrics 
were based on 85% 
ﬁnancial performance 
and 15% on a range 
of non-ﬁnancial 
measures including 
personal objectives.
  55% Proﬁt before tax 
and exceptionals, 
15% Return on 
Sales, 15% Cash 
Conversion, 5% IMI 
Way, 5% Health & 
Safety and 5% 
Personal Objectives.
  Bonus award 
payments subject to 
‘Share Ownership 
Guidelines’ (see 
Section 3.6 for 
explanation).
  No change in the maximum 
award for 2012.
  For 2012 the performance 
measures will encourage 
focus on organic growth 
(15%), in place of RoS 
measure which is now an 
embedded discipline. In 
addition an element of  
IMI Group bonus will be 
based on EPS (15%).  
Non-ﬁnancial metrics will 
increase from 15% to 
20%.
Finance Director    Maximum of 125%  
of salary (on target 
performance results in a 
payment of 50% of the 
maximum bonus).
Executive Directors Maximum of 115%  
of salary (on target 
performance results in a 
payment of 50% of the 
maximum bonus).
Share Ownership 
Guidelines (SOG)
Incentivise long term 
value creation and 
alignment with 
shareholder interests.
All Executives Shareholding guidelines 
125% of salary for all 
Executive Directors.
  All executives met 
the guidelines at the 
year end.
  No change to the 
shareholding guidelines for 
Executives for 2012.
Share Matching 
Plan (SMP)
Aligns the interest of 
executives and 
shareholders through 
the delivery of awards 
in shares and provides 
a retention tool for  
key executives as 
matching awards and 
performance share 
awards are forfeitable 
on cessation of 
employment.
Chief Executive      Investment to maximum 
100% of annual incentive 
opportunity. Matching 
awards for voluntarily 
invested shares is 200% 
and lower level of match 
is 125%.
 100% EVA
  3-year vesting period 
subject to continued 
employment and 
achievement of 
performance 
conditions.
  No proposed changes for 
2012 to maximum 
investment levels or level 
of Company matching.
  EVA will be retained for 
100% of the 2012-14 
award.
Finance Director    Investment to maximum 
100% of annual incentive 
opportunity. Matching 
awards for voluntarily 
invested shares is 200% 
and lower level of match 
is 100%.
Executive Directors
Performance Share 
Plan (PSP)
All Executives The PSP allows for 
share-based awards 
worth up to the 
maximum of 100% of 
annual salary.
  50% Adjusted EPS 
CAGR %
  25% TSR (39 
member international 
peer group)
  25% Return on 
Operating Capital 
Employed (RoOCE) 3 
year average.
  3-year vesting period 
subject to continued 
employment and 
performance 
conditions.
Given the focus on organic 
revenue growth, and the 
acceptance that strong 
margin discipline is ﬁrmly 
embedded, in 2012 there will 
be the following changes to 
the performance measures:
  25% RoOCE will be 
replaced with 25% Organic 
revenue growth CAGR %.
  There are no further 
changes to the 2012 
performance conditions.
BOARD REPORTS
52 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 3.5  Annual Incentive Bonus
Executive directors participate in an Annual Incentive Bonus (see Table B on page 54).  The Annual Incentive Bonus 
supports the business strategy by driving and rewarding performance against annual ﬁnancial, strategic and operational 
goals which are consistent with the medium to long term strategic needs of the business also taking into account 
individual behaviour and contribution.
The 2011 Annual Incentive Bonus metrics were weighted as follows: 85% on ﬁnancial performance and 15% on a range 
of non-ﬁnancial measures including personal objectives.  Achievement of the 2011 Annual Incentive Bonus can be seen in 
Table B on page 54.  The structure for the 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus will remain similar to 2011, which has now been in 
place for several years. However, now that Return on Sales is an embedded discipline and to encourage focus on organic 
growth, the Return on Sales metric has been replaced with an Organic Revenue Growth metric.  A further additional 
feature for 2012 is the inclusion of Group adjusted EPS within the ﬁnancial measures. EPS was chosen as an appropriate 
measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings.  The 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus will be weighted 
as follows; 80% on ﬁnancial performance and 20% on a range of non-ﬁnancial measures including personal objectives.
Chief Executive’s target remuneration
3.4  Chief Executive’s remuneration 
The following charts show the ﬁxed and performance-related elements of the Chief Executive’s remuneration at both 
target and maximum based on the proposed 2012 incentive arrangements (assuming maximum personal investment  
in the Share Matching Plan and excluding the impact of changes in share price).  This supports the committee’s policy  
that a signiﬁcant proportion of remuneration should be performance-related and that the Company rewards Executives  
for investing in and retaining shares within IMI.  The mix of remuneration for the other executive directors is broadly 
comparable, although their maximum bonus potentials are lower. 
The Remuneration Committee considers the quantum of the Chief Executive’s remuneration to be appropriate and 
commensurate with the growing performance of the Company, changes to the pay and conditions of employees 
throughout the Group and strong alignment with the creation of shareholder value.
25% Fixed pay 
(salary)
75% Variable pay 
(annual incentive bonus 
and long-term incentive 
awards)
Chief Executive’s maximum remuneration
15% Fixed pay 
(salary)
85% Variable pay 
(annual incentive bonus 
and long-term incentive 
awards)
Weighting of Annual Incentive Bonus metrics 2011
Proﬁt before tax
Return on sales
Cash conversion
Health, safety & 
environment
IMI Way compliance
Personal objectives
5%
5%
5%
15%
15%
55%
Weighting of Annual Incentive Bonus metrics 2012
10%
5%
15%
15%
35%
15%
5%
Proﬁt before tax
Group adjusted EPS
Organic revenue  
growth
Cash conversion
Health, safety & 
environment
IMI Way compliance
Personal objectives
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 53 Annual 
bonus
        Maximum bonus (% of salary)       Actual bonus (% of salary)
      Actual bonus (% of max) 
CEO FD Executives CEO FD Executives
1
CEO FD Executives
1
2011 150% 125% 115% 127% 105% 86% 85% 84% 75%
2010 150% 125% 115% 143% 119% 110% 95% 95% 96%
2009 130% 115% 100% 118% 105% 92% 91% 91% 92%
2008 150% 125% 100% 116% 101% 85% 77% 81% 85%
2007 100% 100% 100% 80% 80% 80% 80% 80% 80%
Under the rules of the Executive Retirement Plan (ERP), introduced in 2010, UK-based directors and senior managers 
were able to waive their bonus entitlement. The Remuneration Committee was then able to choose, at its discretion,  
to make a contribution into the ERP on their behalf.  Following changes to UK tax legislation during 2011, no further 
contributions will be made.
The Remuneration Committee always reserves the right to apply discretion in awarding bonuses and performance shares 
and may exercise this freedom should an executive not achieve their share ownership guideline within a reasonable 
period.
The committee retains power to reduce or withhold annual bonus payments in exceptional circumstances and in line with 
best practice it has reserved the power to seek claw-back of bonuses in certain cases where the bonus should not have 
been paid in the ﬁrst place (see section 7.1 for further details on discretionary powers).
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Proﬁt (£m) Average bonus paid -  
% of maximum award
Proﬁt
% paid
1
This is the average achievement across all executive directors, excluding the CEO and FD. 
There are no changes proposed for the 2012 Annual Incentive Bonus maximum.
The alignment of Annual Incentive Bonus payments to the executive directors with Group proﬁt before tax is illustrated in 
the chart below.
3.5  Annual Incentive Bonus (continued)
Maximum bonus is only payable if the stretching targets set by the Remuneration Committee are met. All the bonus 
metrics have a sliding scale calibration and on-target performance will result in a payment of 50% of the maximum bonus. 
The Annual Incentive Bonus maximum is shown in Table B below. 
 
Table B:  Annual Incentive Bonus maximum
3.  Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued)
BOARD REPORTS
54 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 3.6  Share Ownership Guidelines
The executive directors and senior executives are subject to share ownership guidelines. To the extent that an individual 
does not meet their shareholding guideline, up to 50% of the annual bonus award is required to be invested in shares  
and a matching award will be made under the Share Matching Plan (SMP) (at a lower level of maximum match).  If the 
individual meets the shareholding guideline, then the investment of their bonus in shares is encouraged through 
participation in the SMP with matching at a higher level. 
The shareholding guidelines were increased in 2009 to 125% of salary for all the executive directors (to be achieved by 
those in ofﬁce at the time by 30 June 2011 or, for new appointments, within a ﬁve year period after joining the Board).
All of the executive directors met the guidelines at the year end. The levels of holdings at the end of 2011 relative to basic 
salaries (calculated using the average share price in December 2011) were as follows:
Executive director Level of share ownership
M J Lamb  402%
D M Hurt  362%
S Toomes 153%
R M Twite  226%
I W Whiting 633%
3.7  Long-Term Incentive Plans
The Company operates two long-term share incentive plans for executive directors:
The Share Matching Plan (formerly the Deferred Bonus Plan) which is a performance-based investment arrangement; and 
The Performance Share Plan which is a conventional long-term performance incentive plan.
3.7.1  Share Matching Plan
The Share Matching Plan (SMP) runs in conjunction with the Annual Incentive Plan and is linked to the achievement of the 
share ownership guidelines for executive directors and senior executives.
Under the SMP individuals may invest up to 100% of their maximum annual bonus potential into shares; the limit being 
set on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee. The committee intends to allow such a level of investment in 
2012. By investing in the SMP, matching shares may be earned, which vest after three years, subject to the achievement 
of stretching performance conditions. Current policy is that awards made under the share matching arrangements, where 
settled in shares, will be satisﬁed through shares purchased in the market but the committee retains the ﬂexibility to use 
new issue and treasury shares.
Matching awards allow for a higher level of match up to 200% for shares that are purchased through the voluntary 
investment of bonus or other monies. The lower levels of match up to 125% for the Chief Executive and 100% for other 
executive directors apply to annual bonus that is to be compulsorily paid in shares, being up to 50% of the bonus 
according to whether, and if so, the extent to which, an executive has not met their share ownership guideline.
The matching share awards are subject to improvement in Economic Value Added (EVA) over a three year period.   
The calculation of EVA is based on segmental operating proﬁt after tax with appropriate adjustments, less a capital charge 
on the invested capital in the business reﬂecting IMI’s cost of capital. Further details of the performance conditions 
attaching to existing awards are set out in the notes to the table on page 65.  
The 2008 Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) awards vested in 2011 at 97% of maximum.  2009 SMP awards are due to vest in 
March 2012 at 95% of maximum.  Economic uncertainties at the time of commencing the 2009 plan made it difﬁcult to 
forecast EVA and led to the 2009 SMP awards being made based on exceptional metrics which included one third total 
shareholder return (on the same relative basis as for the 2009 Performance Share Plan awards), one third proﬁt before tax 
(measured annually) and one third annual priority targets aligned to annual incentive targets (measured annually). The level 
of vesting reﬂects the excellent operational performance over the period and the upper quartile relative total shareholder 
return against the comparator group.
In line with best practice, the committee retains power to claw-back awards in exceptional circumstances (see section 7.1 
for further details on discretionary powers).
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 55 2009 2010 2011
TSR Performance
Three year performance period ended 31 December...
Median to top 25% TSR
Company TSR
225%
200%
175%
150%
125%
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
-25%
-50%
3.7.2  Performance Share Plan
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) aligns the interest of executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in 
shares and provides a retention tool for key executives. The PSP allows for share-based awards worth up to a maximum 
of 100% of annual salary. The vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a 
three year period. The current policy is for PSP awards, where settled in shares, to be satisﬁed through shares purchased 
in the market but the committee retains the ﬂexibility to use new issue and treasury shares. The 2009 PSP awards are due 
to vest in March 2012 at 100% of maximum.
The performance conditions for the PSP awards are shown below:
Grant  Vest Performance Conditions Maximum
  earnings per share (EPS) 50%
  relative total shareholder return (TSR) 50%
  earnings per share (EPS) 50%
  relative total shareholder return (TSR) 50%
2009 2012 relative total shareholder return (TSR) 100%
  return on operating capital employed  (RoOCE) 25%
2010 2013 earnings per share (EPS) 50%
  relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25%
  return on operating capital employed  (RoOCE) 25%
2011 2014 earnings per share (EPS) 50%
  relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25%
  organic revenue growth (CAGR) 25%
2012 2015 earnings per share (EPS) 50%
  relative total shareholder return (TSR) 25%
3.7.2.1  Total Shareholder Return performance condition
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is well understood and accepted as a performance measure for long-term incentives and 
links rewards to shareholder value.  PSP awards granted under the plan in 2009 were also subject to a single performance 
condition in respect of relative TSR because economic uncertainties made it difﬁcult to set a realistic three year earnings 
per share target.  IMI’s relative TSR performance at the end of the three year performance period ended 31 December 
2011 placed it at the top end of the upper quartile of the comparator group and as a result the 2009 PSP awards will vest 
in full in March 2012. 
3.  Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued)
3.7  Long-Term Incentive Plans (continued)
2007 2010
2008 2011
BOARD REPORTS
56 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 25% of the 2011 and intended 2012 PSP awards are subject to a TSR performance condition. TSR is deﬁned as the 
movement in the share price during the performance period on a local currency basis with adjustments to take into 
account changes in capital structure and dividends (which are assumed to be reinvested in shares on the ex-dividend 
date). The vesting schedule for the element of awards subject to the TSR performance condition is as follows:
Ranking Vesting
Upper quartile (top 25%) or above 100%
Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100%
Median 25%
Below median 0%
To ensure that TSR reﬂects improvement in the underlying performance of the Company the Remuneration Committee 
must be satisﬁed that the ﬁnancial performance of the Company over the performance period warrants the level of vesting 
as calculated under the TSR condition. In the event that the Remuneration Committee is not satisﬁed in this respect on 
the vesting of a PSP award it has committed to disclose the factors that it reviewed and give a commentary on the 
exercise of its overriding discretion.
The TSR comparator groups for awards made in 2008 to 2011 are shown below:
Name Country*
Amada Japan  
Atlas Copco A Sweden  
BBA Aviation United Kingdom  
Bodycote International United Kingdom  
Borgwarner United States  
Cobham United Kingdom  
Cookson Group United Kingdom  
Eaton United States  
Emerson Electric United States  
Fanuc Japan  
Flowserve Corp United States  
GKN United Kingdom  
Halma United Kingdom  
Heidelberg Druck Germany  
Honeywell United States  
IDEX Corp United States  
Illinois Tool Works United States  
Ingersoll-Rand United States  
Invensys United Kingdom  
Name Country*
Johnson Matthey United Kingdom   
Manitowoc United States  
Meggitt United Kingdom  
Metso Corporation Finland  
NSK Japan  
Parker-Hanniﬁn United States  
Pentair United States  
Rotork United Kingdom  
Sandvik Sweden  
Seco Tools B Sweden  
SKF B Sweden  
SMC Japan  
Spectris United Kingdom  
Spirax-Sarco Engineering United Kingdom  
Sulzer AG Switzerland  
THK Japan  
Tyco International United States  
Weir Group United Kingdom  
Yaskawa Electric Japan
* Country is shown as country of primary listing.
Note: Enodis, Tomkins, FKI and Charter had been included in the comparator group but delisted between 2008 and 2011.
The 2012 comparator group will be the same as it was in 2011 subject to any delisting.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 57 250
200
150
100
50
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
IMI plc
FTSE All Share / Industrial Engineering - SEC
FTSE All Share
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return over the ﬁve years ended 31 December 2011 with 
that of the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index and the FTSE All Share Index. The FTSE All Share Industrial 
Engineering Index was chosen as a comparator index because it is the industry share index in which the Company is 
classiﬁed and provides a reasonable benchmark for assessment of its relative performance. The FTSE All Share Index 
was chosen as it is a relevant broad equity market index. Over the past ﬁve years the total shareholder return has 
underperformed the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Sector Index by 24.6% and outperformed the FTSE All Share 
Index by 94.4%.
3.7.2.2  EPS performance condition
EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and because  
the Remuneration Committee believed it worked well in combination with TSR which is a comparative measure.  
The performance condition for one half of the 2011 PSP awards and the intended 2012 PSP awards will be based on the 
Company’s compound annual earnings per share growth over a three-year period. The Remuneration Committee sets the 
EPS targets in respect of each annual award at the level it considers appropriately stretching given the conditions in which 
the Company is operating. The vesting schedule for the awards subject to the EPS performance condition proposed to be 
granted in 2012, which is the same as for the 2011 awards, is as follows:
Compound EPS growth Vesting
15% per annum 100%
Between 6% and 15% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100%
6% per annum 25%
Less than 6% per annum 0%
As for 2011 awards, the EPS measure for intended 2012 PSP awards will be based on adjusted basic earnings per share 
which includes adjustment for the elimination of the after tax cost of restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation and 
impairment, ﬁnancial instruments, but including economic hedge contract gains and losses, and excluding any other 
items meeting the deﬁnition of an exceptional item as deﬁned in the Group Accounting Policies.
3.  Executive directors’ remuneration and terms of appointment (continued)
3.7.2.1  Total Shareholder Return performance condition (continued)
BOARD REPORTS
58 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT Average RoOCE Vesting
85% 100%
Between 65% and 85% Pro-rata between 25% and 100%
65% 25%
Less than 65% 0%
Given the focus on organic revenue growth, and the acceptance that strong margin discipline is ﬁrmly embedded  
across the Company for the 2012 PSP grant the RoOCE element will be replaced with a 3-year compound growth in 
organic revenue. 
3.7.2.4  Organic revenue growth % (2012 PSP performance condition) 
Organic revenue growth % (CAGR) is being adopted for the 2012 PSP to encourage focus on organic growth. 
Average CAGR % Vesting
+8% 100%
Between +2.7% and +8% Pro-rata between 25% and 100%
+2.7% 25%
Less than 2.7% 0%
Details of the awards made under the PSP are contained in the table of directors’ awards on page 64.
In line with best practice, the committee retains power to claw-back awards in exceptional circumstances (see section 7.1 
for further details on discretionary powers).
4. All Employee Share Plans
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
4.1  UK SAYE plan
The Company operates a HM Revenue and Customs approved savings-related share option scheme which is open to the 
majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the UK-based executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all 
participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions 
and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase shares in their employer’s business 
or group.
4.2  Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
UK executive directors also participate in an All Employee Share Ownership Plan which is open to the majority of the 
Group’s UK employees.  Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of a new plan to 
replace the expired original, shares to a value equal to the lesser of £3,000 and 0.6% of each participant’s basic salary 
will be acquired in 2012 at market value by the Trustee of the plan in respect of their participation during 2011. The plan is 
not operated subject to speciﬁc performance conditions. Eligible employees are able to invest up to £1,500 annually in a 
tax-efﬁcient manner in purchasing partnership shares under the plan. Each of the UK executive directors makes the 
maximum contribution from their salary towards partnership shares under the plan. Matching shares may be awarded in 
respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching 
shares.
3.7.2.3  Return on Operating Capital Employed performance condition
Return on Operating Capital Employed (RoOCE) was adopted as a performance measure for a portion of PSP awards in 
2010 to incentivise sustained working capital improvement.  The vesting of the other 25% of the 2011 PSP award will 
depend on IMI’s average RoOCE over the three years from the year of grant.  For 2011 awards RoOCE has been deﬁned 
to exclude intangible assets and calibrated as follows:
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 59 4.3   Global Employee Share Purchase Plans
New ‘all-employee’ share plans intended to encourage employee investment in IMI shares were approved by shareholders 
at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and save as you earn type plans were launched in the USA and Germany with 
extension into China planned for 2012.  
4.4   Share Option Plan
A share option plan for senior employees was established in 2009 and shareholder approval of this plan was given at the 
2011 Annual General Meeting in order to introduce the ﬂexibility to satisfy awards using new issue and treasury shares.  
No directors or others who receive PSP awards receive such share options.
5.  Share dilution
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
The Association of British Insurers has set recommended guidelines on the number of new issue and treasury shares that 
can be used under a company’s share plans. The guidelines are 10% of the issued share capital in any 10 year period for 
all share plans, with an inner limit of 5% in 10 years for executive schemes. IMI operates within these limits and its 
standing as at 31 December 2011 was 2.90% and 1.79% respectively.
6.  Pension entitlement
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
The IMI Pension Fund was closed to all employees in respect of future service from 31 December 2010 and alternative 
pension arrangements were established including an Executive Retirement Plan (ERP), which was intended to be a tax 
efﬁcient long-term savings vehicle for UK senior managers to save for retirement outside the registered pensions regime. 
Discretionary contributions were made to the ERP in 2010 and 2011 but it has been rendered tax ineffective for future 
contributions and possible alternative provisions are being kept under review.
6.1  Pension beneﬁts provided for 2011 service
Under the rules of the ERP which was introduced in 2010, UK based directors and senior managers were able to waive 
their pension beneﬁts and bonus entitlements. The Remuneration Committee was then able to choose, at its discretion,  
to make a contribution into the ERP on their behalf, which is an unregistered deﬁned contribution arrangement structured 
as an offshore trust.  Such contributions to the ERP in respect of executive directors are determined on a basis that is 
intended to be cost neutral to the Company.  At the 2010 AGM shareholders approved changes to the rules of the SMP 
and PSP that permit these awards to be settled in the form of employer contributions to the ERP.  Following changes to 
UK tax legislation during 2011, no further contributions will be made.
Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash allowance instead of pension beneﬁts. With the Remuneration 
Committee’s approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, redirect part or all of their allowance into any 
deﬁned contribution pension arrangement in the country in which they are contracted. The value of the pension allowance 
for 2011 can be viewed below.
 Value of pension allowance
M J Lamb £252,000  (35% of salary)
D M Hurt £138,250  (35% of salary)
R M Twite £133,117  (35% of salary)
I W Whiting £120,750  (35% of salary)
S Toomes £67,375  (35% of salary since appointment)
To reﬂect particular requirements in Switzerland, the Company is establishing a pension arrangement there for S Toomes. 
The details of this arrangement are being ﬁnalised, but it is expected to be mainly deﬁned-contribution in nature,  
although there will be a deﬁned beneﬁt element as is required by law in Switzerland. The Company contributions to this 
arrangement will be deducted from the pension allowance described above (and the contributions will be less than the 
4.  All Employee Share Plans (continued)
BOARD REPORTS
60 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT pension allowance), it is expected the arrangement will be backdated to 1 June 2011 and further details will be included in 
next year’s report.
6.2  Pension beneﬁts for past service
M J Lamb, R M Twite and S Toomes were previously active members of the deﬁned beneﬁt IMI Pension Fund.  M J Lamb 
opted out with effect from 6 April 2006; R M Twite opted out with effect from 1 February 2007 and S Toomes from  
31 August 2010.  As a result they retain past pensionable service up to these dates and the value of this is shown in the 
table on page 66.  The nature of these beneﬁts is more complicated than the pension beneﬁts provided in respect of 
2011, but the key elements are summarised below:
 The normal retirement age under the Fund is 60 for M J Lamb, and 62 for R M Twite and S Toomes.  M J Lamb may 
elect to retire from employment with IMI and receive a pension at any time after age 57 without any actuarial discount, 
and R M Twite and S Toomes may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 without actuarial discount.
 On death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided equal to two-thirds of the member’s pension for  
M J Lamb and 50% of the member’s pension for R M Twite and S Toomes.
 Should M J Lamb die within the ﬁrst ﬁve years of retirement, a lump sum is also paid equal to the balance of ﬁve 
years’ pension payments.  For R M Twite and S Toomes, the dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the 
member’s pension for the remainder of the ﬁve year period.
 Pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum pension, are increased each year in line with price 
inﬂation up to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension 
built up after 1 January 2006.
 M J Lamb’s past pension beneﬁts generally continue to be linked to ﬁnal salary inﬂation (averaged over the past three 
years) and equivalent beneﬁts to those provided for under the Fund rules immediately prior to closure are preserved  
in relation to ill-health retirement, death in service and early retirement at the Company’s instance.  The difference 
between these beneﬁts and those automatically provided under the Fund, the EPM beneﬁts, will be assessed as at  
31 December 2011 and each subsequent year end until death in service, retirement on ill-health grounds or retirement 
at the Company’s instance and there may be a payment to the Fund (to augment Fund beneﬁts) or a payment in lieu 
to M J Lamb (or his estate) or by way of contribution to the ERP or another pension arrangement shortly after each 
year end until a ﬁnal augmentation or payment is made following death in service or relevant early retirement event. As 
at 31 December 2011 no EPM beneﬁts were payable.
I W Whiting is eligible for beneﬁts under three arrangements in the USA. The ﬁrst is a deﬁned contribution arrangement, 
the IMI 401(k) Plan. The second is a deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement, the Control Components Inc Employees’ Pension Plan. 
His pension from this plan is payable from age 65 without further increase. The third is also a deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement, 
the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. His pension from this plan is payable from age 65, subject  
to completion of 10 years’ service with the Group, without further increase. On retirement I W Whiting has the option of 
exchanging part of his pension to provide for a spouse’s pension payable on his death after retirement. 
The policy regarding pension arrangements for new executive director appointments will be ﬂexible to take account of the 
individual position, the cost of pension arrangements to the Company, including in particular the cost of deﬁned beneﬁts, 
and the alternative forms of pension provision.  However, the norm would be not to offer deﬁned beneﬁts to new executive 
directors. 
7.  Termination Clauses
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
Consistent with the policy on service contracts, the executive directors’ service contracts are subject to termination on 
one year’s notice by the Company or the executive directors. Contractual retirement age for UK-based executive directors 
is 65 and for Switzerland-based executive directors, 60.
These contracts do not include any speciﬁc provision for compensation payable upon early termination save that,  
as a consequence of the closure of the IMI Pension Fund on 31 December 2010, the Company has made alternative 
contractual arrangements in lieu of certain contractual entitlements to pension beneﬁts, which, but for the closure,  
would have been provided through the IMI Pension Fund to all members in the same membership category as the  
Chief Executive. The alternative contractual arrangements for all these members include augmentation of Fund beneﬁts 
(to the level that would have been provided save for the closure) or payment in lieu in respect of beneﬁts arising on early 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 61 retirement by reason of redundancy or other termination at the Company’s instance. Had such beneﬁts arisen for the  
Chief Executive as at 31 December 2011, the estimated cash cost to the Company would have been approximately £5.1m. 
The payment in lieu computation is designed to be neutral to the Company on a net of tax basis and compared with the 
cash contributions that would otherwise have been expected to provide the beneﬁts through the Fund.
It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee to limit any compensation which might be paid in the event of early 
termination of an executive director’s contract to the legal minimum, taking into account mitigation and other relevant 
factors.
The dates of the contracts and period to normal retirement age for those serving as executive directors during the year are 
as follows:
    Date of Date of    Period to legal
  Date joined appointment service   retirement age as 
  Group to Board contract Notice period at 31.12.11 
M J Lamb 31.10.86 18.07.96 01.01.11 12 months 13 years
D M Hurt 01.05.06 01.07.06 01.10.06 12 months 9 years 5 months
S Toomes 18.02.85 01.06.11 01.09.11 12 months 21 years 5 months
R M Twite 26.09.88 01.02.07 01.02.07 12 months 20 years 5 months
I W Whiting 18.07.05 01.09.10 01.01.10 12 months 17 years
7.1  Discretionary Powers
The committee retains power to reduce or withhold Annual Incentive Bonus payments and awards under the long-term 
incentive share plans in exceptional circumstances (as described below). In line with best practice it has also reserved  
the power to seek claw-back of bonuses in certain cases where the bonus should not have been paid in the ﬁrst place. 
Claw-back conditions feature in all incentive share plan schemes and annual incentive bonus rules.
Exceptional circumstances would include the requirement to restate the accounts of the Company’s group, for example, 
for a correction of an error as deﬁned by IAS8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’, in 
circumstances where, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the original overstatement in the accounts has 
resulted, or would result, either directly or indirectly, in either a participant’s awards vesting or Annual Incentive Bonus 
result, to a greater degree than would have been the case had that misstatement not been made; or where a participant is 
found guilty of any serious criminal offence (as determined in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee) arising out of  
or in connection with the participant’s ofﬁce or employment with a participating company.
8.  External appointments
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
Executive directors may accept one external appointment with the consent of the Board, and are normally allowed to 
retain fees from external non-executive directorships. M J Lamb was appointed a non-executive director of Severn Trent 
Water plc on 29 February 2008 and received fees in the year to 31 December 2011 of £46,350 (2010: £42,500).   
D M Hurt was appointed as a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle plc on 10 March 2010 and received fees in  
the year to 31 December 2011 of £55,800 (2010: £39,682).
7.  Termination Clauses (continued)
BOARD REPORTS
62 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 1
  S Toomes became a director on 1 June 2011.  N B M Askew retired as a director on 31 October 2011. R Quarta was appointed as a 
non-executive director on 1 June 2011 and as Chairman from 1 November 2011.
2
  M J Lamb, D M Hurt and R M Twite waived all or part of their 2010 bonus entitlement and pension allowance.  The Company made 
discretionary contributions into the Executive Retirement Plan as disclosed in last year’s annual report.
3
  R M Twite’s salary increased from £373,000 to £395,000 on 1 September 2011.
Non-executive remuneration shown above of £464,000 (2010: £400,000) represents fees rather than salary.   
No compensation for loss of ofﬁce was paid to or receivable by any director in 2011.
Beneﬁts in kind provided to executive directors consist of the provision of private health care arrangements and all 
employee share ownership plan awards.  
All executive directors elected for a cash alternative, instead of a company car. Sums paid by way of taxable allowances 
in the above table include cash allowances in lieu of company car, certain pension beneﬁts and tax assistance.  
Relocation allowances were provided to S Toomes and I W Whiting in respect of their moves to Switzerland.
10.  Directors’ share awards
This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited.
Share awards/options are outstanding under the following schemes:
UK SAYE - IMI Savings-Related Share Option Scheme   PSP - Performance Share Plan
SMP - Share Matching Plan (formerly DBP)    SOP - Share Option Plan
US SAYE - IMI US Stock Purchase Plan 2011
9.  Summary of directors’ remuneration
This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited.
   Sums by way    Bonus and pension
 Salary Non-cash of taxable    allowance
 and fees  beneﬁts  allowances Bonus 2011 Total 2011 Total 2010 waived 2010
2
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 
Non-executive       
N B M Askew
1
 163 - - - 163  195   -  
K S Beeston 53 - - - 53  45   -  
A M Frew 53 - - - 53  45   -  
T M Gateley 68 - - - 68  60   -  
R Quarta
1
 64 - - - 64  
R J Stack 63 - - - 63  55   -  
       
Executive       
D M Hurt 395 4 157 416 972  403   534  
M J Lamb 720 5 273 914 1,912 830 1,020  
S Toomes
1
 193 5 172 187 557 - -
R M Twite
3
 380 4 150 387 921  530   325  
I W Whiting 345 13 267 216 841 304 -
Total 2,497 31 1,019 2,120 5,667 2,467  1,879
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 63 During the year
+ This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three year period.
a) No performance conditions are attached to the SAYE options.
b)  50% of the 2008 awards were based on comparative TSR (subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisﬁed that the relative 
TSR position reﬂects underlying performance) with vesting at median (25% vests) to upper quartile (full vesting), and the remaining 
50% on EPS growth of between 6% per annum (25% vests) to 15% per annum (full vesting) over the three-year performance period.  
2008 PSP awards vested in 2011 at maximum.
c)  2009 awards were entirely based on comparative TSR with the vesting scale as described in b) above and will vest in 2012 at 
maximum.
d)  2010 and 2011 awards were based on TSR and EPS measures with the vesting scales as described in b) above for 25% and 50%  
of awards, respectively, and, as to the other 25%, upon RoOCE with vesting on a linear scale from 24% (originally 25% before 
adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) of maximum to maximum for RoOCE of between 24% and 30% (originally 
25% and 32% before adjustments made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J). 
e)  SOP awards shown were made to I W Whiting and S Toomes prior to their appointment as executive directors and are not subject to 
performance conditions.  Executive directors are not eligible to participate in the SOP .
*  The award price is the exercise price for awards structured as options and the price used to calculate the number of shares for  
PSP awards to UK participants in the PSP which are structured as deferred share awards or nil cost options and, in each case, is 
determined by reference to an average middle market quotation without discount.
The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was £7.60 per share and the closing price range during the 
year was £6.36 to £11.19.
Director Scheme
Perf-
orm-
ance
cond-
ition
Date of
grant/
award
Award
price*
As at
01.01.11  
(or date  
of app-
oint-
ment
if later) Granted
Exercised
/ vested Lapsed
As at
31.12.11
(or date of
retirement
if earlier)
Date
from which
exercisable/
vesting date
Expiry
date
Date of
exercise
Mid
market
price at
date of
exercise
M J Lamb UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544    4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13
PSP b)
c)
d)
d)
04.04.08
11.03.09
07.05.10
10.03.11
473.58p
229.50p
679.00p
956.17p
138,500 
285,800 
96,600 
Nil 75,300
158,977+ Nil
285,800 
96,600 
75,300 
28.03.11
11.03.12
22.03.13
10.03.14
04.04.18
11.03.19
22.03.20
10.03.21
28.03.11 1016.00p
D M Hurt UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 7,772    7,772 01.08.14 31.01.15
PSP b)
c)
d)
d)
04.04.08
11.03.09
07.05.10
10.03.11
473.58p
229.50p
679.00p
956.17p
76,000 
156,800 
53,000 
Nil 41,300
87,235+ Nil
156,800 
53,000 
41,300 
28.03.11
11.03.12
22.03.13
10.03.14
04.04.18
11.03.19
22.03.20
10.03.21
28.03.11 1016.00p
R M Twite UK SAYE a) 09.04.09 201.36p 4,544    4,544 01.08.12 31.01.13
PSP b)
c)
d)
d)
04.04.08
11.03.09
07.05.10
10.03.11
473.58p
229.50p
679.00p
956.17p 
71,500 
148,100 
50,100 
Nil 39,000
82,069+ Nil
148,100 
50,100 
39,000 
28.03.11
11.03.12
22.03.13
10.03.14
04.04.18
11.03.19
22.03.20
10.03.21
28.03.11 1016.00p
I W Whiting US SAYE a) 19.12.11 631.85p Nil 977   977 25.08.13 18.03.14
PSP
 
 
SOP
b)
b)
d)
e)
e)
04.04.08
03.10.08
10.03.11
03.09.09
22.03.10
473.58p
376.25p
956.17p 
440.93p
645.00p
30,000 
9,900 
Nil
120,000 
75,000 
36,000
34,434+
11,276+
Nil
Nil
36,000 
120,000 
75,000 
28.03.11
03.10.11
10.03.14
03.09.12
22.03.13
04.04.18
03.10.18
10.03.21
03.09.19
22.03.20
28.03.11
23.12.11
1016.00p 
746.50p 
S Toomes PSP
SOP
d)
e)
e)
10.03.11
03.09.09
22.03.10
956.17p 
440.93p
645.00p
21,100 
90,000
57,500
21,100 
90,000 
57,500 
10.03.14
03.09.12
22.03.13
10.03.21
03.09.19
22.03.20
During the year
10.1  Table of SAYE, PSP and SOP awards
10.  Directors’ share awards (continued)
BOARD REPORTS
64 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 10.2  Table of SMP awards
+  This includes dividends paid in shares on the vested portion over the three-year period.
a)  The applicable performance measure was EVA over the years 2008-2010.  Vesting was tiered (with linear progression in each band) as 
follows: 0% to 20% of maximum (maximum being a 125% match for the Chief Executive and a 100% match for other executive 
directors) for positive EVA of up to £200m, 20% to 50% for £200m to £290m, 50% to 85% for £290m to £380m and 85% to 100%  
for £380m to £400m EVA.  2008 SMP awards vested in March 2011 at 97% of maximum.
b)  Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included one third TSR (on the same basis as for the 2009 PSP 
awards), one third proﬁt before tax (measured annually) and one third annual priority targets (measured annually). The annual priority 
targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and proﬁt drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash 
conversion and return on sales.  2009 SMP awards will vest in 2012 at 95% of maximum.
c)  The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was EVA over the years 2010 to 2012.  Vesting is tiered (with linear progression in 
each band) as follows: 0% to 25% of maximum for positive EVA of up to £235m, 25% to 50% for £235m to £335m, 50% to 75% for 
£335m to £369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and 75% to 100% for between 
£369m (originally £395m before adjustment made in 2011 following the acquisition of Z&J) and £475m.
d)  The performance measure for 2011 SMP awards was compound annual growth in EVA over the years 2011 to 2013 compared to  
EVA in the preceding 3 years. No awards will vest if compound annual growth in EVA is negative. 10% of awards vest for positive 
compound annual growth over the period, with subsequent vesting being tiered (with linear progression in each band) as follows: 10% 
to 25% vesting for compound annual growth between 0% and 6% and 25% to 100% vesting for compound annual growth of between 
6% and 17%.
10.3 Awards under the legacy IMI Deferred Share Plan 2002
Director
Perform-
ance
condition
Date of
grant/
award
Mid
market
price at
date of
award
As at
01.01.11  
(or date  
of app-
oint-
ment
if later) Granted
Exercised/
vested Lapsed
As at
31.12.11
(or date of
retirement
if earlier)
Date
from which
exercisable/
vesting date
Date of
exercise/
vesting
Mid
market
price at
date of
exercise
M J Lamb a)
b)
c)
d)
04.04.08
01.06.09
07.05.10
28.03.11
461.75p
357.75p
640.50p
1016.00p
66,100 
690,359 
330,090
Nil
 
212,530
78,174+ 1,983 Nil
690,359 
330,090 
212,530 
28.03.11
26.03.12
22.03.13
28.03.14
28.03.11 1016.00p
D M Hurt a)
b)
c)
d)
04.04.08
01.06.09
07.05.10
28.03.11
461.75p
357.75p
640.50p
1016.00p
28,300 
174,917 
160,246 
Nil
 
 
 
97,190 
33,956+ 849 Nil
174,917 
160,246 
97,190 
28.03.11
26.03.12
22.03.13
28.03.14
28.03.11 1016.00p
R M Twite a)
b)
c)
d)
04.04.08
01.06.09
07.05.10
28.03.11
461.75p
357.75p
640.50p
1016.00p
49,702 
146,645 
131,602 
Nil 84,448
61,158+ 1,491 Nil
146,645 
131,602 
84,448 
28.03.11
26.03.12
22.03.13
28.03.14
28.03.11 1016.00p
I W Whiting a)
b)
c)
d)
04.04.08
01.06.09
07.05.10
28.03.11
461.75p
357.75p
640.50p
1016.00p
24,446 
122,370 
63,729 
Nil 72,238 
31,672+ 733 Nil
122,370 
63,729 
72,238  
28.03.11
26.03.12
22.03.13
28.03.14
28.03.11 1016.00p
S Toomes b)
c)
d)
01.06.09
07.05.10
28.03.11
357.75p
640.50p
1016.00p
62,367 
34,487 
35,109 
62,367 
34,487 
35,109  
26.03.12
22.03.13
28.03.14
During the year
  Purchase price Number of    Mid-market 
 * Date of DSP for initial shares initial shares Matching  price at 
Director award (per share) purchased award Release date release date
M J Lamb 04.04.08 465.37p 37,225  9,306  28.03.11 1016.00p 
R M Twite 04.04.08 465.37p 16,872  4,218  28.03.11 1016.00p
* No performance conditions were attached to DSP awards which were made following mandatory reinvestments into the DSP of cash 
payments under a defunct long-term incentive scheme under which no other awards remain outstanding. The ﬁnal 2008 awards vested in 
March 2011.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 65 11.  Summary of directors’ pension arrangements
This section of the Remuneration Report is required to be audited.
Details of the pension beneﬁts earned in the IMI Pension Fund or, in relation to Ian Whiting, the Control Components Inc 
Employees’ Pension Plan and the IMI Americas Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan are summarised in the following 
table:
1  Pensionable service ceased with effect from 6 April 2006 for M J Lamb, 1 February 2007 for R M Twite, 31 August 2010 for S Toomes 
and 1 September 2010 for I W Whiting.
2  For M J Lamb and R M Twite the increase in the accrued pension during the year reﬂects the increase under the IMI Pension Fund, 
which is generally in line with inﬂation.  No allowance has been made for the value of beneﬁts that may be derived by the payment of 
additional voluntary contributions.
3 Or as at date of appointment if later.
4  S Toomes was appointed as a director on 1 June 2011 and the ﬁgures shown in the table relate to the period from 1 June 2011 to 31 
December 2011. As S Toomes has been a director for less than one year the increase in accrued pension relative to (annual) inﬂation 
and the value of this increase relative to (annual) inﬂation is not applicable.
5  Figures have been converted using exchange rates of £1:$1.55 as at 31 December 2011 (£1:$1.57 as at 31 December 2010). Due to 
rounding the pension shown as at 31 December 2011 is £1,000 pa higher than that previously shown at 31 December 2010. The 
actual increase is less than £500 pa and this is entirely due to the change in exchange rates over the year as in $ terms I W Whiting’s 
pension has not changed over the year.
The transfer values that would be payable from the IMI Pension Fund at the relevant date are also shown in the table, 
together with the transfer value (at the end of the year) of the increase in the accrued pension over the year (net of 
inﬂation). The transfer value shown is the estimated capital value of the future pension payments in retirement, determined 
by the Fund’s Trustee in accordance with the appropriate statutory requirements. In respect of I W Whiting’s beneﬁts 
under US pension arrangements, the transfer value quoted is based on the method and assumptions used by the 
Company to account for the costs associated with its US deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes (see note 19 to the ﬁnancial 
statements on pages 108 to 114).
Under the method and assumptions used by the Company to account for the costs associated with its deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes, the aggregate value of the accrued beneﬁts as at 31 December 2011 for the executive directors was 
£11.77m (2010: £8.96m).
       Difference  Increase Value of 
    Transfer Transfer between  in accrued increase 
    value of value of  transfer Increase pension in accrued 
   Accrued  accrued  accrued  values at in accrued  over the pension at 
  Pensionable pension pension  pension   31.12.10
3
 pension year 31.12.11  
 Age at service to at at at and over the (net of  (net of  
 31.12.11 31.12.11
1
 31.12.11
2
 31.12.11 31.12.10
3
 31.12.11 year
2
 inﬂation) inﬂation) 
Director Years Years £000 pa £000  £000  £000 £000 pa £000 pa £000
M J Lamb  51  20  310  6,424  5,290  1,134  15  - - 
S Toomes 
4
 43  24  69  849  746  103  1  n/a n/a
R M Twite  44  18  61  786  650  136  3  - -
I W Whiting 
5
 47  5  38 187 137  50                  - - -
BOARD REPORTS
66 Board reports
REMUNERATION REPORT 12.  Directors’ interests
This section of the Remuneration Report is not required to be audited.
The interests (all being beneﬁcial) of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown below:
+ Including shares held within company share plans.
* R Quarta and S Toomes became directors on 1 June 2011.
During the period 31 December 2011 to 1 March 2012 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from 
those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 10 January 2012 of 15 shares on 
behalf of each of M J Lamb and R M Twite and 16 shares on behalf of D M Hurt at 808.5p per share and 14 February 
2012 of 14 shares on behalf of M J Lamb and R M Twite and 13 shares on behalf of D M Hurt at 916p per share.
Approved by the Board on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
Bob J Stack
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Director during   Interest as at 31.12.11 Interest as at 01.01.11
2011  Shares held or date of retirement if earlier or date of appointment if later
N B M Askew Ordinary shares 10,000 10,000
K S Beeston Ordinary shares 20,000 20,000
A M Frew Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500
T M Gateley Ordinary shares 7,500 7,500
D M Hurt Ordinary shares+ 193,928 186,243
M J Lamb Ordinary shares+ 390,834 411,574
R Quarta* Ordinary shares - -
R J Stack Ordinary shares 15,000 15,000
S Toomes* Ordinary shares 68,049 68,049
R M Twite Ordinary shares+ 121,757 146,605
I  W Whiting Ordinary shares+ 292,033 214,651
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 67 BOARD REPORTS
68 Board reports
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report 
and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. 
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with those International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve 
the Group ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they present fairly the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial 
performance and cash ﬂows of the Group for that period. In preparing those Group ﬁnancial statements, the directors are 
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates 
and Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs is insufﬁcient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance; and
 state that the Company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law the directors must not approve the parent company ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing 
the parent company ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
 prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Group and the 
parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors listed on pages 36 and 37 conﬁrms that:
 the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in this annual report, which have been prepared in accordance 
with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; and
 the management report (which comprises the Directors’ Report and the business review) includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea
Company Secretary
1 March 2012
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 69
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2011
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related 
notes 1 to 27. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted  
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.  
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68, the directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:

Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the Group ﬁnancial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 The directors’ statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern; and
 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
Birmingham
1 March 2012
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to 
the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 70
for the year ended 31 December 2011
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 Notes  2011   2010  
  Before   Before   
  exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional   
  items items Total items items Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,3,4  2,135  (4) 2,131  1,917  (6) 1,911  
Segmental operating proﬁt  2  374.1    374.1   319.7    319.7  
Reversal of economic hedge  
  contract gains  2    (4.1) (4.1)    (2.7) (2.7) 
Restructuring costs  2,4    (23.5) (23.5)    (16.0) (16.0) 
Acquired intangible amortisation  11    (32.3) (32.3)    (7.0) (7.0) 
Employee beneﬁt curtailment - UK scheme  19     - -     15.1  15.1 
Operating proﬁt  2,3,4  374.1  (59.9) 314.2   319.7  (10.6) 309.1 
Financial income  6  3.3  13.9  17.2   5.2  20.5  25.7  
Financial expense  6  (20.2) (16.0) (36.2)  (20.5) (8.2) (28.7) 
Net ﬁnance credit relating to deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension schemes  19  6.2    6.2    -     -
Net ﬁnancial (expense)/income  6  (10.7) (2.1) (12.8)  (15.3) 12.3  (3.0)
Proﬁt before tax  7  363.4  (62.0) 301.4   304.4  1.7  306.1  
Taxation  8  (101.8) 4.1  (97.7)  (91.3) (1.2) (92.5)
Proﬁt for the year from  
  continuing operations    261.6  (57.9) 203.7   213.1  0.5  213.6  
Proﬁt from operations discontinued  
  in prior years   5    -   -   12.8  12.8 
Total proﬁt for the year    261.6  (57.9) 203.7   213.1  13.3  226.4   
Attributable to:               
Owners of the parent       200.4        224.7   
Non-controlling interests       3.3        1.7  
Proﬁt for the year        203.7       226.4 
Earnings per share  9             
Basic - from proﬁt for the year       63.2p      70.4p 
Diluted - from proﬁt for the year        62.1p      69.4p
Basic - from continuing operations        63.2p      66.4p 
Diluted - from continuing operations        62.1p      65.4p GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
  2011  2010 
 £m £m £m £m
Proﬁt for the year   203.7     226.4 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)         
Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 1.9     (6.5)  
Income tax effect on above (0.5)    1.8   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of  
  hedge settlements and funding revaluations (9.7)   16.9   
Income tax effect on above 0.3     (0.9)  
   (8.0)    11.3  
Fair value gain/(loss) on available for sale ﬁnancial assets   1.2     (2.5)
Actuarial loss on deﬁned beneﬁt plans (84.8)   (22.2)  
Income tax effect on above 15.5     3.4   
   (69.3)    (18.8)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax   (76.1)   (10.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax   127.6     216.4 
Attributable to:         
Owners of the parent   123.9     214.4 
Non-controlling interests   3.7     2.0 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax   127.6     216.4  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 72
at 31 December 2011
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
   Restated 
   (note 1) 
 Notes 2011 2010 
  £m £m
Assets       
Intangible assets 11 497.2  519.3  
Property, plant and equipment 12 248.3  241.3 
Employee beneﬁt assets 19 1.9  1.6 
Deferred tax assets 13 75.7  56.3  
Other receivables  5.5  4.9  
Other ﬁnancial assets 18 4.9  7.0  
Total non-current assets   833.5  830.4 
Inventories 14 323.6  288.0  
Trade and other receivables 15 388.1  345.2  
Other current ﬁnancial assets 18 7.2  12.3  
Current tax   12.1  4.8  
Investments 18 20.4  19.2  
Cash and cash equivalents 18 147.9  122.9  
Total current assets   899.3  792.4 
Total assets   1,732.8  1,622.8 
Liabilities       
Bank overdraft 18 (0.4) (2.5) 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16, 18 (13.3) (13.2) 
Provisions 21 (21.6) (13.9) 
Current tax   (31.4) (36.8) 
Trade and other payables 17 (484.1) (422.8) 
Other current ﬁnancial liabilities 18 (7.1) (4.6) 
Total current liabilities   (557.9) (493.8)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 16, 18 (242.4) (252.6) 
Employee beneﬁt obligations 19 (205.7) (201.0) 
Provisions 21 (33.2) (47.4) 
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (39.6) (20.5) 
Other payables   (39.8) (31.7)
Total non-current liabilities   (560.7) (553.2)
Total liabilities   (1,118.6) (1,047.0)
Net assets   614.2  575.8 
Equity       
Share capital 22 85.0  85.0  
Share premium   169.3  168.1  
Other reserves   59.0  67.4  
Retained earnings   251.5  205.2 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent   564.8  525.7 
Non-controlling interests   49.4  50.1 
Total equity   614.2  575.8 
 
Approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
Roberto Quarta 
Chairman GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 73
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
  Share  Capital    Total Non- 
 Share premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total 
 capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2010 84.9  166.6  7.9  7.4  41.1  91.9  399.8  2.2  402.0 
Proﬁt for the year            224.7  224.7  1.7  226.4  
Other comprehensive income        (4.7) 15.7  (21.3) (10.3) 0.3  (10.0)
Total comprehensive income        (4.7) 15.7  203.4  214.4  2.0  216.4
Issue of share capital  0.1  1.5          1.6    1.6 
Dividends paid          (70.9) (70.9) (0.5) (71.4) 
Share based payments (net of tax)           10.3  10.3    10.3  
Shares acquired for employee 
   share scheme trust           (29.5) (29.5)   (29.5)
Investment in partnership 
   by UK Pension Fund               48.6  48.6 
Income earned by partnership               (2.2) (2.2)
At 31 December 2010  85.0  168.1  7.9  2.7  56.8  205.2  525.7  50.1  575.8 
 
Changes in equity in 2011                  
Proﬁt for the year            200.4  200.4  3.3  203.7 
Other comprehensive income        1.4  (9.8) (68.1) (76.5) 0.4  (76.1)
Total comprehensive income        1.4  (9.8) 132.3  123.9  3.7  127.6 
Issue of share capital  -  1.2          1.2    1.2 
Dividends paid            (88.8) (88.8)   (88.8)
Share based payments (net of tax)           10.6  10.6    10.6 
Shares acquired for employee  
   share scheme trust           (7.8) (7.8)   (7.8) 
Income earned by partnership               (4.4) (4.4)
At 31 December 2011  85.0  169.3  7.9  4.1  47.0  251.5  564.8  49.4  614.2  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 74
for the year ended 31 December 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
  Restated  
 2011 2010 
 £m £m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities     
Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 203.7  213.6  
Adjustments for:    
   Depreciation 43.6  44.8  
   (Reversal of impairment)/impairment of property, plant and equipment (2.5) 3.4  
   Amortisation 36.4  11.4 
   Impairment of intangible assets -  0.4  
Loss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2  (2.9) 
Loss on disposal of investments -  0.1  
Financial income (17.2) (25.7) 
Financial expense 36.2  28.7  
Net ﬁnance income relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme (6.2) -  
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 8.9  5.5  
Income tax expense 97.7  92.5  
Increase in trade and other receivables (45.1) (13.3) 
Increase in inventories (35.7) (7.8) 
Increase in trade and other payables 67.8  53.3  
Decrease in provisions and employee beneﬁts (25.3) (26.0)
Cash generated from the operations 362.5  378.0  
Income taxes paid (90.9) (56.3)
  271.6  321.7  
CCI investigation costs (2.1) (4.3) 
Refund of EU ﬁne * -  5.4  
Additional pension scheme funding (52.9) (16.8) 
Special contribution to the UK Pension Fund -  (48.6)
Net cash from operating activities 216.6  257.4 
Cash ﬂows from investing activities     
Interest received 3.3  5.2  
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  2.8  7.1  
Sale of investments 1.1  0.8  
Purchase of investments (0.7) (0.3) 
Settlement of transactional derivatives 3.0  4.0  
Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 5.6  (2.7) 
Income from discontinued business (Polypipe) * -  7.4  
Acquisitions of controlling interests (8.9) (117.4) 
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (52.1) (45.8) 
Capitalised non-acquired intangibles (6.8) (5.0)
Net cash from investing activities (52.7) (146.7)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities     
Interest paid (20.2) (20.7) 
Investment in pension partnership by UK Pension Fund -  48.6  
Acquisition of non-controlling interests -  (12.4) 
Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) -  
Purchase of own shares (7.8) (29.5) 
Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.2  1.6  
Net (repayment)/drawdown of borrowings (16.0) 14.2  
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest -  (0.5) 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (88.8) (70.9)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities (136.0) (69.6)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27.9  41.1  
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 120.4  75.7  
Effect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on cash held (0.8) 3.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year** 147.5  120.4 
* Representing proﬁt from operations discontinued in prior years (2010: £12.8m)   
** Net of bank overdrafts of £0.4m (2010: £2.5m)     
Notes to the cash ﬂow appear in note 23 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 75
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.  Signiﬁcant accounting policies
IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.  The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the 
Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’).  The Company ﬁnancial 
statements present information about the company as a separate entity and not about the Group.  The consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the EU and applicable law (IFRSs).  The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 124 to 129.  The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the 
Board of Directors on 1 March 2012.
The following relevant standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during 2011:
 IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011)
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS24 that clariﬁes the deﬁnitions of a related party.  The new deﬁnitions emphasise a 
symmetrical view of related party relationships and clarify the circumstances in which persons and key management 
personnel affect related party relationships of an entity. The adoption of the amendment had no impact on the ﬁnancial 
position or performance of the Group.
 IAS32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ (Amendment adopted from 1 February 2011)
The IASB issued an amendment that alters the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial liability in IAS32 to enable entities to classify rights 
issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments.  The amendment is applicable if the rights are given pro rata 
to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entity’s non-derivative equity instruments, to acquire a ﬁxed number 
of the entity’s own equity instruments for a ﬁxed amount in any currency.  The adoption of the amendment had no effect 
on the ﬁnancial position or performance of the Group.
 IFRIC14 ‘IAS19-The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction’  
(Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011)
The amendment removes an unintended consequence of the interpretation when an entity is subject to minimum funding 
requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.  The amendment permits a 
prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be recognised as a pension asset.  The adoption of the amendment  
had no effect on the ﬁnancial position or performance of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs
In May 2010, the IASB issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing 
inconsistencies and clarifying wording.  There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.  The adoption of the 
following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies, but no impact on the ﬁnancial position or performance 
of the Group.
 IFRS3 ‘Business combinations’: The measurement options available for non-controlling interest (NCI) were amended.  
Only components of NCI that constitute a present ownership interest that entitles their holder to a proportionate share 
of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation are entitled to the choice of measurement basis; namely at either fair 
value or at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets.  All other 
components are to be measured at their acquisition date fair value. This amendment was effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2011 but the Group adopted it from 1 January 2011 and changed its accounting policy 
accordingly. 
 IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’: The amendment was intended to simplify the disclosures provided by 
reducing the volume of disclosures around collateral held and improving disclosures by requiring qualitative information 
to put the quantitative information in context.  The Group reﬂects the revised disclosure requirements in note 18.
 IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’: The amendment clariﬁes that an entity may present an analysis of each 
component of other comprehensive income either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the ﬁnancial 
statements.  The Group provides this analysis in the statement of changes in equity.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 76
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other amendments, resulting from improvements to IFRSs, to the following standards did not have any impact on the 
accounting policies, ﬁnancial position or performance of the Group:
 IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ (Contingent consideration arising from business combinations prior to the adoption of 
IFRS3 (as revised in 2008))
 IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ (Unreplaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment awards)
 IAS27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’
 IAS34 ‘Interim Financial Statements’
The following interpretation and amendments to interpretations did not have any impact on the accounting policies, 
ﬁnancial position or performance of the Group:
 IFRIC13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ (Amendment - determining the fair value of award credits)
 IFRIC19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments’
The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2011:
 IAS1 ‘Financial Statement Presentation’ – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendment)
The amendments to IAS1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.  Items that could  
be reclassiﬁed (or ‘recycled’) to proﬁt or loss at a future point in time (for example, upon derecognition or settlement) 
would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassiﬁed.  The amendment affects presentation only and 
therefore will have no impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial position or performance.  The amendment becomes effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
 IAS19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ (Amendment)
The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS19.  These include a fundamental change which will affect the basis  
by which the Group apportions ﬁnance income between the income statement and other comprehensive income from  
1 January 2013.  Had this change been effective for 2011 we estimate that the ﬁnancing cost would have increased by 
around £16m.  The main impact on the Group of the other changes to IAS19 is to increase the information required to be 
disclosed. 
 IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation and Measurement’
IFRS9 as issued reﬂects the ﬁrst phase of the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classiﬁcation 
and measurement of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities as deﬁned in IAS39. The effective date of the standard has 
recently been revised so that it will now only apply for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, although 
earlier adoption is encouraged. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of 
ﬁnancial assets. The adoption of the ﬁrst phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classiﬁcation and measurement of the 
Group’s ﬁnancial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classiﬁcation and measurements of ﬁnancial liabilities.   
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
 IFRS10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
IFRS10 replaces the portion of IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.  It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. 
IFRS10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities. The changes 
introduced by IFRS10 will require management to exercise signiﬁcant judgment to determine which entities are controlled, 
and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS27. This 
standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Restatement
In accordance with IFRS3, following the ﬁnalisation of the balances relating to the Zimmermann & Jansen acquisition 
reported in the 2010 consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the 2010 balance sheet has been restated. The details of this 
restatement are set out in note 3.  
In the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, comparatives have been restated to reclassify a £2.7m outﬂow for settlement 
of currency derivatives as an investing activity. This was previously included in the line item for the effect of exchange rate 
ﬂuctuations on cash held, which has been increased by an equivalent amount. 
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 77
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
a) Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (which is the Company’s functional currency), rounded to 
the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues which are rounded to the nearest whole million.  They are prepared on 
the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments; available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets; ﬁnancial assets and liabilities identiﬁed as hedged items; and assets 
and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and 
fair value less costs to sell.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
b) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.  
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.  Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The nature of the markets in which the Group operates leads, from time to time, to a variety of possible legal and other 
claims from customers.  Whenever such matters are notiﬁed to the Group, they are investigated and any liability which 
results is recognised in the accounts as soon as a reliable estimate can be made.  Where it is not possible to make a 
reliable estimate of any future liability, a contingent liability is disclosed. 
The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses.  The sale agreements contained various warranties 
and indemnities.  In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, 
sometimes contingent on future events.  At the time of disposal, the accounts reﬂect the best estimate of the likely future 
impact of these agreements.  Estimates are updated at each reporting date to reﬂect the latest information available.  
Information about other areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that 
have the most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements are described in the notes 
which follow, on Revenue; Acquisitions; Intangible assets; Deferred tax assets and liabilities; Financial risk 
management; Employee beneﬁts; Share-based payments; Provisions for liabilities and charges and Contingencies.  
c) Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls (its 
subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December.
 Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, 
and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.  Control comprises the power to govern the 
ﬁnancial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain beneﬁt from its activities and is achieved through  
direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of 
contractual agreement.  The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting 
policies.  All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised proﬁts arising from them, are eliminated in full.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.   
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the 
subsidiary; (ii) derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) derecognises the cumulative 
translation differences recorded in equity; (iv) recognises the fair value of the consideration received; (v) recognises  
the fair value of any investment retained; (vi) recognises any surplus or deﬁcit in proﬁt or loss; (vii) reclassiﬁes the 
parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to proﬁt or loss or retained 
earnings, as appropriate. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent 
company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (the partnership).  Non-controlling 
interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners 
of the parent.  Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deﬁcit 
balance.
d) Revenue
i) Sale of products
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and 
volume rebates when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable 
measurement is possible.  No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there 
are signiﬁcant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the 
contract of sale.  Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as 
revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as deﬁned by the International 
Chamber of Commerce Ofﬁcial Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms.  Sales made outside of Incoterms 2010 
are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
ii) Services
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance 
sheet date.  The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate 
customer.  Installation fees are recognised as revenue by reference to the stage of completion on the installation 
unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
iii) Construction contracts
Revenue from signiﬁcant machinery or valve contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the 
contract by reference to the speciﬁc contract terms unless the contract contains discrete components separately 
transferring risks and rewards to the customer.  Where separate components are present, revenue is recognised on 
each component in accordance with the policy on the sale of products.
e) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items 
would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance.
The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these ﬁnancial statements:
 Restructuring costs, which comprise signiﬁcant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the 
cost of signiﬁcant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities;
 The employee beneﬁt curtailment gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual;
 The amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible ﬁxed assets;
 Gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative ﬁnancial instruments. 
The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items, together with the exceptional tax charge in 
connection with the restructuring. 
f) Financial income and expense
Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement.  Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it 
accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.  Dividend income is recognised in the income statement 
on the date that the dividend is declared.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the 
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) 
c) Basis of consolidation (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 79
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
interest related element of derivatives and losses on ﬁnancial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.  
The interest expense component of ﬁnance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective 
interest rate method.
Net ﬁnance expense relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed 
interest on employee beneﬁt plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee beneﬁt plan assets. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective 
assets.  All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.  Borrowing costs consist of interest and other 
costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
g) Income tax
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years.  
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.  Deferred tax is not 
recognised for the following temporary differences:  the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt, and 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  Deferred tax is measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the temporary difference can be utilised. 
h) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Where applicable, on initial classiﬁcation as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.  Impairment losses on the initial classiﬁcation of assets as held for 
sale are included in proﬁt or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are impairment losses on subsequent 
remeasurement and any reversal thereof.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business 
that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
i) Foreign currencies
i) Foreign currency transactions
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates  
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.  Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at 
the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reﬂected in proﬁt before taxation in the income statement.   
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date.
ii) Foreign operations
The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of 
exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, 
are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.  
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity.  
Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the 
translation reserve.  When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation 
reserve is transferred to proﬁt or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 80
j) Financial instruments and fair value hedging
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs unless the instrument 
is a derivative not designated as a hedge (see below).  Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the 
instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39:   
 Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions are classiﬁed as 
‘available for sale assets’ under IAS39, and held at fair value.  Short term borrowings and overdrafts are classiﬁed as 
ﬁnancial liabilities at amortised cost.
 Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and 
any embedded derivatives, are classiﬁed as ‘fair value through proﬁt or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated as 
hedges.  Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at fair value; attributable transaction costs are 
recognised in proﬁt or loss when incurred.  Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such 
derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net ﬁnancial income or expense.
 Long term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.  Where the long term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is 
regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge.
 Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
 Trade payables are stated at cost.
 Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
 Available for sale ﬁnancial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except 
for impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement.
k)  Other hedging   
i) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, ﬁnancial commitments or forecast transactions
Where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity 
price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or ﬁnancial commitment or a forecast transaction, no 
hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is 
recognised in net ﬁnancial income or expense. 
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, 
which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the 
segmental revenues and operating proﬁt of the relevant business segment.
ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Where a foreign currency liability or derivative ﬁnancial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net 
investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability 
or changes in the fair value of the ﬁnancial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is 
effective.  The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its 
net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the 
debt designated as a hedge and the relevant ﬁnancial instrument. 
l) Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.  The cost of an acquisition is measured  
as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree.  The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or  
at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.  
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or 
volatility meets the deﬁnition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy (e) above. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classiﬁcation 
and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the 
acquisition date.  This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.  
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability  
will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in proﬁt or loss or in other comprehensive income.  If the contingent 
consideration is classiﬁed as equity, it is not remeasured until it is ﬁnally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the 
consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in  
the acquiree) over the net identiﬁable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business 
combination.  Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such  
as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for 
separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.  Identiﬁable intangible 
assets are recognised separately from goodwill.  Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised 
if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the 
non-controlling interest (and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of 
the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is 
recognised in proﬁt and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.  For the purpose of 
impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that are expected to beneﬁt from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.  Each unit or group of 
units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored 
for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of,  
the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when 
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.  Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured 
based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
m) Intangible assets
Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between acquired intangible assets and 
non-acquired intangible assets. Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as 
described in note (e) of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility. The accounting policy for goodwill 
is described in note 1 above.
i) Research and development    
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge 
and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research ﬁndings are applied to a plan or design for the production 
of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided beneﬁts are probable, cost can 
be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the 
Group has sufﬁcient resources and intention to complete development.  The expenditure capitalised includes the 
cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.  Other development expenditure is recognised  
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.  Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’) and is included 
in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on its origin.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 82
m) Intangible assets (continued)
ii) Software development costs    
Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host computer equipment are capitalised on initial 
recognition as intangible assets at cost.  Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on development 
of the asset to bring it into use.  Following initial recognition, software development costs are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’) and are 
included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin. 
iii) Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets
Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business 
combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future beneﬁts accruing 
to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.  Expenditure on other 
internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iv) Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the 
anticipated beneﬁt) over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.  Amortisation commences from the date the 
intangible asset becomes available for use.  The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows:
 Capitalised development costs 5 years
 Software development costs Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)
 Customer relationships  Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)
 Order book   Period of the outstanding order book
 Other intangible assets  Life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) 
n) Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment 
losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’).
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are 
accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.  Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for 
clearly identiﬁable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers and are included in 
plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless such a basis is not aligned with the 
anticipated beneﬁt) so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful 
lives within the following ranges:
 Freehold buildings  25 to 50 years
 Plant and equipment  3 to 20 years
o) Leased assets
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases.  
Plant and equipment acquired by way of ﬁnance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) 
and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’).
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the period of the lease unless a different 
systematic method is more appropriate under the terms of the lease.  The majority of leasing transactions entered into 
by the Group are operating leases.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 83
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
p) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  In respect of work in progress and ﬁnished goods, 
cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
q) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.  Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand 
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the statement of cash ﬂows.
r) Impairment
The carrying values of the Group’s non-ﬁnancial assets other than inventories (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’)  
and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash generating unit is 
estimated.  An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit 
exceeds its recoverable amount.  Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
i) Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than ﬁnancial assets held at fair value is calculated as the 
present value of expected future cash ﬂows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. 
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.  
In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash ﬂows generated for  
each cash-generating unit (based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long 
term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with long term GDP growth).  These are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset.  Management believe that this approach, including the use of  
the indeﬁnite cash ﬂow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical experience and because it is one of 
the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities.  For an asset that does not 
generate largely independent cash inﬂows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating 
unit to which the asset belongs. 
ii) Reversals of impairment
As required by IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale ﬁnancial assets is 
non-reversible.  In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are 
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the 
recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been 
recognised.
s) Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders or by 
the subsidiary’s shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 84
t) Employee beneﬁts 
i)  Deﬁned contribution pension plans 
    Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income 
statement as incurred. 
ii) Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and 
prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs 
and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.  The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high 
quality corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s 
obligations.  The calculation is performed by a qualiﬁed actuary using the projected unit credit method.  When the 
calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised 
past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to 
the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.
When the beneﬁts of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased beneﬁt relating to past service by employees 
is recognised in proﬁt or loss in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the 
beneﬁts become vested.  To the extent that the beneﬁts vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in 
the income statement.  Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the 
statement of comprehensive income.
iii) Long-term service and other post-employment beneﬁts
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other post-employment beneﬁts, other than pension 
plans, is the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior 
periods.  The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value 
and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.  The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high 
quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations.
iv) Equity and equity-related compensation beneﬁts
The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation beneﬁts as set out in note 20.  The fair value 
of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.  
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, proﬁtability and sales growth 
targets).  Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected 
to become exercisable.  The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement.    
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) 
and share premium when the options are exercised.
u) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events;  
it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably 
estimated.  Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required to settle the present 
obligation at the balance sheet date.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and 
the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.  Segmental information
Segmental information is presented in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for each of the Group’s operating  
segments.  The operating segment reporting format reﬂects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures.  
Inter-segment revenue is insigniﬁcant. 
The Group includes the following ﬁve operating segments and activities: 
Fluid Controls          
Severe Service
Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for 
power generation plants, oil & gas producers, petrochemical, iron & steel plants, and other process industries.
Fluid Power
Design, manufacture and supply of motion and ﬂuid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original 
equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries.
Indoor Climate
Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves for large commercial 
buildings, thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings and water conditioning equipment. 
Retail Dispense
Beverage Dispense
Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising 
equipment for brand owners and retailers.
Merchandising
Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers.
Information regarding the performance of each operating segment is included below.  Performance is measured based  
on segmental operating proﬁt which is the proﬁt reported by the businesses, stated before exceptional items including 
restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses and the employee 
beneﬁt curtailment on the UK scheme.  Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic 
hedges against the impact on proﬁtability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise 
the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins.  Segmental operating proﬁts are therefore charged/credited with  
the impact of these contracts.  These contracts do not meet the technical provisions required under IAS39 for hedge 
accounting therefore gains and losses are reversed out of segmental proﬁt and are recorded in net ﬁnancial income  
and expense for the purposes of the statutory consolidated income statement.
 Segmental Segmental 
 revenue  operating proﬁt
  2011   2010   2011  2010  
 £m £m  £m £m
Fluid Controls 1,649    1,433   307.6  262.4 
Severe Service 572   452   88.9  78.4  
Fluid Power 767   685   150.5  113.7  
Indoor Climate   310    296   68.2  70.3 
Retail Dispense 486   484   66.5  57.3 
Beverage Dispense 317    315   41.1  32.0  
Merchandising 169    169   25.4  25.3 
Total 2,135   1,917 374.1  319.7
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 86
Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating proﬁt  
 Revenue Proﬁt
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 £m £m £m £m
Segmental result   2,135   1,917  374.1  319.7 
Reversal of economic hedge contract gains  (4)   (6) (4.1) (2.7) 
Restructuring costs     (23.5) (16.0)  
Acquired intangible amortisation     (32.3) (7.0)
Employee beneﬁt curtailment - UK scheme     -  15.1  
Total revenue/operating proﬁt reported   2,131    1,911   314.2   309.1  
Net ﬁnancial expense     (12.8) (3.0)
Proﬁt before tax - continuing operations     301.4  306.1 
 
Balance sheet
 
Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet
 Assets Liabilities
    Restated     Restated  
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 £m £m £m £m
Segment assets and liabilities 1,466.8   1,405.9   469.3  418.0  
Corporate items  8.0   12.1   87.6  77.7   
Employee beneﬁts  1.9  1.6   205.7  201.0  
Investments 20.4  19.2     
Funds/borrowings 147.9   122.9   256.1  268.3  
Net taxation and others 87.8   61.1   99.9  82.0  
Per Group balance sheet 1,732.8   1,622.8    1,118.6   1,047.0  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.  Segmental information (continued)
 Segment Segment 
 assets  liabilities
    Restated     Restated  
  2011   2010   2011  2010  
 £m £m  £m £m
Fluid Controls  1,183.4    1,130.9   377.9  337.1  
Severe Service  595.5    556.6   201.6  167.6   
Fluid Power  436.0   426.5   114.9  106.1   
Indoor Climate    151.9   147.8   61.4  63.4 
Retail Dispense  283.4    275.0  91.4  80.9  
Beverage Dispense  137.3   137.1  58.6  53.0   
Merchandising  146.1   137.9   32.8  27.9 
Total  1,466.8    1,405.9  469.3  418.0   GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other information
 
 
*  Included within depreciation and amortisation for Severe Service is £28.9m (2010: £3.1m) amortisation of acquired intangibles  
Included within depreciation and amortisation for Fluid Power is £3.1m (2010: £3.4m) amortisation of acquired intangibles  
Included within depreciation and amortisation for Indoor Climate is £0.3m (2010: £0.2m) amortisation of acquired intangibles  
Included within depreciation and amortisation for Beverage Dispense is £nil (2010: £0.3m) amortisation of acquired intangibles 
Revenue by geographical destination
     2011 2010 
     £m £m
UK 136  141  
Germany 296  261  
Rest of Europe 577  542  
USA 580  543  
Asia/Paciﬁc 319  285  
Rest of World 227  145 
Total segmental revenue 2,135  1,917  
Reversal of economic hedge contract gains (4)  (6)
Total     2,131  1,911 
No individual customer, or group of customers under common control, represents more than 10% of Group revenue 
(2010: none).
Segmental analysis of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
      Restated 
     2011 2010 
     £m £m
UK         103.7  99.4  
Germany       164.2  181.0  
Rest of Europe       187.2  186.5  
USA        232.1  232.5   
Asia/Paciﬁc       46.6  47.2  
Rest of World       11.7  14.0 
Total     745.5  760.6 
 Restructuring    Capital Depreciation &
 costs expenditure amortisation*
   2011   2010   2011  2010   2011  2010  
  £m £m  £m £m  £m £m
Fluid Controls   21.4  10.7  50.7  41.9  70.7  44.4 
Severe Service  11.9  4.8  11.4  20.0  39.2  11.2   
Fluid Power   5.5  3.1  26.2  15.0  23.3  25.9   
Indoor Climate     4.0  2.8  13.1  6.9  8.2  7.3 
Retail Dispense  2.1  5.3  8.0  8.7  8.8  11.3  
Beverage Dispense   2.1  5.0  5.3  4.9  6.3  8.3    
Merchandising   - 0.3  2.7  3.8  2.5  3.0
Subtotal  23.5  16.0  58.7  50.6  79.5  55.7  
Corporate   -   -  0.2  0.2  0.5  0.5 
Total   23.5  16.0  58.9  50.8  80.0  56.2  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. Acquisitions
3.1  Acquisitions subsequent to the year-end
Remosa
On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired Remosa SpA and related companies (collectively Remosa), a leading 
engineering business specialising in valves and related ﬂow control products for severe applications, for an enterprise 
value of approximately £84.7m (€100m), being cash consideration of £69.8m (€82.4m) and debt assumed of 
approximately £14.9m (€17.6m).  The consideration was funded out of IMI’s existing resources and banking facilities. 
Founded in 1955 by Giulio Mambrini, Remosa is a severe service valve business based in Sardinia, Italy and was 
privately-owned prior to acquisition.  Remosa makes specialist valves used in critical applications in the downstream 
petrochemical sector and also has an established valve servicing business.  
The main Remosa manufacturing facility is located in Sardinia.  The senior management and all of its 360 employees  
will be transferring with the business.  In the 2011 calendar year, Remosa’s unaudited sales were £40.7m (€48m) and 
underlying EBITDA was £6.8m (€8m). 
Remosa will join IMI’s Severe Service division and is highly complementary with Zimmermann & Jansen, which IMI 
acquired at the end of 2010, and will strengthen the Group’s presence in the downstream petrochemical market.   
The use of IMI’s global sales and aftermarket infrastructure is expected to improve Remosa’s geographic penetration, 
notably in North America, and develop its aftermarket offering.  Remosa already has a strong presence in emerging 
markets, including South America and Asia, with over 50% of sales coming from those markets.  
InterAtiva
On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired Grupo InterAtiva (InterAtiva), a Brazilian isolation valve business, from its 
founding partners for an initial cash consideration of £22m and contingent consideration up to a maximum of £21.2m  
to be paid based on its performance over the next three years.  The consideration is being funded out of IMI’s existing 
resources and banking facilities.  
Founded in 1992 by Wilson Gabriel and Mauro Bilbao, InterAtiva was privately-owned and designs, assembles and 
distributes isolation valves to various end-markets including oil and gas, sugar and ethanol production, and water 
treatment.  It currently leases a 9,000sq metre facility located in Sorocaba, near Sao Paolo and employs 70 people who 
are all transferring with the business.  In the 2011 calendar year, InterAtiva’s unaudited sales were £12m and underlying 
EBITDA was £3m.  All of the 2011 sales were in the fast-growing South American markets.  
InterAtiva will join IMI’s Severe Service division and has existing strong customer relationships and approvals in Brazil  
with the major engineering, procurement and construction ﬁrms and also with the major oil and gas companies.  With an 
experienced management team, and capacity for ﬁnal assembly, it will be a strong platform for IMI’s existing severe 
service isolation valve brands, including Orton and TruFlo Rona, to enter this market.  
Given the proximity of these acquisitions to the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements, the initial accounting for 
them is not yet complete and consequently disclosures regarding, inter alia, the fair value of the assets and liabilities 
acquired, the fair value of the consideration and the amounts allocated to goodwill and intangible assets have not been 
given, but will be included in the Group’s 2012 Interim Report. 
3.2  Acquisitions during the year
TH Jansen
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH (THJ) on 17 October 2011.  Consideration 
of £10.3m, including the overdraft acquired of £1.3m, is net of £2.2m due from the vendor, which is subject to agreement 
through the completion accounts process.  Net debt of £2.5m was taken on as part of the acquisition.  Assuming that  
the acquisition of THJ had been completed on 1 January 2011, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and 
segmental operating proﬁt would have been £2,150m and £375.4m respectively.  Segmental revenue of £3.4m and 
segmental operating proﬁt of £0.3m for the period since acquisition has been reported within the Severe Service segment. 
THJ designs, manufactures and sells isolation valves for the iron & steel industry from its manufacturing facility near 
Saarbrücken in Germany.  Similar to IMI’s existing Severe Service businesses, THJ’s products are typically custom-
engineered for speciﬁc, critical, severe service applications with signiﬁcant ongoing aftermarket requirements. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fair value of the net assets acquired was £7.7m, resulting in goodwill of £1.3m.  The net assets comprised customer 
relationships of £6.4m, an order book of £1.1m, property, plant and equipment of £2.9m, working capital balances of 
£3.3m (including trade and other receivables of £3.7m) less £6.0m of net debt and deferred tax liabilities. 
The methodology for arriving at fair values, intangible asset values and residual goodwill is described in the accounting 
policies in note 1 to these ﬁnancial statements.  The goodwill recognised on acquisition principally relates to skills present 
within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and an element of the synergies available when the business 
is integrated with the Zimmermann & Jansen (Z&J) business acquired in 2010. 
The fair value adjustments relate principally to the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, 
recognition of intangible assets (which comprise the value of non-contractual customer relationships and the order book 
at acquisition) and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identiﬁable net assets from cost to fair value.
Transaction costs of £0.5m have been expensed and are included within administrative expenses. 
The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration for THJ have been provisionally determined at 
31 December 2011.  Completion accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the fair value 
of assets acquired may arise when these are ﬁnalised.
Cash ﬂows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: 
 Cash ﬂows 
 from acquisition  
 of controlling 
 interests 
 £m
Purchase consideration:   
Cash  11.2  
Receivable from vendor (2.2)
Total purchase consideration for THJ  9.0  
Overdraft acquired   1.3  
Receivable from vendor  2.2 
Gross amount paid on acquisition of THJ  12.5  
Finalisation of consideration for acquisition of Z&J (3.6)
Included in cash ﬂow from investing activities  8.9  
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash ﬂows from operating activities)  0.5 
Total cash ﬂow on acquisition of controlling interests  9.4 
 
3.3  Prior year acquisitions
On 31 December 2010 the Group acquired Z&J for total purchase consideration of £124.4m, net of a £6.3m receivable 
(subsequently £6.4m due to exchange rate movements) from the vendor for amounts to be ﬁnalised in the completion 
accounts.  Total identiﬁable net assets were £75.0m, resulting in goodwill of £49.4m.  These amounts were deemed 
provisional at this date.  During the ﬁrst half of this year, these provisional amounts were ﬁnalised, resulting in an increase 
to consideration of £2.8m, represented by increases to trade and other receivables of £0.4m, decreases in trade and other 
payables of £0.4m, an increase in the associated deferred tax liabilities of £0.2m and an increase to goodwill of £2.2m. 
The 2010 balance sheet has been restated accordingly. 
During 2010 the Group also paid £1.6m in deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of 70% of Pneumatex AG 
originally completed on 28 December 2007.
3.4  Non-controlling interests
The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (the partnership) was established during the year ended 31 December 2010.   
The IMI Pension Fund agreed to invest a special contribution of £48.6m made by the Group into the partnership, giving 
them rights to receive income of £4.4m per year for twenty years.  The partnership is fully consolidated in these accounts 
with the pension fund’s interest presented within equity in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity 
attributable to the owners of the parent.  The investment valuation at 31 December 2011 was provided by the Trustee, 
based on an independent valuation prepared for the Trustee in June 2011. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4.  Operating proﬁt   
  2011 2010 
 £m   £m 
Revenue (i) 2,130.5   1,911.3  
Cost of sales (ii) (1,228.4)  (1,097.4)
Gross proﬁt 902.1   813.9  
Selling and distribution costs (iii) (245.4)  (234.0) 
Administrative expenses (iv) (342.5)  (270.8)
Operating proﬁt 314.2   309.1 
 
i) includes reversal of £4.4m economic hedge contract gains (2010: gain £5.8m) 
ii) includes £9.1m restructuring costs (2010: £1.9m) and a reversal of £0.3m economic hedge contract gains (2010: £3.1m) 
iii) includes £1.0m restructuring costs (2010: £2.7m) 
iv) includes £13.4m restructuring costs (2010: £11.4m), £32.3m of acquired intangible amortisation (2010: £7.0m) and £nil 
in respect of the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual (2010: £15.1m credit).
Total restructuring costs of £23.5m (2010: £16.0m) were incurred during the year, which are analysed by division in note 2.  
These costs principally related to the relocation of ﬂuid controls manufacturing activities to low-cost manufacturing 
locations, particularly within the Severe Service division. 
5.  Discontinued operations
There was no income or expense in respect of discontinued operations during 2011. 
In 2010 the General Court of the European Union issued its judgement on the Group’s appeal against the ﬁne levied in 
2005 in respect of allegations of anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper tube.  The result of 
the appeal was a reduction in the ﬁne of £5.4m.  This income was shown as discontinued operations as it related to a 
business that was sold in 2002.
Also in 2010, consideration of £7.4m was received in relation to the disposal of Polypipe during 2005 and was credited 
within proﬁt from discontinued operations.  No tax was chargeable on the discontinued items in 2010.  The basic and 
diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2010 was 4.0p.  GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6.  Net ﬁnancial income and expense
  2011   2010  
  Financial   Financial  
 Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total 
Recognised in the income statement £m £m £m  £m £m £m
Interest income on bank deposits 3.3    3.3  5.2    5.2  
Financial instruments at fair value              
   through proﬁt or loss:             
   Designated hedges   0.7  0.7   0.5  0.5  
   Other economic hedges              
   - current year trading   8.1  8.1   9.6  9.6  
   - future year transactions   5.1  5.1   10.4  10.4 
Financial income 3.3  13.9  17.2  5.2  20.5  25.7 
Interest expense on interest bearing  
  loans and borrowings  (20.4)   (20.4)  (20.7)   (20.7) 
Interest cost capitalised 0.2    0.2  0.2    0.2  
Financial instruments at fair value              
   through proﬁt or loss:             
   Designated hedges   (0.8) (0.8)   (0.4) (0.4) 
   Other economic hedges             
   - current year trading   (9.0) (9.0)   (7.3) (7.3) 
   - future year transactions   (6.2) (6.2)   (0.5) (0.5)
Financial expense (20.2) (16.0) (36.2)  (20.5) (8.2) (28.7)
Net ﬁnance expense relating to  
  deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes   6.2    6.2  -     -
Net ﬁnancial (expense)/income (10.7) (2.1) (12.8)  (15.3) 12.3  (3.0)
 
Included in ﬁnancial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for 
management reporting purposes (see note 2) are included in segmental operating proﬁt.  For statutory purposes these are 
required to be shown within net ﬁnancial income and expense above.  Gains or losses for future year transactions are in 
respect of ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash ﬂows. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6.  Net ﬁnancial income and expense (continued)
Recognised in other comprehensive income   2011 2010 
   £m £m
Foreign currency translation differences   (9.7)  16.9  
Change in fair value of other ﬁnancial assets   1.2   (2.5) 
Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges   1.9   (6.5) 
Income tax on ﬁnancial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity   (0.2)  0.9 
Financial income/(expense) recognised directly in equity (net of tax)   (6.8)  8.8
Recognised in:    
Hedging reserve   1.4   (4.7) 
Translation reserve   (9.8)  15.7  
Retained earnings   1.2  (2.5) 
Non-controlling interests   0.4   0.3 
   (6.8)  8.8
 
7.   The following have been charged/(credited) in arriving at proﬁt before tax 
   2011 2010 
   £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   43.6  44.8  
Amortisation of acquired intangible ﬁxed assets   32.3  7.0  
Amortisation of non-acquired intangible ﬁxed assets   4.1   4.4  
Research and development *   38.8   36.9 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets   (2.5)  3.8  
Loss on disposal of investments   -   0.1  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts  0.2   0.2  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:       
   The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation    2.7  2.4  
   Other services pursuant to legislation    -   0.1  
   Tax services   0.2   0.1  
   Other services   0.1   0.2  
Rentals under operating leases:       
   Property rents   21.4   20.7  
   Hire of plant and machinery   9.1   8.0  
Exchange (gains)/losses on operating activities net of hedging arrangements   (1.3)  1.0 
 
* In addition to the research and development costs above, £4.4m (2010: £5.0m) has been capitalised in respect of 
development costs and is included in other non-acquired intangible assets in note 11.  GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. Taxation
 2011 2010
 £m  £m £m  £m
a) Recognised in the income statement:     
Current tax expense    
UK corporation tax:     
Current tax on income for the year (0.4)    9.3   
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.2)    0.2  
  (1.6)    9.5    
Overseas tax:     
Current tax on income for the year 86.7     58.2   
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1     0.1  
  86.8     58.3 
Total current tax  85.2     67.8
Deferred tax    
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  12.5     24.7 
Total income tax expense  97.7     92.5  
b) Total current and deferred tax recognised directly in equity:     
On equity-settled transactions  (1.6)   (4.8) 
On gains and losses of ﬁnancial instruments  0.5    (1.8) 
On actuarial losses  (15.5)  (3.4) 
On foreign currency translation differences  (0.3)    0.9  
  (16.9)    (9.1)
c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate   
  2011   2010 
 Before Exceptional  Before Exceptional 
 exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total 
 £m £m  £m £m  £m  £m
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations  363.4  (62.0) 301.4  304.4  1.7  306.1  
Income tax using the Company’s domestic              
   rate of tax of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 96.3  (16.4) 79.9  85.2  0.5  85.7  
Effects of:             
   Non-deductible items 1.3  1.2  2.5  0.1  1.7  1.8  
   Exceptional tax charge on restructuring -  11.0  11.0  -  -  -  
   Utilisation of tax losses  (1.0) -  (1.0) (0.1) -  (0.1) 
   Current year losses for which no deferred              
      tax asset has been recognised 0.4  -  0.4  1.8  -  1.8  
   Differing tax rates in different jurisdictions 6.1  0.1  6.2  4.7  (1.0) 3.7     
   Over provided in prior years (1.3) -  (1.3) (0.4) -  (0.4)
Total tax in income statement on  
    continuing operations 101.8  (4.1) 97.7  91.3  1.2  92.5 
Effective rate of tax 28.0% 6.6% 32.4% 30.0% 70.6% 30.2%
 
The weighted average rate of corporation tax for the calendar year in the UK is 26.5% (2010: 28.0%).  As the Group 
operates worldwide it is subject to several factors which may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of 
proﬁtability in different jurisdictions in which the Group may or may not have offsetting tax losses and the various tax rates 
imposed in those jurisdictions.
The tax credit on exceptional items of £4.1m (2010: charge of £1.2m) includes a tax credit of £15.1m on the exceptional 
costs of £62.0m together with a tax charge of £11.0m in connection with certain of the restructuring activities. 
Changes to the main rate of UK Corporation Tax were proposed in the Budget of 23 March 2011 to reduce the main rate of 
UK Corporation Tax to 26% from 1 April 2011 and by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. The further reduction of the 
main rate to 25% from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 19 July 2011. The other proposed reductions had not been 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently are not reﬂected in these ﬁnancial statements.  
No tax was chargeable on the discontinued operations in 2010.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Earnings per ordinary share
The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to 
satisfy employee share schemes, was 317.0m, 322.5m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options (2010: 319.0m, 
323.8m diluted).  Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of £200.4m (2010: £224.7m).   
As there is no income from discontinued operations in 2011, the basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations have also been calculated on earnings of £200.4m (2010: £211.9m).
The directors consider that adjusted earnings per share ﬁgures, using earnings as calculated below, give a more 
meaningful indication of the underlying performance because the quantum, the one-off nature, or the volatility of the items 
adjusted would otherwise distort it.
   2011 2010 
   £m  £m
Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations   203.7   213.6 
Non-controlling interests   (3.3) (1.7)
   200.4   211.9 
Charges/(credits) included in proﬁt for the year:    
    Restructuring costs   23.5   16.0   
    Employee beneﬁt curtailment - UK scheme   -   (15.1)  
    Acquired intangible amortisation   32.3   7.0   
    Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses   6.2   (9.6)
   262.4   210.2  
 
Taxation (credit)/charge on exceptional items   (4.1) 1.2 
Earnings for adjusted EPS   258.3   211.4 
Weighted average number of shares   317.0m  319.0m
Adjusted EPS   81.5p  66.3p
Diluted adjusted EPS   80.1p  65.3p
 
10.  Employee information    
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 
   2011 2010 
Fluid Controls   11,251    9,992   
Retail Dispense   2,970   2,988   
Corporate   182   184  
Total   14,403   13,164 
 
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff.  As Z&J was acquired on 31 December 
2010, these employees are also excluded from 2010 ﬁgures.
The aggregate employment cost charged to operating proﬁt for the year was:   
   £m  £m 
Wages and salaries   498.8   456.3  
Share-based payments (see note 20)   8.9   5.5   
Social security costs   83.1   70.9   
Pension costs *   12.8   0.8  
Total   603.6   533.5
 
* In 2011, pension costs above exclude £9.6m (including £1.2m National Insurance contributions) for committed payments to 
be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise and the associated settlement gain of £11.7m 
(both included in note 19) because these amounts are in respect of former employees. In 2010, pension costs include the 
curtailment beneﬁt of £15.1m relating to the closure of the UK pension scheme as this related to current employees. 
The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of 
the Remuneration Report. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.  Intangible assets
   Acquired Other  Other  
  customer acquired  non-acquired  
 Goodwill relationships intangibles Sub total intangibles Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost             
As at 1 January 2010 341.3  44.6  38.3  424.2  41.0  465.2  
Exchange adjustments 9.9  0.1  1.9  11.9  1.3  13.2  
Acquisitions (restated) 51.6  54.5  22.8  128.9  -  128.9  
Additions -  -  -  -  5.0  5.0 
As at 31 December 2010 (restated) 402.8  99.2  63.0  565.0  47.3  612.3  
Exchange adjustments 0.1  (1.8) (0.5) (2.2) (0.1) (2.3) 
Acquisitions 1.3  6.4  1.1  8.8  -  8.8  
Additions -  -  -  -  6.8  6.8 
As at 31 December 2011 404.2  103.8  63.6  571.6  54.0  625.6
Amortisation             
As at 1 January 2010   21.0  33.1  54.1  24.7  78.8  
Exchange adjustments   -  1.7  1.7  0.7  2.4  
Impairment   -  -  -  0.4  0.4  
Amortisation for year   5.8  1.2  7.0  4.4  11.4 
As at 31 December 2010    26.8   36.0   62.8   30.2   93.0  
 
Exchange adjustments   (0.4) (0.5)  (0.9) (0.1) (1.0)  
Amortisation for year   10.6  21.7   32.3  4.1   36.4 
As at 31 December 2011    37.0   57.2   94.2   34.2   128.4 
             
NBV at 31 December 2010 (restated) 402.8  72.4  27.0  502.2  17.1  519.3 
             
NBV at 31 December 2011 404.2  66.8  6.4  477.4  19.8  497.2 
Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £6m (2010: £6m).  
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount based on value in use.  Value in use is calculated 
based on the discounted cash ﬂows of the cash generating unit being tested for impairment.  The key assumptions in the 
discounted cash ﬂow calculations are the growth rate and the discount rate.  The growth rate is based on the 3 year long 
term forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity at 2.25%, which is consistent with the long term growth rates of the industry in 
which the Group operates. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition on which 
the goodwill arose.  The Group has 34 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated but these cash generating units 
neither have a signiﬁcant proportion of the total goodwill allocated to them, nor is this the case after any aggregations of 
cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. 
Pre-tax discount rates of between 10% and 15% are applied in determining the recoverable amounts of cash generating 
units.  The discount rates are estimated based on the Group’s cost of capital, risk adjusted for individual unit’s 
circumstances.  
The Group’s estimates of impairments of goodwill are most sensitive to the increases in the discount rate used and the long 
term growth rates used in the forecast cash ﬂows in addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves.  These growth 
rates vary signiﬁcantly depending on the circumstances of each cash generating unit and have been based on the business 
reviews carried out in the year.  
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the proﬁt 
and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to £364m. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12.  Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in the  
    Land & Plant & course of 
Cost   buildings equipment construction Total 
   £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2010    186.5   671.2   14.9   872.6  
Exchange adjustments    2.0   11.3   -   13.3  
Acquisitions    6.0   5.2   0.3   11.5  
Additions    3.3   28.2   14.3   45.8  
Disposals    (9.2)  (35.6)  -   (44.8) 
Transfers    1.0   8.9   (9.9)  - 
As at 31 December 2010    189.6   689.2   19.6   898.4  
Exchange adjustments    (1.6)  (9.6)  (0.3)  (11.5) 
Acquisitions    1.9   1.0   -   2.9  
Additions    7.4   35.0   9.7   52.1  
Disposals    (2.0)  (55.2)  -   (57.2) 
Transfers    0.9   10.0   (10.9)  - 
As at 31 December 2011   196.2  670.4  18.1  884.7 
Depreciation         
As at 1 January 2010   90.1  549.5   -  639.6  
Exchange adjustments   1.0  8.8   -  9.8  
Disposals   (6.3) (34.2)  -  (40.5) 
Impairment   -  3.3  0.1  3.4  
Depreciation    5.1  39.7   -  44.8 
As at 31 December 2010   89.9  567.1  0.1  657.1  
Exchange adjustments   (0.9) (6.7) -  (7.6) 
Disposals   (0.4) (53.8) -  (54.2) 
Impairment reversal   (1.0) (1.5) -  (2.5) 
Depreciation    5.0  38.6  -  43.6 
As at 31 December 2011   92.6  543.7  0.1  636.4 
             
NBV at 31 December 2010   99.7  122.1  19.5  241.3 
         
NBV at 31 December 2011   103.6  126.7  18.0  248.3 
Included in the total net book value of plant and machinery is £1.0m (2010: £1.0m) in respect of assets acquired under 
ﬁnance leases.  Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.6m (2010: £0.6m).
 
13.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
 Assets Liabilities Net
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 £m £m £m £m  £m £m 
  Restated  Restated  Restated
Non-current assets 2.7  9.5  (53.2) (63.3)  (50.5) (53.8) 
Inventories 8.3  6.5   (5.6) (5.5)  2.7  1.0   
Revaluation of derivatives 0.9  1.1   (1.2) (2.7)  (0.3) (1.6) 
Employee beneﬁts and provisions 83.1  92.3   (4.7) (5.0)  78.4  87.3  
Tax assets 5.8  2.9  -  -  5.8  2.9 
 100.8  112.3   (64.7) (76.5)  36.1  35.8   
Set-off of tax (25.1) (56.0)  25.1  56.0  -  -  
 75.7  56.3   (39.6) (20.5)  36.1  35.8   GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets of £25.4m (2010: £25.7m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £99.4m  
(2010: £97.5m).  The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, and the assets have not been recognised due to 
uncertainty over their recoverability.
It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption.  
However £59.9m (2010: £48.7m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of the dividend 
withholding taxes levied by the overseas taxes jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.  These tax liabilities are 
not expected to exceed £5.7m (2010: £5.2m) of which only £1.5m (2010: £1.0m)  has been provided as the Group is able 
to control the timing of the dividends.  It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
 
Movement in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year    
 Restated  Recognised 
 Balance Recognised directly in  Acquisitions/ Balance at 
 at 1 Jan 11 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 11 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets (53.8) 4.8  -  0.8   (2.3) (50.5) 
Inventories 1.0  1.8  -   (0.1) -  2.7  
Revaluation of derivatives (1.6) 1.4  -   (0.1) -  (0.3) 
Employee beneﬁts and provisions 87.3  (23.4) 14.4  0.1  -  78.4  
Tax assets 2.9  2.9  -  (0.1) 0.1  5.8 
  35.8  (12.5)  14.4  0.6    (2.2) 36.1 
       
   Recognised  Restated  Restated 
 Balance Recognised directly in  Acquisitions/ Balance at 
 at 1 Jan 10 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 10 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets (28.0) (0.6)  -  (0.5)  (24.7) (53.8) 
Inventories 1.3  (0.6)  -  -   0.3  1.0  
Revaluation of derivatives (1.0) (0.3)  -  (0.3) -  (1.6) 
Employee beneﬁts 94.8  (18.5)  8.5  0.4   2.1  87.3  
Tax assets 7.5  (4.7)  -  0.1  -  2.9 
  74.6  (24.7)  8.5  (0.3)  (22.3) 35.8 
All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve.  Of the £14.4m (2010: £8.5m) recognised directly  
in equity £15.3m (2010: £4.3m) was credited in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and £0.9m  
(2010: £4.2m) was charged directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
 
14.  Inventories
     2011 2010 
     £m £m
Raw materials and consumables     108.6   101.4  
Work in progress     117.4   94.0  
Finished goods     97.6   92.6 
      323.6   288.0 
 
In 2011 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to £1,213.6m (2010: £1,095.5m).  
In 2011 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £10.0m (2010: £5.1m).  The reversal of write-
downs amounted to £0.6m (2010: £0.7m).  The write-down and reversal are included in cost of sales.  Write-downs and 
reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory 
resale values across all of the Group’s businesses.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15.  Trade and other receivables
  Restated 
 2011 2010 
Falling due for payment within one year £m £m
Trade receivables 344.9   314.9  
Other receivables 21.9   16.2  
Prepayments and accrued income 21.3   14.1 
 388.1   345.2
Receivables are stated after: 
Allowance for impairment 18.2   17.4  
 
The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18.
 
16.  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.  For more 
information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18.
   
 2011 2010 
 £m £m
Current liabilities  
Unsecured loan notes and other loans 13.0   12.9  
Current portion of ﬁnance lease liabilities 0.3   0.3 
  13.3   13.2 
Non-current liabilities   
Unsecured loan notes and other loans 241.8   252.2  
Finance lease liabilities 0.6   0.4 
 242.4   252.6 
 
17.  Trade and other payables
  Restated 
 2011 2010 
Current £m £m
Trade payables 298.0   231.7  
Bills of exchange payable 5.1   5.1  
Other taxation 17.4   15.5  
Social security 6.3   4.5  
Other payables 0.4   1.1  
Accruals and deferred income 156.9   164.9 
  484.1   422.8  GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.  Financial risk management
Overview
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management 
framework.  As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45, this responsibility has been assigned  
to the Executive Committee with support and feedback from the Audit Committee and the IMI Group Assurance  
Department as described below.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.   
The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and 
procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group’s funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price 
movements are managed centrally by IMI’s treasury function.  Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and 
conventional ﬁnancial instruments to manage the underlying risks.  These derivatives and ﬁnancial instruments 
themselves introduce exposure to the following risks:
 Credit risk
 Market risk
 Liquidity risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks; the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s management of 
capital.  Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.  
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents 
held by the Group’s banks and other ﬁnancial assets.  At the end of 2011 these totalled £525.4m (2010: Restated £476.3m).
Trade and other receivables
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.   
The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers 
operate, have less of an inﬂuence on credit risk.  4% (2010: 4%) of the Group’s revenue is attributable to sales transactions 
with our largest single customer.  Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk.  The Group’s contract 
approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk proﬁle of the 
contract, including potential credit risks, is reviewed.  Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, 
appropriate credit limits, cash ﬂow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate.
Counterparty risk
A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, with pre-approved credit limits set for each 
institution.  Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these 
instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties.  At the end of 2011 credit exposure 
including cash deposited did not exceed £20m with any single institution (2010: £22m).  
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices 
will affect the Group’s income and cash ﬂows or the value of its holding of ﬁnancial instruments.  The objective of market 
risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of 
business and also manages ﬁnancial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks.  All such transactions are carried out 
within the guidelines set by the Board.
Currency risk
The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies.   
As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs 
(‘transactions’), translation of foreign proﬁts (‘proﬁt translation’) and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign 
operations (‘asset translation’).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.  Financial risk management (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Transactions
The Group’s wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on 
proﬁtability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures.  It is the Group’s 
policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting 
currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency 
instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts).  A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the 
level of conﬁdence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews.  On this basis up to 50% of the Group’s annual 
exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Group’s net transactional exposure to different currencies 
varies from time to time.  
Proﬁt translation
The Group is exposed to the translation of proﬁts denominated in foreign currencies into the Sterling-based income 
statement.  The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this 
exposure. Short term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against Sterling strength on  
an opportunistic basis.  The translation of US Dollar and Euro-based proﬁts represent the most signiﬁcant translation 
exposure for the Group.
Asset translation
The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and forward 
currency contracts.  The intention is to manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting  
from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates.  To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net 
investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly  
in reserves.  The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.  Detail of the quantum and 
management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2.
Southern European risk
The Group has reviewed its risks from a potential break-up of the Euro affecting Southern European countries.  Local cash 
deposits are already minimised through the use of existing cash pooling and intercompany loan arrangements.  There are 
regular reviews of exposure to and reliance on local banking partners, receivables management and terms of signiﬁcant 
contracts.  In 2011 Southern Europe represented around 5% of the Group’s revenues and a similar proportion of its costs 
and assets - with the majority being in Italy and Spain.
Interest rate risk
As a result of the Group’s management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates –  
the most important of which are US, Eurozone and UK rates.  The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of  
these ﬁnancial statements.  The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at ﬁxed interest rates and 
reviewing the balance of the ﬂoating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s 
income statement is manageable.
The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long term ﬁxed rate Loan Notes.  In order to 
manage its exposure to interest rates, in 1999 US$30m of this ﬁxed rate exposure was hedged back to ﬂoating rates 
through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014.  The interest component of the fair value 
of this portion of the Loan Notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the accounts.  
The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at £3.1m (2010: £3.8m).  The hedged item is 
included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of £3.1m (2010: increase £3.8m).
Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of ﬁxed rate debt and derivative instruments 
where appropriate.
Commodity risk
The Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of 
approximately £36m (2010: £26m).  The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, 
zinc, aluminium and nickel using a combination of ﬁnancial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise 
the volatility of short term margins.   GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due.  The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, 
with sufﬁcient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions.  This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a 
core group of banks, and a series of US Loan Note issues.  The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term 
loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into 
account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans.  At the end of 2011 the 
Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £250m (2010: £213m) and was holding cash and cash equivalents of £148m 
(2010: £123m).  There are no signiﬁcant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group. 
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future 
development of the business including acquisitions.  The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and 
employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company.  The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity 
and reserves and net debt.  Employee beneﬁt obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended capital base.  
Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the accounts.  Undrawn committed 
funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth (including acquisitions and 
organic investments) and liquidity requirements as discussed above.
18.1  Capital base
 2011 2010 
 £m  £m 
Total equity  614  576   
Gross debt  256  268   
Cash (148) (123)
Capital base 722  721  
Employee beneﬁts and deferred tax assets 155  143   
Extended capital base 877  864  
Undrawn funding facilities 250  213 
Available capital base  1,127   1,077 
 
Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described 
in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section.
The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the company is considered regularly by the Board in the light  
of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.  Funding covenants 
currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA (note that the net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2011 was x 0.3 
(2010: x 0.4).  The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of 
up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our existing businesses supported 
such a move.  It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade.  The potential beneﬁts 
to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding.  
As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to 
meet proposed shareholder dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives and any on-market 
share buy-back programme.
The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times 
underlying earnings.  In the event that the Board cannot identify sufﬁcient growth opportunities through organic investment 
and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buy-backs or special dividends will be considered.   
It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee beneﬁt trust in order to hedge 
the exposure under certain management incentive plans.  Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the accounts.
The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group.
The Group currently uses a post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of 8% as a benchmark for investment 
returns.  This is reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates.  The Board tracks the Group’s return on invested 
capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC.  Consistent with this objective the 
growth in Economic Value Added (EVA) is used as a metric in the Group’s long term incentive programmes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.  Financial risk management (continued) 
18.2 Currency proﬁle of assets and liabilities
 Net assets / 
 (liabilities) 
 excluding cash &   Exchange Net Net 
 debt Cash Debt contracts  assets  assets 
 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling (12) 51  -  373  412  336  
US Dollar 265  17  (255) -  27  32  
Euro 228  16  -  (234) 10  55  
Other 241  64  (1) (139) 165  153 
Total 722  148  (256) -  614  576 
 
Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are ﬁnancial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets.
18.3  Interest rate risk proﬁle
 Debt and  Cash and   Weighted Weighted 
 exchange   exchange Floating Fixed average ﬁxed  average period   
 contracts contracts rate rate  interest  for which 
 2011 2011 2011 2011  rate rate is ﬁxed  
 £m £m £m £m %   years
Sterling -  424  424  -      
US Dollar (255) 17  (6) (232) 6.8  6.1  
Euro (234) 16  (218) -      
Other (140) 64  (76) -     
Total (629) 521  124  (232)    
 Debt and  Cash and   Weighted Weighted 
 exchange   exchange Floating Fixed average ﬁxed  average period   
 contracts contracts rate rate  interest  for which 
 2010 2010 2010 2010  rate rate is ﬁxed  
 £m £m £m £m %   years
Sterling  -  364  364   -      
US Dollar (254) 18  (7) (229) 6.8  7.1  
Euro (235) 24  (168) (43) 2.4  1.1  
Other (126) 64  (62)  -     
Total (615) 470  127  (272)    
 
Interest rates are managed using ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate debt and ﬁnancial instruments including interest rate swaps.  
Floating rate liabilities comprise short term debt which bears interest at short term bank rates and the liability side of 
exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter bank rate.
All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as ﬂoating rate investments.
Non-interest bearing ﬁnancial assets and liabilities including short term trade receivables and payables have been 
excluded from the above two analyses. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
18.5  Terms and debt repayments schedule
The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows:
 Effective         5 years 
 interest  Carrying Contractual 0 to  1 to  2 to 3 to 4 to  and 
 rate  value cash ﬂows <1 year  <2 years <3 years  <4 years <5 years  over 
 %  £m £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
2011                    
Cash and cash equivalents Floating 147.9  147.9  147.9            
US Loan Notes 2012 - 2022 6.93-7.17% (22.6) (31.0)  (14.4)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (13.8) 
US Loan Notes 2014 Floating (22.4) (23.6)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (22.8)       
US Loan Notes 2016 7.26% (48.4) (64.4)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (50.4)   
US Loan Notes 2018 5.98% (96.8) (132.4)  (5.8)  (5.8)  (5.8)  (5.8)  (5.8) (103.4) 
US Loan Notes 2019 7.61% (64.5) (101.6)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (77.1) 
Finance leases Various (0.9) (0.9)  (0.3)  (0.2)  (0.3)  (0.1)     
Bank overdrafts Floating (0.4) (0.4)  (0.4)           
Unsecured bank loans Floating (0.1) (0.1)  (0.1)          
Total    (108.2)  (206.5)  118.1   (15.5)  (38.0)  (15.0)  (61.8) (194.3)
  
 Effective         5 years 
 interest  Carrying Contractual 0 to  1 to  2 to 3 to 4 to  and 
 rate  value cash ﬂows <1 year  <2 years <3 years  <4 years <5 years  over 
 %  £m £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
2010                    
Cash and cash equivalents Floating 122.9  122.9  122.9            
US Loan Notes 2012 - 2022 6.93-7.17% (22.3) (32.2)  (1.6)  (14.2)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (14.3) 
US Loan Notes 2014 Floating (22.9) (24.0)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (23.1)     
US Loan Notes 2016 7.26% (47.8) (67.3)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (3.5)  (49.8)
US Loan Notes 2018 5.98% (95.5) (136.2)  (5.7)  (5.7)  (5.7)  (5.7)  (5.7) (107.7) 
US Loan Notes 2019 7.61% (63.7) (105.0)  (4.8)  (4.8)  (4.8)  (4.8)  (4.8)  (81.0) 
Finance leases Various (0.7) (0.7)  (0.3)  (0.2)  (0.2)       
Bank overdrafts Floating (2.5) (2.5)  (2.5)           
Unsecured bank loans Floating (12.9) (12.9)  (12.9)          
Total   (145.4) (257.9) 91.3  (28.7) (15.2) (37.8) (14.7) (252.8)
 
Contractual cash ﬂows include undiscounted committed interest cash ﬂows and, where the amount payable is not ﬁxed, 
the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date.
18.4  Undrawn committed facilities
The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.  The facilities available at 31 December in respect of 
which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows:
 2011 2010 
 £m £m
Expiring within one year 50  112  
Expiring between one and two years -  101  
Expiring after more than two years 200  -  
 250  213 
The weighted average life of these facilities is 2.7 years (2010: 0.7 years). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.  Financial risk management (continued) 
18.6  Total ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classiﬁcation of each class of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, and their fair 
values at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010. Under IAS39, all derivative ﬁnancial instruments not in a hedge 
relationship are classiﬁed as derivatives at fair value through the income statement.  The Group does not use derivatives 
for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties.  All transactions in 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
       
  Other   Total   
 Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying  
 at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
2011              
Cash and cash equivalents -  -  147.9  -  147.9  147.9  
Bank overdrafts -  -  -  (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) 
Borrowings due within one year -  -  -  (13.3) (13.3) (13.3) 
Borrowings due after one year (22.4) -  -  (220.0) (242.4) (285.5) 
Trade payables -  -  -  (298.0) (298.0) (298.0) 
Trade receivables -  -  -  344.9  344.9  344.9  
Investments -  -  20.4  -  20.4  20.4  
Other current ﬁnancial assets/(liabilities)             
    Derivative assets * 3.1  9.0  -  -  12.1  12.1  
    Derivative liabilities ** (0.2) (6.9) -  -  (7.1) (7.1)
Total (19.5) 2.1  168.3  (186.8) (35.9) (79.0)
 
* Includes £4.9m falling due after more than one year (2010: £7.0m).
** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £1.0m falling due after more than one year (£0.8m in 1-2 years and £0.2m in  
2-3 years).  Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives.   
The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of £1.9m is shown in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
Trade payables are all due within one year.
     Restated  
  Other Restated  Total   
 Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying Restated 
 at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
2010              
Cash and cash equivalents -  -  122.9  -  122.9  122.9  
Bank overdrafts -  -  -  (2.5) (2.5) (2.5) 
Borrowings due within one year -  -  -  (13.2) (13.2) (13.2) 
Borrowings due after one year (22.9) -  -  (229.7) (252.6) (277.8) 
Trade payables -  -  -  (231.7) (231.7) (231.7) 
Trade receivables -  -  -  314.9  314.9  314.9  
Investments -  -  19.2  -  19.2  19.2  
Other current ﬁnancial assets/(liabilities)             
   Derivative assets * 3.8  12.0  3.5  -  19.3  19.3  
   Derivative liabilities ** (2.1) (2.5) -  -  (4.6) (4.6)
Total (21.2) 9.5  145.6  (162.2) (28.3) (53.5)
 
* Includes £7.0m falling due after more than one year.
** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.6m falling due after more than one year (£0.2m in 1-2 years, £0.2m in 2-3 
years and £0.2m in 3-4 years).  
Trade payables are all due within one year. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Valuations
Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets 
are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short term nature of the instruments.
Long term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is 
the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity.  The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters 
such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads.  
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value 
the relevant hedged cash ﬂows.
Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal commodity 
hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and 
forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities.
Investments are primarily in publically quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities.  The fair value is 
based on the price quotation at the reporting date.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments by valuation 
technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, 
either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on 
observable market data.
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of £22.4m (2010: £22.9m) and derivative assets of 
£12.1m (2010: £22.1m) and liabilities of £7.1m (2010: £4.6m) are valued by Level 2 techniques.  Investments are valued by 
Level 1 techniques.
18.7  Exposure to credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk for ﬁnancial assets is represented by their carrying value.  At 31 December 2011 this 
was £180.5m (2010: £161.4m).
 Carrying amount
  Restated 
 2011 2010 
 £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 147.9  122.9  
Investments  20.4  19.2  
Other available for sale ﬁnancial assets -  3.5  
Interest rate swaps 3.1  3.8  
Forward exchange contracts 9.1  11.7  
Metals contracts -  0.3 
   180.5  161.4 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2011 by geographic region was:
   
 Carrying amount
 2011 2010 
 £m £m
UK 30.9  25.7  
Germany 28.0  29.9  
Rest of Europe 101.5  101.9  
USA 77.0  75.5  
Asia/Paciﬁc 73.6  59.8  
Rest of World 33.9  22.1 
   344.9  314.9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.  Financial risk management (continued) 
18.7  Exposure to credit risk (continued)
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business sector:
 Carrying amount
   2011 2010 
   £m £m
Severe Service   132.1  115.8  
Fluid Power   107.7  99.8  
Indoor Climate   38.5  39.3  
Beverage Dispense   41.0  40.6  
Merchandising    25.1  19.4  
Corporate      0.5   -   
    344.9  314.9 
The Group’s most signiﬁcant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 3.8% of trade receivables carrying 
amount at 31 December 2011 (2010: 1.5%).
Impairments
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
 2011 2010
 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 
 £m £m £m £m
Not past due 304.9  (2.2)  275.3  (1.1) 
Past due 1-30 days 29.4  (1.0)  31.7  (0.8) 
Past due 31-90 days 12.6  (0.8)  9.0  (1.0) 
Past due over 90 days  16.2  (14.2)  16.3  (14.5)
Total 363.1  (18.2) 332.3  (17.4)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:  
   2011 2010 
   £m £m
Net balance at 1 January   17.4  17.8  
Charged to the income statement     4.5  3.7  
Utilised during the year     (1.8)  (2.6) 
Released   (1.7)  (1.7) 
Exchange   (0.2) 0.2 
Net balance at 31 December    18.2  17.4 
The impairment loss recognised of £1.0m (2010: gain £0.1m) relates to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk 
of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on ﬁnancial instruments
As described elsewhere in this note 18, the Group uses ﬁnancial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its 
underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal 
commodity prices.
In estimating the sensitivity of the ﬁnancial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, 
currency rates or metal prices.   The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the 
impact on proﬁt before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely 
change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying 
transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and 
further developments in global ﬁnancial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely 
future gains and losses in these ﬁnancial instruments.
Financial instruments sensitivity table           
The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the speciﬁed changes 
occur only to the ﬁnancial instruments and do not reﬂect the opposite movement from the impact of the speciﬁc change 
on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge. 
 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase  10% decrease 
 in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal  in base metal 
 rates  rates  in Sterling in Sterling costs costs 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2011             
Impact on income statement: 
    (loss)/gain -  -  (3.5) 3.5  0.4  (0.4) 
Impact on equity: (loss)/gain -  -  (51.2) 51.2  -  -   
           
At 31 December 2010             
Impact on income statement: 
    (loss)/gain (0.4) 0.4  (5.0) 5.0  0.2  (0.2) 
Impact on equity: (loss)/gain  -   -  (49.0) 49.0   -   - 
The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on ﬁnancial instruments only.  As noted, it is the Group’s 
policy to use ﬁnancial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal 
price movements.  In accordance with this policy, the Group is conﬁdent that the underlying risks that these ﬁnancial 
instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction.  To the extent that the underlying currency, 
interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19.  Employee beneﬁts
Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee beneﬁt arrangements are accounted for in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS19.  As at 31 December 2011 the Group continues to provide pension beneﬁts 
through a mixture of deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution arrangements.  Contributions to deﬁned contribution 
arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
The Group has 75 different deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements worldwide.  The major pension and other post-employment 
beneﬁt arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation.  Assessments of 
the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit 
credit method.  Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected 
beneﬁts based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in 
previous years, net of the expected return on the assets.  Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise 
during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying 
actuarial assumptions, are recognised through equity.
The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with beneﬁts payable more than 
12 months after the related services are rendered.  These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group’s strategy is to move away from deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements towards deﬁned contribution arrangements 
wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group.  During 2011 four deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements were 
wound-up, one was closed to new entrants and one to future accrual.
The largest deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK (the Fund).  This constitutes 83% of the total 
deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities and 89% of the total deﬁned beneﬁt assets.  The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the 
Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2011.  The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an 
actuarial deﬁcit of £120m.  The Group agreed to pay a special contribution of £36.1m in December 2011 and further 
contributions of £16.8m each July from 2012 to 2016 inclusive as part of the recovery plan to close the deﬁcit by 2016.
The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements that the assets do not match the 
liabilities at any given point in time.  In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group 
worked with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position.  A number of important initiatives were 
implemented in line with this objective.
The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of £15.1m which was 
recognised as an exceptional credit in the income statement for that year.  The Trustee also purchased approximately 
£325m of annuities to match certain beneﬁt payments due from the Fund.  The purchase price of these annuities was 
greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured beneﬁts.  The Trustee also 
rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets 
(including the annuity policies).  This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by 
the Trustee’s value at risk model, of approximately 25%.  The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by 
around 20%.
Also during 2010, the difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was ﬁnanced by a 
special contribution to the Fund of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them 
rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. 
During 2011 certain Fund members accepted the Group’s enhanced transfer value offer. The 31 December 2011 deﬁned 
beneﬁt obligation in respect of the Fund reﬂects the liability to pay transfer values in early 2012. The transfer values 
payable are less than the value of the liabilities measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, resulting in a 
curtailment gain. As part of the Group’s offer, in addition to receiving transfer values from the Fund (which will reduce the 
IAS19 assets and liabilities by £27.4m each), subsequent to the year-end, the Group made payments of £8.5m to the 
individuals in addition to paying employers’ national insurance thereon of £1.1m. The curtailment gain of £11.7m reported 
in this note is therefore partially offset by £9.6m additional pension costs accrued, resulting in a net gain of £2.1m, 
reﬂected in segmental operating proﬁt. 
With effect from 1 January 2012 Fund pensioners could choose to exchange future increases on their pensions for a 
higher current pension. The reduction in the Fund’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligation as a result of this exercise will be reﬂected 
in the income statement for 2012.  GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December
 2011 2010
  Overseas  Overseas     Overseas  Overseas  
  post  non-post   post  non-post   
  employ-  employ-    employ-  employ- 
 UK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Funded schemes in surplus: 
   Fair value of assets -   21.6  -  21.6   -  21.8   -  21.8  
   Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt 
      obligation -   (18.2) -  (18.2)  -  (19.1)  - (19.1)
  -   3.4  -  3.4   -  2.7   -  2.7  
   Restriction due to asset ceiling -   (1.5) -  (1.5)  -  (1.1)  - (1.1)
Assets for deﬁned 
      beneﬁt funded schemes -   1.9  -  1.9   -  1.6   -  1.6 
Funded schemes in deﬁcit:                  
   Fair value of assets  1,061.5   112.4  -  1,173.9  981.5  112.7   -  1,094.2  
   Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt 
      obligation  (1,159.5)  (142.9) -  (1,302.4) (1,088.4) (134.3)  - (1,222.7)
   Recognised liabilities for deﬁned 
      beneﬁt funded schemes (98.0)  (30.5) -  (128.5) (106.9) (21.6)  - (128.5) 
   Present value of obligation for 
      unfunded schemes  (3.5)  (60.3) (13.4) (77.2) (3.5) (54.6) (14.4) (72.5)
Liabilities for deﬁned 
      beneﬁt schemes (101.5)  (90.8) (13.4) (205.7) (110.4) (76.2) (14.4) (201.0)
                  
Net liability for deﬁned 
      beneﬁt obligations (101.5)   (88.9) (13.4) (203.8) (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) 
Total fair value of assets 1,061.5   134.0  -   1,195.5  981.5  134.5   -   1,116.0  
Total present value of deﬁned 
      beneﬁt obligation  (1,163.0)   (221.4)  (13.4)  (1,397.8)  (1,091.9) (208.0) (14.4) (1,314.3) 
Asset ceiling -   (1.5) -  (1.5) -  (1.1)  -  (1.1)
Net liability for deﬁned       
      beneﬁt obligations (101.5)  (88.9) (13.4) (203.8) (110.4) (74.6) (14.4) (199.4) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
a) Summary of assumptions
  Weighted averages 
 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009
 UK  Overseas  UK  Overseas UK  Overseas 
 % pa  % pa  % pa  % pa % pa  % pa
Inﬂation rate - RPI   3.1  n/a 3.5  n/a  3.7  n/a  
Inﬂation rate - CPI   2.1  1.9 n/a 2.0 n/a 2.0 
Discount rate   4.8  3.7  5.5  4.1  5.7  4.4  
Expected rate of salary increases ¹   n/a 2.8  n/a 2.8  4.9  2.8  
Rate of pension increases ²   3.1  0.5  3.5  0.6  3.7  0.5  
Rate of increase for deferred pensions ²   3.1  0.5  3.5  0.6  3.7  0.5 
Medical cost trend rate ³   n/a 5.0  n/a 5.0  n/a 5.0  
Expected return on equities   7.1  7.5  7.4  7.3  8.1  7.6  
Expected return on bonds   3.8  2.8  4.8  3.1  5.3  3.5  
Expected return on property   6.0  5.0  6.7  5.1  7.0  5.6  
Expected return on other assets 
4
   8.4  2.4  8.4  2.4  4.4  2.5 
Overall expected return on assets 
5
   6.5  4.3  7.1  4.4  6.9  4.6 
 
¹ For 2009, includes 0.2% pa as the average effect of the age-by-age promotional scale for UK.
² In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for UK.
³  Initial rate of 7.0% pa (7.5% pa in 2010, 8.0% pa in 2009) reducing by 0.5% pa each year to 5.0% pa.  Assumed healthcare cost trend 
rates do not have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement.
4
  There was a material change in the assumed return on other assets in the UK in 2010 which reﬂects changes in the IMI Pension Fund’s 
investment strategy during the year.  See note (e) below for further details.
5
 Based on the distribution of assets set out in note (e) below.        
The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reﬂect its experience, together with an allowance for 
improvements over time.  The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 
31 March 2011, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2011 reﬂect the results of this review.  The table below 
shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Fund’s current and future pensioners based on the assumptions 
adopted.  The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2011 is in line with the CMI’s 2010 Core 
Projection model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa.  The CMI is the research body funded by the 
actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates 
assumed at December 2009 and 2010 was in line with the published medium cohort rates, with a minimum annual rate of 
improvement of 1%.
Implied life expectancy (years) from age 65 for: 
 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009
 Males Females Males Females Males Females
Current pensioners 20.9  23.8  20.7  22.4  20.6  22.3  
Future pensioners 22.7  25.8  22.7  24.3  22.6  24.2 
The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown 
in note (j) below.
19.  Employee beneﬁts  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI Annual Report 2011 111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b)  Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December
 2011 2010
  Overseas  Overseas     Overseas  Overseas  
  post  non-post   post  non-post   
  employ-  employ-    employ-  employ- 
 UK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes operating costs                  
Current service cost -   4.6  0.8  5.4  4.7  4.2  0.6  9.5  
Past service cost -   -  0.1  0.1   -  (0.8) -  (0.8) 
Recognition of losses/(gains) -   -  (0.1) (0.1)  -  -  0.9  0.9  
Settlement/curtailment (11.7)  (1.8)  -  (13.5) (15.1) (1.0)  -  (16.1)
Total  (11.7)  2.8  0.8  (8.1) (10.4) 2.4  1.5  (6.5)
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes ﬁnancial costs                  
Interest cost 58.3   8.2  0.7  67.2  61.2  8.0  0.7  69.9  
Expected return on assets (67.5)  (5.9)  -  (73.4) (64.2) (5.7)  -  (69.9)
Total  (9.2)  2.3  0.7  (6.2) (3.0) 2.3  0.7  - 
Total deﬁned beneﬁt schemes pension  
   expense/(income) (20.9)  5.1  1.5  (14.3) (13.4) 4.7  2.2  (6.5) 
Accrued payment to deferred members * 9.6   -  -  9.6  -  -  -  -  
Pension expense from deﬁned  
   contribution schemes 3.1   6.1  -  9.2  1.0  6.3   -  7.3 
Total pension (income)/expense (8.2)  11.2  1.5  4.5  (12.4) 11.0  2.2  0.8 
* £9.6m (including £1.2m National Insurance contributions) has been accrued for committed payments to be made to deferred 
members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise. This amount has been included in operating proﬁt. After the 
related settlement gain of £11.7m included above, this exercise results in a £2.1m net gain in the 2011 income statement.  
c) Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December
 2011 2010
  Overseas  Overseas     Overseas  Overseas  
  post  non-post   post  non-post   
  employ-  employ-    employ-  employ- 
 UK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Actuarial losses during the year (64.9)  (19.9)  -  (84.8) (18.6) (3.5)  -  (22.1) 
Change in the effect of the asset ceiling  -   (0.4)  -  (0.4)  -  (0.1)  -  (0.1) 
Exchange gain/(loss) ¹  -   0.8    0.8   -  (1.5) (0.2) (1.7)
Total losses recognised during the year (64.9)  (19.5) -  (84.4) (18.6) (5.1) (0.2) (23.9)
Cumulative amount of actuarial  
gains/(losses) at the beginning of the year (216.0)  (30.8) (5.9) (252.7) (197.4) (25.7) (5.7) (228.8)
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses  
   at the end of the year (280.9)  (50.3) (5.9) (337.1) (216.0) (30.8) (5.9) (252.7)
1
 The 2011 ﬁgure includes no gain or loss on asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements.  The equivalent ﬁgure for 
2010 was a £0.1m gain.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112 Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
d) Reconciliation of present value of Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation (DBO) for the year ended 31 December
 2011 2010
  Overseas  Overseas     Overseas  Overseas  
  post  non-post   post  non-post   
  employ-  employ-    employ-  employ-  
 UK ment ment Total UK ment ment Total 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Present value of DBO at the beginning 
      of the year 1,091.9   208.0  14.4  1,314.3  1,101.4  186.3  13.5  1,301.2  
Company service cost -   4.6  0.8  5.4  4.7  4.2  0.6  9.5  
Interest cost 58.3   8.2  0.7  67.2  61.2  8.0  0.7  69.9  
Employee contributions -   2.9  -  2.9  1.4  2.4  -  3.8  
Past service cost -   -  0.1  0.1  -  (0.8) -  (0.8) 
Actuarial (gain)/loss:                  
      from experience (10.5)  (1.8) (0.6) (12.9) (11.8) (1.6) 0.7  (12.7) 
      from changes in assumptions 90.0   18.2  0.5  108.7  10.1  5.8  0.2  16.1  
Actual beneﬁt payments                  
      from plan assets (55.0)  (10.0) -  (65.0) (60.0) (8.6) -  (68.6) 
      direct from the employers -   (3.9) (2.5) (6.4) -  (3.3) (2.3) (5.6) 
Settlement/curtailment (11.7)  (2.9) -  (14.6) (15.1) (3.1)  -  (18.2) 
Purchase of business -   -  -  -   -  4.4  0.8  5.2  
Exchange -   0.1  -  0.1  -  14.3  0.2  14.5  
Transfer to deﬁned contribution scheme -   (2.0) -  (2.0) -  -  -  - 
Present value of DBO at the end of 
      the year 1,163.0   221.4  13.4  1,397.8  1,091.9  208.0  14.4  1,314.3 
 
e) Market value by category of assets as at 31 December
    2011   2010 
    Overseas    Overseas    
    post    post   
     employ-    employ-   
   UK ment Total UK ment Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m   £m
Equities     54.6  37.8  92.4  41.5  40.4  81.9  
Bonds     397.5  73.1  470.6  335.5  71.5  407.0  
Property     38.2  8.6  46.8  36.5  6.3  42.8  
Other     571.2  14.5  585.7  568.0  16.3  584.3 
Total     1,061.5  134.0  1,195.5  981.5  134.5  1,116.0 
As at 31 December 2011 Other UK assets now include:                
 the current market value of the total return equity swaps of a negative £3m.  These contracts provide the IMI Pension 
Fund with equity returns in excess of LIBOR on a notional investment of £362m;
 £317m in respect of insurance (annuity) policies and IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership; 
 £147m in respect of hedge fund investments;
 £61m in respect of PFI investments; and
 £49m in respect of cash and currency items.                   
There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements.
19.  Employee beneﬁts  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI Annual Report 2011 113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
f) Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December
    2011   2010 
    Overseas    Overseas    
    post    post   
     employ-    employ-   
   UK ment Total UK ment Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m   £m
Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year     981.5  134.5  1,116.0   926.6  118.2  1,044.8  
Expected return on assets     67.5  5.9  73.4  64.2  5.7  69.9  
Actuarial gain/(loss) on assets     14.6  (3.5) 11.1   (20.3) 0.7  (19.6) 
Actual company contributions:                  
      normal     -  6.3  6.3  4.2  5.5  9.7  
      additional - as agreed under 2008 valuation  
           funding plans     16.8  -  16.8   16.8   -  16.8  
      additional - other     36.1  -  36.1   48.6   -  48.6  
Employee contributions     -  2.9  2.9   1.4  2.4  3.8  
Beneﬁt payments (met from plan assets)     (55.0) (10.0) (65.0)  (60.0) (8.6) (68.6) 
Settlements     -  (1.1) (1.1)  -  (2.1) (2.1) 
Exchange     -  0.9  0.9  -  12.7  12.7  
Transfer to deﬁned contribution scheme     -  (1.9) (1.9) -  -  - 
Fair value of assets at the end of the year     1,061.5  134.0  1,195.5  981.5  134.5  1,116.0 
 
The other additional Company contribution made to UK arrangements during 2010 was in connection with facilitating 
investment by the IMI Pension Fund in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
g) Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December
    2011   2010 
    Overseas     Overseas   
    post    post   
    employ-    employ-  
   UK ment Total UK ment Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m   £m
Expected return on assets     67.5  5.9  73.4  64.2  5.7  69.9  
Actuarial gain/(loss) on assets     14.6  (3.5) 11.1   (20.3) 0.7  (19.6)
Actual return on assets     82.1  2.4  84.5   43.9  6.4  50.3 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
h) Additional information     
   UK  Overseas  Total 
   £m  £m  £m
Expected employer contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes for the year ending 
      31 December 2012       
            Normal   -  5.8  5.8  
            Additional   16.8  -  16.8  
  Expected employee contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes for the year ending 
      31 December 2012   -  3.2  3.2 
Expected beneﬁts to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012 -  5.8  5.8   
The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010.
 
i) Historical information     
 2011  2010  2009  2008  2007 
 £m £m £m  £m £m
Present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1,397.8) (1,314.3) (1,301.2) (1,093.7) (1,184.1) 
Fair value of assets 1,195.5  1,116.0  1,044.8  958.2  1,124.0 
Deﬁcit (202.3) (198.3) (256.4) (135.5) (60.1) 
Impact of the asset ceiling (1.5) (1.1) (1.1) (1.6) (3.5)
Net liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (203.8) (199.4) (257.5) (137.1) (63.6)
Experience (gain)/loss arising on plan liabilities (12.9) (12.7) (23.1) (13.0) 0.8  
Experience (gain)/loss arising on plan assets (11.1) 19.6  (74.0) 245.6  11.3 
 
j)  Sensitivities     
The balance sheet liability is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to place a value on the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy, and to changes in the assets, in particular to 
equity market movements.  The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of the total liabilities and 89% of the total assets for the 
Group’s long-term employee beneﬁt arrangements as at 31 December 2011.  It is therefore appropriate to consider the 
sensitivity to changes in key assumptions in respect of the Fund and these are illustrated below (net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 
as at 31 December 2011 for the IMI Pension Fund is £98.0m).
 
Increase in net deﬁned beneﬁt liability as at 31 December 2011
1
  £m
Discount rate 0.1% pa lower  15    
Inﬂation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher  11    
Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65  30    
10% fall in non-bond-like² assets  66   
1 
in each case all other assumptions are unchanged.
²  bond-like assets include cash, bonds, insurance (annuity) policies and IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
19.  Employee beneﬁts  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
20.  Share-based payments
The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes:
SAYE savings-related share option scheme
This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the  
grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject to 
performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase IMI shares. 
SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the date they become exercisable or otherwise expire.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including the executive directors.  This scheme covers 
two separate opportunities for employees to share in IMI’s success. Partnership shares – allow employees to sacriﬁce up 
to £125 per month from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares.  Matching shares may be awarded in respect of 
partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares.   
Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to a maximum of 0.6% of salary capped at £3,000.  
Both the Partnership and Free share schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to 
encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company.
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan (GESPP)
The IMI Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme was introduced in 2011 for USA and Germany.  The German 
GESPP offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a ﬁxed price at a future date. This scheme mirrors the UK SAYE, with 
a minimum / maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of 3 or 5 years. The USA GESPP also offers the 
opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a ﬁxed price at a future date. The USA scheme also operates in a similar way to SAYE, 
with a minimum / maximum savings limit per month. However the contract duration is for a ﬁxed period of 2 years and 
different taxation conditions apply for the exercising period.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The performance share plan is open to the Company’s executive directors and selected senior managers within the 
Group.  For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth while the remaining 
50% of awards are subject to relative TSR (total shareholder return).  For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the awards 
granted vest subject to relative TSR performance.  For awards granted in 2010 onwards, 50% of PSP awards vest subject 
to EPS growth, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE (Return on Operating Capital Employed).
Share Matching Plan (SMP)
Executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual incentive payments are governed by the individual’s 
achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (SOG).  The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI 
shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment is made in cash.  If not achieved, a proportion of any earned annual 
incentive payment will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares in the SMP. This mandated 
investment (if Share Ownership Guideline is not achieved) is matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%.   
These matching shares can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Qualifying employees may also elect to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their incentive payment, and invest 
personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of their annual incentive opportunity.  Additional shares, in the form of a 
matching award, may be earned (to a maximum of 200% of the gross equivalent number of shares invested in the plan) if 
performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included one third TSR, one third proﬁt before tax 
(measured annually) and one third annual priority targets (measured annually). The annual priority targets were weighted 
equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and proﬁt drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash conversion and 
return on sales. The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was Economic Value Added over the years 2010 to 2012.
Share Option Plan (SOP)
Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share 
Option Plan adopted in 2009.  These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year 
vesting period. The purpose of the Plan is to give selected IMI employees (who are not executive directors of the 
Company) the opportunity to share in the beneﬁts of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 116
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them:
Executive Share Option Scheme
Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the 
Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme which expired in May 2005.  All outstanding options granted under this scheme were 
granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in EPS above inﬂation over a ﬁxed period of 
three ﬁnancial years. Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the periods shown below. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005.
The LTIP allows for cash awards to be made to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group 
subject to certain performance conditions.  At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP 
payments can (or in the case of executive directors, must) normally be invested in market purchases of IMI shares 
pursuant to a deferred share plan.  Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further 
three year period.  After that period, matching shares are awarded at the ratio of one additional share for every four 
invested with no further performance conditions.
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
Under the DBP , for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was 
mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in IMI shares.  Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all 
or part of the remainder of their annual bonus.  Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned (to a 
maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level) if stretching 
performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period.
          
Analysis of options granted          
Currently operated share-based payment schemes
  Performance  Share   
 Employee SAYE option Share Plan¹  Matching Plan¹ Share Option Plan
 Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal 
 options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards awards exercisable 
 thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date
2003  976  201p 2006-2010 -  -            
2004  801  289p 2007-2009  -  -            
2005  464  380p 2008-2010  706  2008           
2006  251  495p 2009-2011  716  2009           
2007  204  517p 2010-2012  734  2010           
2008  342  391p 2011-2013  995  2011           
2009  832  201p 2012-2014 673  2012   1,783  2012  2,532  441p 2012  
2010  190  511p 2013-2015  228  2013   1,145  2013  1,565  645p 2013  
2011  111  849p 2014-2016  234  2014   821  2014  1,463  959p 2014 
 Global Employee Share Purchase Plan
  Weighted 
 Number of average Normal 
 options option exercisable 
 thousand price date
2011  246  695p 2013-2016    
20.  Share-based payments  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Options without  Options with  
  performance conditions performance conditions
   Weighted 
 Number of Range of average  
 options option prices option price Number of options
Outstanding at 1 January 2010  4,372,528  201-517p 383p  4,379,648  
Exercisable at 1 January 2010  715,618  201-517p 361p  15,389 
Granted  1,754,639  511-645p 631p   1,372,302  
Exercised  362,498  201-517p 359p  412,652  
Lapsed  417,664  201-517p 411p  538,422 
Outstanding at 31 December 2010  5,347,005  201-645p 464p   4,800,876  
Exercisable at 31 December 2010  344,142  201-517p 364p  18,905 
          
Granted  1,819,496  632-972p 917p  1,054,632  
Exercised  317,903  201-645p 390p  940,459  
Lapsed  612,488  201-972p 573p  171,553 
          
Outstanding at 31 December 2011 6,236,110  201-972p 575p  4,743,496  
Exercisable at 31 December 2011 205,849  257-511p 386p  89,979 
Legacy share-based payment schemes
  Long Term Deferred 
 Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan
 1
 Bonus Plan
 1
 Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal   
 options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable 
 thousand option price date thousand date thousand date
2003  2,258  257p 2006-2013 -  -  -  -  
2004  2,199  358p 2007-2014  -  -  -  -  
2005  484  421p 2008-2015  53  2008   -  -  
2006  -  -  -   44  2009   117  2009  
2007  -  -  -   61  2010  184  2010  
2008  -  -  -   82  2011  183  2011 
1
 These options were granted at an option price of £nil. 
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options outstanding are as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within Options 
without performance conditions.  The options previously reported as Long Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share 
Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within Options with performance conditions.  In both 
cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements.  Options with performance conditions were granted with an 
option price of £nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is 6.99 years 
(2010: 7.42 years).
Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were 
granted on or before 7 November 2002.  These options have not been subsequently modiﬁed and therefore do not need to 
be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2.  The number of these share options outstanding was as follows:
1 January 2010: 78,772
31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011: 10,022
31 December 2011: nil
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was £9.94 (2010: £6.91).
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share 
options granted, based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The assumptions used for grants in 2011 included a 
dividend yield of 3.5% (2010: 3.7%), expected share price volatility of 30% (2010: 30%), a weighted average expected life 
of 3.4 years (2010: 3.6 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 2.1% (2010: 2.0%).  The expected volatility is wholly 
based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for 
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
   2011  2010  
   £m  £m
Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in  the income statement  8.9 5.5  
 
The share-based payment expense of £8.9m (2010: £5.5m) comprises a charge of £10.3m for the year offset by a credit of 
£1.4m (2010: £2.2m) in respect of lapses.  £6.0m (2010: £2.8m) of the total charge is in respect of directors.
21.  Provisions for liabilities and charges
   Trade Investigation 
 Restructuring warranties costs  Other Total  
  £m £m £m  £m £m
Current 11.9  -  2.0  -  13.9
Non-current -  32.1  1.7  13.6  47.4 
At 1 January 2011 11.9  32.1  3.7  13.6  61.3 
Exchange adjustment 0.1  -  -  -  0.1 
Acquisitions -  0.1  -  -  0.1 
Utilised during the year (15.3) (12.3) (2.1) (0.3) (30.0)
Arising during the year 10.2  12.5  -  0.6  23.3 
At 31 December 2011 6.9  32.4  1.6  13.9  54.8 
Current 6.9  13.1  1.6  -  21.6  
Non-current -  19.3  -  13.9  33.2 
  6.9  32.4  1.6  13.9  54.8 
20.  Share-based payments  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The restructuring provision is expected to be fully utilised within one year.  The provision balance reﬂects residual amounts 
committed but not spent in relation to a number of speciﬁc projects to reorganise operations and facilities.
Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically 1-2 years, with the 
expected amounts falling due in less than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent 
management’s best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers. 
CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with 
the US Department of Justice.  Provision has been made for the costs associated with the monitor over the three year 
monitor appointment period which runs until June 2013 and the cost of resolving certain investigation related matters.
Other provisions are principally environmental provisions, recognising the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated 
land at a number of current and former sites.  Because of the long term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain 
and the provision represents management’s best estimates of these costs.
22.  Share capital
 Number of ordinary  
 shares of 25p each
   2011 2010 2011 2010 
   m m £m £m 
Authorised    480.0  480.0  120.0  120.0  
Issued and fully paid:         
In issue at the start of the year    339.9  339.5  85.0  84.9  
Issued to satisfy employee share schemes   0.3  0.4  -  0.1 
In issue at the end of the year    340.2  339.9  85.0  85.0 
Of which held within retained earnings   23.0  23.3     
Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below:
    Employee  
    Beneﬁt Trust Treasury Other Total 
    m m m m 
In issue at 31 December 2010    4.2  19.1  316.6  339.9  
New issues    -  -  0.3  0.3  
Market purchases    0.8  -  (0.8)  -  
Allocations    (1.2) -  1.2   - 
At 31 December 2011    3.8  19.1  317.3  340.2  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 120
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the year 0.3m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.2m.    
The Company made market purchases of a total of 0.8m (2010: 3.6m) of its own shares with an aggregate market value of 
£8.0m (2010: £29.5m) and a nominal value of £0.2m (2010: £0.9m) including dealing costs of £nil (2010: £0.2m).  Of the 
23.0m (2010: 23.3m) shares held within retained earnings, 3.8m (2010: 4.2m) shares with an aggregate market value of 
£29.1m (2010: £39.7m) are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting.
Dividends    
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.  The dividends have not been 
provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
 2011 2010 
 £m £m 
19.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 17.0p) 60.3  53.9  
 
The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year:   
 2011 2010 
 £m £m 
17.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 13.2p) 53.9  42.2  
11.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 9.0p) 34.9  28.7  
 88.8  70.9 
Share options
The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan (2004) and selected senior executives within the Group 
participate in the IMI Executive Share Option (1995) Scheme and the IMI Performance Share Plan.  At 31 December 2011, options 
to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to and not exercised by participants of IMI share option schemes as follows:
 Date of Number     
 grant of shares Price Date of exercise 
 
IMI SAYE Share Option 04.04.06  2,278  494.55p   01.08.11
(1994) Scheme 16.04.07  35,317  517.18p   01.08.12
  14.04.08  74,788  391.41p   01.08.11 or 01.08.13
  09.04.09  709,599  201.36p   01.08.12 or 01.08.14
  06.04.10  164,183  510.92p   01.08.13 or 01.08.15
  06.04.11  105,838  849.02p   01.08.14 or 01.08.16
           
Global Employee Share 19.12.11  173,930  632.00p   01.08.13
Purchase Plan 19.12.11  71,602  849.02p   01.08.14 or 01.08.16
           
IMI Executive Share  02.04.03  27,500  256.9p   02.04.06 to 02.04.13
Option (1995) Scheme 24.03.04  44,590  358.0p   24.03.07 to 24.03.14
  23.03.05  129,235  420.5p   23.03.08 to 23.03.15
           
IMI 2005 Long Term  13.05.05  3,050   -   13.05.08 to 13.05.15
Incentive Plan (also known as 03.04.06  6,520   -   03.04.09 to 03.04.16
IMI Performance Share Plan) 05.04.07  9,768   -   29.03.10 to 05.04.17
  04.04.08  70,641   -   04.04.11 to 04.04.18
  10.03.09  673,400   -   10.03.12 to 10.03.19
  07.05.10  227,700   -   07.05.13 to 07.05.20
  10.03.11  234,000  -   10.03.14 to 10.03.21
           
IMI Share Option Plan (2009) 03.09.09  1,997,000  440.93p   03.09.12 to 03.09.19
  22.03.10  1,317,250  645.00p   22.03.13 to 22.03.20
  23.03.11  1,310,500  971.83p   23.03.14 to 23.03.21
  19.12.11  72,500  719.33p   19.12.14 to 19.12.21
22.  Share capital  (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23.  Cash ﬂow notes
a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents
       Restated 
      2011 2010 
      £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents in current assets       147.9  122.9  
Bank overdraft in current liabilities        (0.4) (2.5)
Cash and cash equivalents            147.5  120.4 
 
b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents       27.9  41.1  
Net repayment/(drawdown) of borrowings       16.0  (14.2)
Cash inﬂow        43.9  26.9  
Net debt acquired        (2.5) -  
Currency translation differences        (4.2) 0.1 
Movement in net borrowings in the year       37.2  27.0  
Net borrowings at the start of the year       (145.4) (172.4)
Net borrowings at the end of the year       (108.2) (145.4)
c) Analysis of net debt
 Borrowings and ﬁnance
 leases due
  Cash and cash within one after more Total 
  equivalent  year  than one year  net debt 
  £m  £m  £m  £m
At 1 January 2011 120.4  (13.2) (252.6) (145.4) 
Net debt acquired      (2.5) (2.5) 
Cash ﬂow excluding settlement of currency derivatives  
  hedging balance sheet 22.3  (0.1) 16.1  38.3  
Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 5.6      5.6  
Other currency translation differences (0.8)   (3.4) (4.2)
At 31 December 2011 147.5  (13.3) (242.4) (108.2)
 
24.  Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
 2011 2010
  Land and   Land and  
  buildings  Others  buildings  Others 
  £m  £m  £m  £m
Within one year  21.0  5.2   16.1  4.9  
In the second to ﬁfth year  37.6  12.2   30.7  9.9   
After ﬁve years  23.4  -  26.7  1.5  
  82.0  17.4   73.5  16.3   
 
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its ofﬁce properties. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 122
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25.  Commitments
Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to 
£7.3m (2010: £6.1m).
 
26.  Contingencies
Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £95m 
(2010: £86m).
 
27.  Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note.  Executive directors are considered to be the key management personnel.  
Remuneration is as follows:
       
  2011  2010  
   £m £m
Short term employee beneﬁts  5.2 2.1  
Contributions to executive retirement plan  - 1.8  
Share-based payment   6.0  2.8 
Total   11.2  6.7 
 
Short-term employee beneﬁts comprise salary and beneﬁts earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. 
There are no other related party transactions. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
We have audited the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which 
comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes C1 to C11. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68 the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.  In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements.   
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 required us to report to you 
if, in our opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
John C Flaherty (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
Birmingham
1 March 2012
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to 
the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 124
at 31 December 2011
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
        2011  2010  
     Note £m  £m 
Fixed Assets       
Investments     C6 574.0  574.0 
Current assets       
Debtors (including £1.9m due after more than one year (2010: £9.2m))  C7 27.6  31.2  
Cash at bank and in hand       0.9  0.8 
        28.5  32.0 
Creditors:       
amounts falling due within one year       
Other creditors     C8 (50.6) (48.6)
Net current liabilities       (22.1) (16.6)
Total assets less current liabilities       551.9  557.4 
Creditors:       
amounts falling due after more than one year       
Borrowings     C9 (22.4) (22.9)
Net assets       529.5  534.5 
Capital and reserves       
Called up share capital     C10 85.0  85.0  
Share premium account     C10 169.3  168.1  
Capital redemption reserve     C10 7.9  7.9  
Proﬁt and loss account     C10 267.3  273.5   
Equity shareholders’ funds       529.5  534.5 
       
Approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Robert Quarta   
Chairman       GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C1.  Signiﬁcant accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items considered material in relation to 
the ﬁnancial statements, except where otherwise noted below:
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK 
accounting standards except for certain ﬁnancial instruments as deﬁned by FRS26 ‘Financial instruments: measurement’ 
which are stated at fair value.
The Company has not presented a separate proﬁt and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under FRS1 ‘Cash ﬂow statements’, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ﬂow statement on 
the grounds that the Company is included in its own published consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 ‘Related party disclosures’ and has not 
disclosed transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group.  Related party transactions 
with the Company’s key management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67 and in note 
27 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.  The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group ﬁnancial 
statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation included in the proﬁt and loss account.
Investments
The Company’s cost of investment in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and 
either (b) the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies or 
(c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the proﬁt for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items 
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise 
required by FRS19.
Financial instruments
The principal ﬁnancial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps.  These instruments are used for 
hedging purposes in line with the Group’s risk management policy.  Interest differentials are taken to net interest in the 
proﬁt and loss account.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is 
eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting proﬁt or loss recognised at that time.
Equity and equity-related compensation beneﬁts
The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation beneﬁts as set out in note 20 to the Group 
ﬁnancial statements.  The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options are 
recharged to the principal employing company.
When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, UITF41 ‘Scope of FRS20’ and UITF44 ‘Group 
and Treasury Share Transactions’ states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through its 
subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary by the parent. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 126
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary as this recharge 
is considered to form part of the determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the share-based 
payment arrangement.   Accordingly, there is no overall increase in the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Company’s 
ﬁnancial statements.  The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, 
excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, proﬁtability and sales growth targets).  Non-market 
vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.   
The fair value of the options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.  
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and 
share premium when the options are exercised.
Treasury shares
The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares is charged directly to retained earnings  
in the year of purchase.  If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares is 
transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
Dividends or shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.  Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are 
disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements.
 
C2.  Remuneration of directors
The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options are shown in the audited section 
of the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67.
C3.  Remuneration of auditors
The detailed information concerning auditor’s remuneration is shown in note 7 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
 
C4.  Staff numbers and costs
The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during the year was 27 (2010: 25) all of whom were 
employed in administrative roles. The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
The Company participates in the IMI Pension Fund, which is a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in which the assets are held 
independently.  The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes and 
consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b) the Company is required to account for pension costs as if the 
scheme were a deﬁned contribution scheme.  Note 19 to the Group ﬁnancial statements provides further details regarding 
the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme.
C1.  Signiﬁcant accounting policies (continued) 
Equity and equity-related compensation beneﬁts (continued) GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C5.  Dividends             
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:      
   2011  2010  
  £m  £m
Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but 
      not recognised as liabilities in that year  53.9  42.2  
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year  34.9   28.7 
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the ﬁnancial year  88.8   70.9
 
Dividends paid in the year of £88.8m respresent 28.0p per share (2010: 22.2p).
 
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
  2011   2010  
  £m  £m
19.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2010: 17.0p)  60.3   53.9 
 
Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the ﬁnal dividend paid.  This is a result of the ﬁnal number 
of qualifying shares entitled to dividend differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
 
C6.  Fixed assets - investments
 Subsidiary undertakings
 Shares Loans Total 
 £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 at cost and net book value 170.1 403.9  574.0 
Details of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011 are shown on pages 130 and 131. 
 
C7.  Debtors
  2011   2010  
    £m   £m 
Falling due for payment within one year:      
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  24.1  17.3  
Prepayments and accrued income  0.4  0.4  
Deferred tax   - 3.3  
Other ﬁnancial assets  1.2   1.0  
  25.7   22.0 
 
Falling due for payment after one year:       
Deferred tax  -   6.4  
Other ﬁnancial assets  1.9   2.8 
  1.9   9.2
  27.6   31.2 
 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements 128
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
C8.  Other creditors falling due within one year
    2011  2010  
    £m £m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings   49.2    46.9  
Other payables  0.9    0.8  
Accruals and deferred income  0.5    0.9 
    50.6    48.6
C9.  Borrowings        
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.   
For more information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18 in the Group 
ﬁnancial statements.
  2011   2010  
  £m  £m
Due after more than one year:       
Unsecured US loan notes 2014  22.4    22.9 
 
Terms and debt repayment schedule 
   2011   2010  
    £m  £m
Debt can be analysed as falling due:       
  Between two and three years  22.4   -  
  Between three and four years  -   22.9   
  22.4   22.9 
           GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C10.  Share capital and reserves 
      
  Share Share Redemption Retained Parent 
  capital premium reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010  84.9  166.6  7.9   170.6  430.0  
Retained proﬁt for the year        197.8  197.8  
Shares issued in the year  0.1  1.5      1.6  
Dividends paid*         (70.9) (70.9) 
Share-based payments         5.5  5.5  
Shares held in trust for employee share schemes*        (29.5) (29.5)
At 31 December 2010  85.0  168.1  7.9   273.5  534.5   
        
Retained proﬁt for the year       81.5  81.5  
Shares issued in the year  -  1.2      1.2  
Dividends paid*         (88.8) (88.8) 
Share-based payments         8.9  8.9  
Shares held in trust for employee share schemes*       (7.8) (7.8)
At 31 December 2011  85.0  169.3  7.9   267.3  529.5 
 
 
Share capital              2011  2010  
             £m £m
Authorised    
480.0m (2010: 480.0m) ordinary shares of 25p each 120.0 120.0  
Issued and fully paid      
340.2m (2010: 339.9m) ordinary shares of 25p each  85.0 85.0  
During the year 0.3m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £1.2m.
* Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in note 22 to the Group ﬁnancial 
statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C5.
 
C11.  Contingencies
Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £70.0m (2010: 
£64.8m).
There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of 
its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its 
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.  In this respect, the 
Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company 
will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company, as parent of the IMI Group, has contingent liabilities in respect of contingencies within the Group as 
described in note 26 to the Group ﬁnancial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130 Subsidiary undertakings
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
The principal subsidiary undertakings listed are those which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the ﬁgures 
shown in the ﬁnancial statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Annual Return of IMI plc  
to be ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies during 2012. Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries 
incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which 
each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, 
except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held 
directly by IMI plc.
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these 
Group ﬁnancial statements.  The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the 
Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership  
to these ﬁnancial statements.  Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been ﬁled at  
Companies House.
 
Fluid Controls
Aero Dynamiek BV  Netherlands
Asterm SAS  France
Buschjost GmbH  Germany
CCI AG  Switzerland
CCI America du Sol Comerico de 
  Equipamentos Industrials Ltda  Brazil
CCI Czech Republic sro  Czech Republic
CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co. Ltd    
  China
CCI Italy srl  Italy
CCI KK  Japan
CCI Ltd  Korea
CCI Valve Technology AB  Sweden
CCI Valve Technology GmbH  Austria
Control Components Inc  USA
Control Components India Pty Ltd  India
Eley Ltd
Engineering Appliances Ltd
Flow Design Inc  USA
Fluid Automation Systems GmbH    
  Germany
Fluid Automation Systems SA   
  Switzerland
Fluid Automation Systems Technologies  
  SA  Switzerland
Herion Systemtechnik GmbH  Germany
Hochdruck-Reduziertechnik GmbH
  Germany
IMI Components Inc  USA
IMI Components Ltd
IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai)
  Co Ltd  China
IMI International Kft  Hungary
IMI International LLC  Russia
IMI International sro  Czech Republic
IMI International Sp z.o.o.  Poland 
IMI Norgren Herion Pvt Ltd  India
IMI Norgren Oy  Finland
IMI Norgren SA  Spain
IMI Norgren SA de CV  Mexico
IMI Scott Ltd
IMI Webber Ltd
Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides    
  SAS  France
Newman Hattersley Ltd  Canada
Norgren A/S  Denmark
Norgren AG  Switzerland
Norgren AS  Norway
Norgren Automation Solutions LLC  USA
Norgren BV  Netherlands
Norgren Co Ltd  China
Norgren European Logistics Company   
  Ltd
Norgren GesmbH  Austria
Norgren GmbH  Germany
Norgren GT Development Corporation  
  Inc USA
Norgren Inc  USA
Norgren Kloehn Inc  USA
Norgren Ltd
Norgren Ltd  Hong Kong
Norgren Ltd  New Zealand
Norgren Ltda  Brazil
Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd  China
Norgren Manufacturing de Mexico SA
 de CV  Mexico
Norgren NV  Belgium
Norgren Pte Ltd  Singapore
Norgren Pty Ltd  Australia
Norgren SAS  France
Norgren SpA  Italy
Norgren Sweden AB  Sweden
Orton srl  Italy
Pneumatex & CIE NV  Belgium
Pneumatex BV  Netherlands
Pneumatex GmbH  Germany
Pneumatex SARL  France
Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment
 Co Ltd  China (70%)
Stainless Steel Fasteners Ltd
STI srl  Italy
TA Heimeier GmbH  Germany
TA Hydronics AB  Sweden
TA Hydronics AS  Norway
TA Hydronics BV  Netherlands
TA Hydronics GesmbH  Austria
TA Hydronics Ltd
TA Hydronics Oy  Finland
TA Hydronics SA  France
TA Hydronics SA  Switzerland
TA Hydronics Switzerland AG   
  Switzerland
TA Isitma ve Havalandirma Sanayi     
  Ticaret ve Servis Limited irketi  Turkey
TA Regulator d.o.o  Slovenia
Th Jansen-Armaturen Gmbh  Germany
Thompson Valves Ltd
Tour & Andersson A/S  Denmark
Tour & Andersson NV/SA  Belgium
Tour & Andersson SA  Spain
Truﬂo Marine Ltd
Truﬂo Rona SA  Belgium
Zimmermann & Jansen Technologies 
 GmbH  Germany
Zimmermann & Jansen Inc  USA GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011
The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees at 31 December 2011 and is not required to be audited. 
United Kingdom 2,554 
Continental Europe 6,494 
Americas 4,709 
Asia/Paciﬁc  1,859 
Others 82    
Total 15,698  
* This entity holds debt listed on the ofﬁcial list of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES
3Wire Group Inc  USA
Artform International Inc  USA
Artform International Ltd
Cannon Equipment Company  USA
DCI Marketing Inc  USA
Display Technologies LLC  USA
IMI Cornelius España SA  Spain 
IMI Cornelius Europe SA  Belgium
IMI Cornelius (Paciﬁc) Ltd  Hong Kong
IMI Cornelius (Tianjin) Co Ltd  China
IMI Cornelius (UK) Ltd
IMI Cornelius Australia Pty Ltd  Australia
IMI Cornelius de Mexico SA de CV   
  Mexico
IMI Cornelius Deutschland GmbH   
  Germany
IMI Cornelius Hellas SA  Greece
IMI Cornelius Inc  USA
IMI Cornelius Italia srl  Italy
IMI Cornelius Österreich GesmbH   
  Austria
IMI Cornelius (Singapore) Pte Ltd    
  Singapore
IMI Cornelius Ukraine LLC  Ukraine
IMI Manufacturing de Mexico SA de   
  CV  Mexico
IMI Group Ltd
IMI Kynoch Ltd
IMI Overseas Investments Ltd* 
IMI Property Investments Ltd
IMI Americas Inc  USA
IMI Overseas Holdings Inc  USA 
IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co KG 
  Germany
Brookvale International Insurance Ltd
  Bermuda
Retail Dispense
Corporate FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
132 Five year summary
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
   2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
  £m £m £m £m £m
Income statement           
Revenue 1,599  1,901  1,792  1,911  2,131 
Segmental revenue* 1,599  1,897  1,785  1,917  2,135 
Segmental operating proﬁt* 207.8  266.3  234.2  319.7  374.1 
Adjusted proﬁt before tax* 205.5  254.7  211.7  304.4  363.4  
Restructuring costs (22.0) (19.6) (34.9) (16.0) (23.5) 
Employee beneﬁt curtailment           
  - UK scheme -  -  -  15.1  -  
Investigation costs and ﬁnes (4.9) (26.3) -  -  -  
Acquired intangible amortisation           
  and impairment (10.9) (13.2) (7.2) (7.0) (32.3) 
Other income 1.7  -  -  -  -  
Financial instruments excluding           
  economic hedge contracts 
  gains/(losses) 1.6  (19.6) 16.6  9.6  (6.2)
Proﬁt before tax from continuing          
operations 171.0  176.0  186.2  306.1  301.4 
EBITDA† 220  269  262  369  392 
* before exceptional items             
† earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and 
other income.
Group sales by destination
   2007  2008  2009  2010  2011   
 £m £m £m £m £m
UK 188  183  132  141  136  
Germany 209  266  234  261  296  
Rest of Europe 423  533  524  542  577  
USA 460  517  491  543  580  
Asia/Paciﬁc 202  249  278  285  319  
Rest of World 117  149  126  145  227 
   1,599  1,897  1,785  1,917  2,135 
Reversal of economic                
  hedge contract losses/(gains) -  4  7  (6) (4) 
   1,599  1,901  1,792  1,911  2,131 
Continuing operations
Revenue £m
07 08 09 10 11
1,599
1,901
1,792
1,911
2,131
07 08 09 10 11
205
255
212
304
363
Adjusted proﬁt before tax* £m
2011 sales by  
geographic destination**
** before reversal of economic 
hedge contract gains and losses
Asia/
Paciﬁc
15%
RoW
11%
UK
6%
Germany
14%
USA
27%
Rest of Europe
27% GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011
Earnings and dividends 
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011 
Adjusted earnings per share (pre-restructuring) 41.9p 54.1p 45.8p 66.3p 81.5p  
Earnings per share 35.4p 35.4p 40.8p 70.4p 63.2p  
Ordinary dividend per share 20.2p 20.7p 21.2p 26.0p 30.0p
 
Balance sheet            
  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
  £m £m £m £m £m
Segmental net assets 771  973  850  985  997  
Other non-operating liabilities (excluding borrowings) (125) (212) (276) (264) (275) 
Net debt (233) (299) (172) (145) (108)
Net assets 413  462  402  576  614 
 
Statistics            
  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011 
Segmental operating proﬁt as a percentage of   
  segmental revenue 13.0% 14.0% 13.1% 16.7% 17.5% 
 
Segmental operating proﬁt as a percentage of           
  segmental net assets 27.0% 27.4% 27.6% 32.5% 37.5% 
 
Effective tax rate 31.1% 31.0% 30.0% 30.0% 28.0% 
 
Net assets per share (excluding treasury shares) 128.1p 144.4p 126.1p 180.5p 193.5p  
 
Net debt as a percentage           
  of shareholders’ funds 57.3% 66.0% 43.0% 27.7% 19.2% 
 
Net debt: EBITDA 1.1  1.1  0.7  0.4  0.3  
 
EBITDA: Interest 17  17  14  24  23  134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Shareholder information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Announcement of trading results
The trading results for the Group for the ﬁrst half of 2012 will be announced on 23 August 2012.
The trading results for the full year ending 31 December 2012 will be announced in March 2013.
Interim management statements will be issued in April and November 2012.
Dividend payment
Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid as follows:
Interim: mid October
Final: mid May
Share prices and capital gains tax
The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2011 was 760.00p 
(2010: 945.00p).
The market value of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 March 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax purposes, was 
53.5p per share.
The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443.
Enquiries about shareholdings
For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar:
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0871 384 2916, or from overseas, 
+44 121 415 7047.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT 
landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Corporate Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
By arrangement with Equiniti Financial Services Limited, an IMI single company ISA is now being operated. A brochure, 
application form and further information can be obtained by contacting the Equiniti ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT 
landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Share Dealing Service
Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s Registrar, the IMI plc Share Dealing Service provides shareholders with a simple  
way of buying and selling IMI ordinary shares. Telephone 08456 037 037. Full written details can be obtained from the 
Secretary’s Department, IMI plc, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ. 
Telephone 0121 717 3700.
American Depository Receipts
IMI plc have an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter (OTC) market in  
the US. ADR enquiries are directed to Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, RI 02940-3077, USA. 
Toll-free number in the USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237), or email citibank@shareholders-online.com.
Ordinary shareholders
 Number of   Balance as at 
Range holdings % 31 December 2011 %
1-500 shares 6,101  34.93  1,664,876  0.52  
501-1,000 shares 4,910  28.11  3,631,040  1.13  
1,001-10,000 shares 5,749  32.92  13,294,512  4.14  
10,001-100,000 shares 406  2.32  14,065,454  4.38  
100,001-Highest 300  1.72  288,412,918  89.83  
Total 17,466  100.00  321,068,800  100.00  
19,124,700 treasury shares are excluded from the above totals. GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GENERAL INFORMATION
Headquarters and registered ofﬁce 
Lakeside 
Solihull Parkway 
Birmingham Business Park 
Birmingham   
B37 7XZ 
Telephone: 0121 717 3700
Website address 
www.imiplc.com
Secretary 
John O’Shea
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Telephone: 0871 384 2916*  
Or from overseas, +44 121 415 7047 
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday
Solicitors 
Pinsent Masons LLP 
3 Colmore Circus 
Birmingham   
B4 6BH
Stockbrokers 
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
10 Aldermanbury  
London   
EC2V 7RF
Auditor 
Ernst & Young LLP  
No. 1 Colmore Square  
Birmingham  
B4 6HQ  
 
IMI plc is registered in England  
No. 714275
*Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.  Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London   
E1 6AO
 
Citi 
33 Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 5LB 136
IMI PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
IMI plc Annual Report 2011
INDEX
Accounting policies 75-84
Annual general meeting 41 
At-a-glance 2-3
Audit Committee 44 
Auditor’s remuneration 92 
Auditor’s reports 69, 123
Balance sheet 72 
Board of Directors 36-37
Borrowing facilities 98, 102-104
Business review 20-21
Cash ﬂow statement 74 
Chairman’s statement 16-17
Chief Executive’s review 18-19
Corporate governance 42-47
Deferred tax 96-97
Directors  
Interests 67 
Remuneration summary 63
Report 38-41
Responsibility statement 68
Dividends 38,120
Donations 40 
Earnings per share 94 
Employees 94, 131 
Environment 15, 29-31
Executive Committee 45 
Financial review 22-27
Five year summary 132-133
General information 135 
Geographic distribution of employees 131 
Going concern 27 
Goodwill 95 
Health and safety 15, 29-30, 40
Income statement 70 
Intangible assets 95 
Interest income and expense 91-92
Internal control 47
Inventories 97
Key performance indicators 14-15
Nominations Committee 45
Outlook 19 
Pensions 108-114
People 8-9
Principal risks and uncertainties 34-35
Property, plant and equipment 96 
Registrars 134-135 
Remuneration Committee 45 
Remuneration report 48-67
Research and development 38 
Responsible business report 30-33
Segmental information 85-87
Share capital 38-39, 119-120
Shareholder information 134 
Strategy 4-5
Fluid technologies 6-7
Growth drivers 10-13
Niche leadership 8-9
Statement of changes in equity 73 
Statement of comprehensive income 71
Subsidiary undertakings 130-131
Substantial shareholdings 39 
Taxation 93 
The IMI Way 28-29
Treasury policy 26-27 
Total Shareholder Return 56-58 
Website 135  Printed on Revive Pure White Silk - a recycled paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill that has been awarded  
the ISO140001 certificate for environmental management.  The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free (TCF) process.
  IMI plc 
Lakeside 
Solihull Parkway 
Birmingham Business Park 
Birmingham B37 7XZ 
United Kingdom
www.imiplc.com
