 Premium building and engineering  
products for global markets
The Alumasc Group plc 
Report and Accounts 2014 The Alumasc Group
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
Alumasc is a UK based supplier of premium building and  
precision engineering products. The majority of the group’s 
business is in the area of sustainable building products, which 
enable customers to manage energy and water use in the built 
environment. We believe that growth rates in these sectors, 
through the construction cycle, will exceed UK industry averages.
All Alumasc businesses have strong UK market positions within their individual market  
niches and several are market leaders. Alumasc sustains this strong strategic positioning  
by offering customers quality products, service and trust. For certain brands, Alumasc is 
seeking to leverage UK successes in international markets, with particular focus in North 
America, parts of the Middle East and Far East, and Europe. 
Alumasc fosters an entrepreneurial, achievement orientated culture whereby businesses  
are encouraged to innovate and respond quickly to local market needs within a cohesive 
group strategic and management framework. Alumasc businesses also benefit from the 
group’s financial strength and access to capital.
Inside your  
Report and Accounts…
01 Financial highlights
02 Alumasc at a glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive’s Strategic  
 and Performance Overview
08 Building Products’ Divisional Strategy  
 and Business Model
09 Progress against Building Products’  
 Divisional Strategy
10 Chief Executive’s Review of Operations
13 Financial Review
16 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
18 Corporate and Social Responsibility
Strategic Report
45 Independent Auditor’s Report 
48 Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income
49 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
50 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
51 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
52 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
81 Company Balance Sheet
82 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
92 Five Year Summary
94 Notice of Annual General Meeting
97 Appendix
100 Major Product Groups and Operating Locations
Financial Statements & Company Information
20 Board of Directors and Company Advisors
22 Directors’ Report
27 Statement of Corporate Governance
29 Audit Committee Report
33 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Governance
The latest online... 
Certain information and topics may be covered in greater  
detail online. The arrow above indicates where further detail  
may be found.
Other information is outside the scope of this report, but  
may be found on or accessed through the Alumasc website,  
www.alumasc.co.uk
www.alumasc.co.uk The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
113.4 2014
87.5 2010
106.8 2011
110.6 2012
116.8 2013
Strategic Report
Financial highlights
Forward-looking statements
This Report includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those predicted by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include international, 
national and local economic and market conditions, as well as competition. The company undertakes no obligation to  
publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
  2013/14 2012/13**
Revenue (£m)   113.4 116.8
Underlying profit before tax (£m)*   6.3 5.9 
Underlying earnings per share (pence)*   13.3 12.3
Profit before tax (£m)   5.1 2.8 
Basic earnings per share (pence)   11.3 5.3
Dividends per share (pence)   5.0 4.5
Net debt at 30 June (£m)   7.7 7.7
* Underlying profits and earnings are stated prior to the deduction of IAS19 (revised) pension costs of £0.9 million (2012/13: £1.4 million), 
brand amortisation of £0.3 million (2012/13: £0.3 million), restructuring and acquisition costs of £nil (2012/13: £0.8 million) and 
impairment charges of £nil (2012/13: £0.6 million).
** 2012/13 figures have been re-stated in accordance with IAS19 (revised) relating to pension costs. 
01
Revenue  
(continuing operations) £m
Net debt 
£m
7.7 2014
9.3 2010
10.7 2011
13.2 2012
7.7 2013
Underlying earnings per share  
(continuing operations) pence
2014 13.3
2013
9.1 2010
9.8 2011
3.6 2012
12.3
Dividends per share  
pence
10.0
10.0
2010
2011
2014
4.5 2013
2.0 2012
5.0
Total shareholder return  
(Indexed)
Source: Perfect Information
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
June 2009 June 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014
Alumasc Group
FTSE All Share Construction & Materials Index
FTSE All Share The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
02
Operating segments
Solar shading and screening
Roofing and walling
 
Key product groups
Solar shading and screening
Waterproofing systems
Green roofing
Roofing services support systems
Insulated render systems
Operating segments
Construction products
Rainwater, drainage and house building products
Key product groups
Engineered access covers
Line drainage systems
Roof, shower and floor drainage systems
Metal rainwater systems
Ventilation products, access panels, cavity trays
Building and access products
Interior casing systems
Water management products promote  
the more efficient use, retention,  
recycling and disposal of water within  
the built environment.
Alumasc Precision supplies high quality, 
precision engineered and machined  
aluminium and zinc die cast components  
to OEM customers mainly operating in the  
off-highway diesel, premium automotive  
and industrial sectors.
Operating segments
Alumasc Precision
 
Key product groups
Timing cases
Sumps
Valve cover bases
Actuator components
Interior vehicle trim components
Audio system components
Lighting system components
Principal brands
Levolux (Solar shading and screening)
www.levolux.com
Euroroof (Roofing)
Hydrotech (Roofing)
Derbigum (Roofing)
BluRoof (Roofing)
www.alumascwaterproofing.co.uk
Blackdown Greenroofs (Roofing)
www.blackdown.co.uk
Roof-Pro Systems (Roofing)
www.roof-pro.co.uk
Alumasc Insulated Renders (Walling)
www.alumascfaçades.co.uk
Principal brands
Gatic (Engineered access covers)
www.gatic.com
Gatic Slotdrain (Line drainage systems)
www.gatic.com/slotdrain
Alumasc Rainwater (Metal rainwater systems)
www.alumascrainwater.co.uk
Rainclear (Rainwater and drainage systems)
www.rainclear.co.uk
Harmer (Roof, shower and floor drainage
systems) www.harmerdrainage.co.uk
Timloc (Ventilation products, 
access panels/doors, cavity closers)
www.timloc.co.uk
SCP (Building and access products)
www.scp-props.co.uk
Pendock (Interior casing systems)
www.pendock.co.uk
Principal brands
Alumasc Precision Components
www.alumasc-precision.co.uk
Dyson Diecasting
www.dyson-diecasting.co.uk
Building products
Engineering products
Water management & other
Energy management products are designed 
either to increase the efficiency of, or 
to reduce energy use within, the built 
environment, improve the life cycle costs  
of a building, and in some cases improve  
the comfort of building occupants.
Energy management
Strategic Report
Alumasc at a glance 
Divisional, Segmental and Principal Brand Analysis The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
03 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Contribution to Group revenue Major markets
UK
North America
Middle East
France
Revenue (£m)
83.5 2014
64.5 2010
71.2 2011
74.9 2012
88.3 2013
Underlying operating profit (£m)
8.3 2014
5.4 2010
3.9 2011
4.4 2012
8.4 2013
Underlying operating margin (%)
10.0 2014
8.3 2010
5.5 2011
5.9 2012
9.5 2013
New products
Levolux lighting control systems
BluRoof
Surefoot support systems
Alumasc base coat render
Alumasc facades Vented System
£43.3m
38.2%
Contribution to Group revenue Major markets
UK
Middle East 
Hong Kong & Singapore
North America 
New products
Assist Lift access covers
Pro Slot line drainage
Gatic Trench Drain
Bespoke & contemporary Alumasc rainwater ranges
AX range of Alumasc aluminium rainwater systems
Harmer stainless steel floor drains
Major customers
Caterpillar  TRW
Perkins Lawrence  Orangebox
Deutz  Automotive
Rotork  Jaguar
GPM Bentley
£40.2m
35.4%
Contribution to Group revenue*
£31.0m
27.4%
-0.2 2014
-0.5
-0.8
3.0 2011
1.0 2010
2012
2013
Underlying operating profit/loss (£m)
31.0 2014
24.0 2010
36.7 2011
36.8 2012
29.4 2013
Revenue* (£m)
* Note: prior to the elimination of intercompany sales  
to the Building Products division.
Major markets 
UK 
USA 
Germany The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
04
Our Engineering Products division reduced 
operating losses further, from £0.5 million  
in 2013 to £0.2 million in 2014, but failed  
to achieve the targeted return to profitability. 
This was despite another excellent performance 
by Dyson Diecastings and generally more 
favourable market demand. There was  
further progress in the recovery at Alumasc 
Precision Components, not least in its service  
to customers.
Strategy
For a number of years, the strategy of Alumasc 
has been to optimise the performance of each 
business while seeking actively to grow our 
presence in the markets for sustainable building 
products. The financial crisis, still felt by many 
sectors of the UK economy after six years, 
has had an inevitable impact on our progress. 
Despite this, there are references elsewhere 
in this Strategic Report to the consistent 
management actions taken in recent years 
to develop and innovate our products and 
markets, while strengthening our management 
teams, and to the outperformance achieved  
as a result.
Against this backdrop, it is pleasing to observe 
a general improvement in the prospects for  
the large majority of our businesses. This  
is a welcome development as the Board 
refreshes its appraisal of where the best 
opportunities lie for directing our resources  
in building value for shareholders and may  
lead to an acceleration and focusing of our 
strategy for growth, discussed in greater  
detail later in this review.
Results
Alumasc continued to build on the recovery  
of the prior year, growing underlying profit 
before tax to £6.3 million (2013: £5.9 million), 
the highest for five years and in line with  
our expectations. This reflects a continuing  
out-performance by the group’s Building 
Products division against the background  
of modest growth in UK construction activity.
The growth in profit was matched by another 
strong cash performance. As a result, the  
Board is recommending a final dividend  
of 2.8 pence per share (2013: 2.5 pence),  
to give a total for the year of 5 pence  
(2013: 4.5 pence), an increase of 11%.
Trading
The underlying operating profit from our 
Building Products division of £8.3 million 
(2013: £8.4 million) was a good result in the 
light of market conditions and the greater 
contribution from major construction projects 
in the prior year. While the much publicised 
recovery in new-build housing was a welcome 
boost, the group’s major commercial market 
place did little more than stabilise in the  
UK during the year and remains some  
30% below the pre-recession level of 2008.
Board
Keith Walden, who stepped in to be  
Chairman of Alumasc Precision Limited  
two years ago, retires from the Board  
following the announcement of these results.  
I am immensely grateful to Keith for his 
support during this period and his continuing 
presence as a non-executive director of the 
Engineering division will be greatly appreciated.
I am delighted to announce the appointment 
of David Armfield to the Board of The Alumasc 
Group, with effect from 1 October 2014.  
David began his career as a solicitor at Wilde 
Sapte, moved to Lehman Brothers, in its 
Investment Banking group in 1987 and later 
became a Partner at PwC, where he led their 
Industrial Corporate Finance Team. With his 
increasing specialisation in the emerging fields 
of the Cleantech Industry and Renewable 
Energy, David became a founding partner  
of Kinetix Corporate Finance LLP, established  
in 2010 to provide corporate finance services 
to businesses seeking to grow in these fields.  
I am certain that David’s experience will be  
of great value to the group in the pursuit  
of its growth ambitions. 
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Alumasc continued to build on 
the recovery of the prior year 
and against this backdrop it  
is pleasing to observe a general 
improvement in the prospects 
for the large majority of  
our business. 
John McCall
Chairman The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
05 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Alumasc’s rainwater, drainage and house 
building products businesses achieved 
record results in the year.
The analysis on pages 8 and 
9 illustrates the consistent 
management actions taken  
in recent years to develop and 
innovate our products and 
markets, while strengthening  
our management teams,  
and to the outperformance  
achieved as a result.
John McCall
Chairman
www.alumasc.co.uk
Prospects
There is evidence that the recovery in demand 
in the UK construction sector is becoming 
more widespread. In particular, the private 
commercial sector is forecast to grow steadily 
from its still diminished base. This will benefit 
the group and will hopefully be complemented 
by an equally steady growth in specification  
for our products in export markets. Against this 
background, it is reasonable to look for further 
progress in the coming year.
John McCall
Chairman
Building Products Division –  
Orders in Hand (£m)
Kitimat Building Products Division 
(Excluding Kitimat)
25
20
15
10
5
Jun 
2013
Sep 
2013
Dec
2013
Mar 
2014
Jun
2014
0
Note: a reconciliation of underlying  
to reported profit is provided on page 14. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
06
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Strategic and Performance Overview
Alumasc reported its highest  
annual profit for five years,  
with underlying profit before  
tax advancing to £6.3 million,  
statutory profit before tax  
increasing substantially to  
£5.1 million and basic earnings  
per share more than doubling  
to 11.3 pence.
Paul Hooper 
Chief Executive
 (a) extending our international reach as  
  evidenced by a growing underlying trend  
  of export sales (in 2013/14, exports  
  amounted to some 13% of divisional
  sales, with enquiries for export contracts  
  at record levels at the year end); and
 
 (b) investing in innovation and new product  
  development as described further in the  
  Review of Operations on page 10;
• we continue to invest in people and  
 innovation to underpin delivery of the  
 medium to longer term growth potential  
 of our business. The associated average  
 annual charge absorbed within our operating  
 profit over the last five years amounted  
 to £0.6 million, with a similar investment  
 planned for our 2014/15 financial year.
Health and Safety
The group’s number one priority continues 
to be providing a safe place of work for our 
employees. Progress has been made during 
the year in ensuring our strong health and 
safety ethos is fully embedded throughout our 
businesses. Our principal health and safety KPI, 
the performance rate index, was 4.9 versus 3.5 
in the previous year. The increase was mainly 
due to a specific incident in the Engineering 
Products division which resulted in a number 
of days being lost earlier in the year. However 
the 2013/14 PRI result was better than two 
years ago and in previous years and is therefore 
consistent with the longer term trend of 
improvement in the group’s health and safety 
performance over time. We were successful  
in increasing the reporting of near miss 
incidents throughout the group during  
Strategic overview
Alumasc’s strategic priorities are to:
• continue to invest in and grow our market
 leading portfolio of building products  
 businesses, both organically and through  
 acquisition; and
• continue to improve shareholder value 
 from the Engineering Products division. 
In the light of generally improving prospects, 
the Board is refreshing its appraisal of 
where Alumasc’s best opportunities lie for 
directing our resources in building value for 
shareholders. This may lead to further focusing 
of our strategy for growth described in more 
detail in the pages that follow. 
The business model and KPIs for Alumasc’s 
building products activities, which represent 
approximately 75% of group revenues, are  
set out on pages 8 to 9. 
This demonstrates: 
• strong positioning in sustainable building  
 products markets which, combined with  
 high quality management teams and  
 a devolved operating model, is allowing  
 us consistently to outperform growth rates  
 in the UK construction market;
• success in expanding our Building Products  
 division through:
the year and we are using this information 
to take action to prevent potential future 
accidents. We have also taken specific action  
to update and strengthen risk assessments, 
safe systems of work and training in those 
areas of our businesses judged to be those 
capable of causing the most serious accidents. 
Performance overview
The Board is pleased to report the group’s 
highest annual profit for five years. Underlying 
profit before tax advanced to £6.3 million 
compared with £5.9 million last year and 
statutory profit before tax increased substantially 
to £5.1 million (2012/13: £2.8 million).
This result was underpinned by strong 
growth in our “early cycle” building products 
businesses as the UK construction market 
began to recover, particularly those businesses 
serving the house building and refurbishment 
markets, and by a reduction in operating losses 
in our Engineering Products division. Underlying 
profit before tax was also assisted by reduced 
bank interest costs, as Alumasc’s average level 
of net borrowings was the lowest since the 
acquisition of Levolux in 2007. Statutory profit 
before tax benefited from lower non-recurring 
charges in 2013/14, as described further below.
Group revenues reduced to £113.4 million 
(2012/13: £116.8 million) mainly as a result 
of a lower level of activity on the significant 
£13 million aluminium smelter refurbishment 
project at Kitimat in Canada, where our works 
are now drawing towards completion, and the 
non-repeat of high prior year sales of insulated 
renders to Community Energy Savings Plan 
(“CESP”) projects that ceased early in 2013.  The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
07 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Performance Overview
  2013/14 2012/13
Revenue (£m)  113.4 116.8
Underlying operating profit (£m)  6.8 6.6
Underlying operating margin (%)  6.0 5.7 
Net interest on borrowings (£m)  (0.5) (0.7)
Underlying profit before tax (£m)  6.3 5.9
IAS19 (revised) pension interest, brand amortisation  
and non-recurring items (£m)  (1.2) (3.1)
Profit before tax (£m)  5.1 2.8
Excluding the impact of these projects, the 
remaining Building Products divisional revenues 
grew by 2%. Engineering Products revenues 
increased by 5% overall to £31.0 million 
(2012/13: £29.4 million), following customer 
de-stocking in the prior year. 
Across the group, operating margins  
advanced by 0.3 percentage points compared 
to the prior financial year, mainly as a result  
of management action taken to eliminate 
prior year operating losses in our roofing 
business and to reduce operating losses in 
the Engineering Products division. Margins 
also benefited from successful execution of 
the large Kitimat project and from strong 
performances in our Rainwater, Drainage  
and Timloc businesses, described further  
in the review of operations on page 10. 
Together, this led to an improvement in 
Building Products’ divisional underlying 
operating margins to 10.0% (2012/13: 9.5%). 
The group’s underlying operating profit 
increased to £6.8 million (2012/13: £6.6 
million). In view of the lower Kitimat activity 
and revenues from Energy Company Obligation 
(“ECO”) projects falling well short of prior year 
sales to CESP projects, the Building Products 
division performed well overall in almost 
matching prior year operating profits of  
£8.4 million, thereby achieving management’s 
expectations set at the beginning of the 
financial year. Engineering Products divisional 
operating losses reduced from £0.5 million to 
£0.2 million, with another strong performance 
from Dyson Diecastings and the benefit from 
some additional direct sales in China. 
Interest costs on borrowings reduced by  
£0.2 million to £0.5 million with average levels 
of net debt on a cleared funds basis reducing 
from £13.7 million in the prior financial year  
to £11.1 million in 2013/14.
The resultant group underlying profit  
before tax improved to £6.3 million  
(2012/13: £5.9 million).
A reconciliation of underlying to reported  
profit before tax is shown on page 14.
Reported profit before tax of £5.1 million was 
a significant improvement on the prior year’s 
£2.8 million, mainly due to the non-repeat  
of £0.8 million of restructuring and acquisition 
costs and the £0.6 million impairment charge  
in the prior year. 
Group cash generation for the year was again 
strong with group EBITDA (earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) 
amounting to £9.0 million. A more detailed 
review of the group’s cash flow performance  
is provided in the Financial Review on page 14.
 
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share improved 
from 12.3 pence in 2012/13 to 13.3 pence, 
reflecting the higher underlying profit 
before tax combined with a reduction in the 
underlying tax rate from 26% to 24%, broadly 
in line with the reduction in UK corporation tax 
rates. The average number of shares in issue 
was unchanged in the year.
Reported earnings per share more than 
doubled from 5.3 pence to 11.3 pence,  
again reflecting higher profit before tax  
at a reduced tax rate.
Future prospects
Group order books began to rise again in the 
final quarter of the year driven by an uplift in 
orders for building products. This trend has 
continued to date in the current financial year. 
External industry forecasts for UK construction 
activity are for further recovery and growth.
Against this background, with the strength 
of Alumasc’s niche market positions and 
management teams, and with our ongoing 
investment in innovation, new product 
development and increasing export sales 
opportunities, Alumasc is well positioned  
to further grow its building products activities 
and improve shareholder value from its 
Engineering Products division. 
Dividends
In view of the improved group results for the 
year and strong cash generation, the Board  
is proposing an increased final dividend of  
2.8 pence per share (2012/13: 2.5 pence), to 
be paid on 5 November 2014 to shareholders 
on the register on 10 October 2014. This 
would give a total dividend for the year of 
5.0 pence per share (2012/13: 4.5 pence). 
More broadly, the Board confirms its previous 
intention to grow the dividend in conjunction 
with future earnings growth, having regard  
to the cash required to invest in the business  
to support delivery of the group’s strategic 
growth potential and its pension scheme 
funding commitments. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
08
Strategic Report
Building Products’ Divisional Strategy and Business Model
Strategic objectives
To grow shareholder value through the development of a portfolio of premium building 
products activities, each a leading player in its individual market niche. These activities 
are mainly focused on managing the scarce resources of energy and water in the built 
environment, where we expect growth rates to outperform the UK construction sector  
on average through the economic cycle. 
Market outlook
Market commentators are predicting the UK construction market will recover steadily after  
a period of significant contraction during the recent recession. Alumasc plans to augment  
this opportunity through growth in export sales, particularly in our solar shading and 
construction products businesses, targeting divisional export revenues of 20%  
(currently just above 10%, excluding the Kitimat project) over the medium term. 
Divisional strategy
The divisional strategy is to harness our key strengths of strong market positions, strong 
management teams and well respected brands, together with a culture of innovation,  
service, quality and trust to deliver market leading and differentiated solutions to customers, 
specifiers and end users of buildings. These differentiated solutions should improve our 
capability to command strong margins and operating cash flows.
Divisional business model
The Building Products’ operating model is to recruit, retain, empower and motivate high 
quality, experienced management teams in each of our businesses; to ensure each business 
has an in-depth understanding of its market niche, customer base and routes to market;  
and is able to evolve and adapt rapidly to market developments and exploit opportunities  
for growth. 
Approach 
Management teams are 
encouraged to take an 
entrepreneurial, dynamic 
and innovative approach 
to developing their niche 
market positions. 
Aim
To grow faster than the  
UK construction market, on 
average, generating strong 
operating margins and 
returns on capital and to 
convert this efficiently 
into free cash flow
Re-investment to  
support growth
Throughout the recent 
recession we have re-invested 
c.£0.6 million pa, mainly in 
high quality people to drive 
innovation, new product 
development and further 
penetration of UK and 
international markets.
Operating models 
Operating models are designed to be 
flexible to gear revenues up or down in 
line with short term demand and to keep 
a close control of overheads such that 
the businesses benefit from operational 
gearing, whilst outsourcing capital intensive 
manufacturing activities where appropriate. 
The strategic positioning of our 
Building Products businesses has 
enabled growth to exceed UK 
construction market averages 
during the recession, making us 
well positioned to benefit from 
the forecast broader upturn in 
market activity.  The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
09 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Progress against Building Products’ Divisional Strategy
In order to illustrate underlying trends, the impact of two abnormally large projects (Kitimat and CESP) has been extracted 
from the divisional data. This data illustrates the ongoing success in the execution of our strategy:
• Revenue growth rates are ahead of UK construction market averages
• We are generating strong operating margins, cash flows and returns on investment
• We continue to invest to support future growth
Divisional return on investment is strong,
reflecting the improving profitability 
of the division and the relatively low capital
intensity of our building products businesses.
Alumasc has consistently invested in people
and new product development through the
recession to help underpin continued 
realisation of the medium to longer term 
growth potential of the business.
Post-tax ROI (%)
9.1
14.2
11.4
15.6
8.2
2013/14
2009/10
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
Re-investment to  
Support Growth (£m)
0.7 2013/14
0.2 2009/10
0.8 2010/11
0.7 2011/12
0.4 2012/13
Divisional operating margins and cash  
flows have been growing in conjunction  
with divisional revenues and profits.
Operating Cash Flow (£m)
4.6
4.6
7.5
5.3
7.4 2009/10
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
Underlying Operating Margin (£m)
8.3 2009/10
8.3 2013/14
5.5 2010/11
5.6 2011/12
7.4 2012/13
80.3 2013/14
64.5 2009/10
71.2 2010/11
73.8 +3.7%
+1.6%
+7.0%
+10.4%
2011/12
79.0 2012/13
Revenues (£m) Divisonal revenues have been growing
consistently faster than UK construction
market averages.
UK Construction Output (£bn)
+2.3%
+1.5%
- 8.1%
+8.2%
112.1 2013
108.5 2009
117.4 2010
120.1 2011
110.4 2012
2010 constant prices 
Source: Experian
6.7 2013/14
5.4 2009/10
3.9 2010/11
4.1 2011/12
5.9 2012/13
Underlying Operating Profit £m) Both the Construction Products Association
and Experian are forecasting UK construction
output to grow over the next four years.
Divisional order books are beginning to
increase again (see page 5) ahead of the 
anticipated UK construction market growth 
shown in the chart to the left. Alumasc aims 
to continue its recent track record of growing 
faster than the UK construction market  
on average.
UK Construction Output Forecasts (£bn)
128.3 2016 (F)
112.1 2013 (A)
118.3 2014 (F)
124.0 2015 (F)
+5.5%
+3.5%
+4.8%
2010 constant prices
Source: Experian
Note: Alumasc data relates to financial years ended 30 June. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
10
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Review of Operations
Building Products division
The performance of the division in the year 
benefited from:
• strategic actions taken by our management  
 teams to grow market share through the  
 introduction of new products and services  
 and the penetration of export markets;  
 and 
• the initial stages of a broader recovery in  
 UK construction activity which benefited  
 our Rainwater, Drainage and House Building  
 Products business segment, in particular,  
 during the year.
Solar Shading and Screening
With UK new build commercial construction 
levels still over 30% below their peak in 
2008, Levolux had a relatively quiet year, 
particularly outside London. In preparation 
for the anticipated upturn in activity, the 
opportunity was taken to consolidate certain 
management functions in the UK, strengthen 
regional sales teams and invest further to 
develop the significant international potential 
we see for this business. Levolux’s largest 
construction project during the year was to 
supply and install a sophisticated solar shading 
system incorporating photovoltaic panels to 
a high profile non-commercial building in 
central London. Our works on this project 
were originally expected to be complete in 
April. However, delays beyond our control have 
resulted in completion moving to Autumn 
2014. This major project will be followed later 
in the 2014/15 financial year by another  
multi-million pound, high profile project  
at Chiswick Park in West London. Levolux’s 
strategy to grow export sales, particularly in 
North America, the Middle East and France, 
began to gain traction with enquiry levels  
and order books for export projects going  
into the current financial year reaching new 
record levels. 
Roofing and Walling
Our roofing business had a much improved 
year with its strategy of increased penetration 
of refurbishment markets, spearheaded by the 
resurgent Euroroof waterproofing brand and 
growing sales in London and the South East 
being rewarded by a double digit percentage 
growth in year on year revenues and the 
elimination of prior year operating losses.  
The group’s smaller roofing brands, Blackdown 
and Roof-Pro, were successfully integrated 
into the wider roofing business, yielding both 
revenue and cost synergies.  The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
11 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
 Private commercial
 Non public housing R&M
 Public housing R&M
 Private industrial
 Infrastructure
 Public non-residential
 Private housing
Note: R&M-Repair & Maintenance
Building Products’ Divisional Revenue analysed  
by End Use Segment 2013/14
RAINWATER SYSTEMS
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
Another strong  
performance by Gatic
Gatic had another strong year, particularly  
in the UK market, including the completion  
of a large project at the London Gateway  
port development.
www.alumasc.co.uk
Blackdown Greenroofs had a much better  
year, including the successful delivery of two 
very large projects: the SSE Hydro Arena in 
Glasgow ahead of the Commonwealth Games 
and pictured on the front cover of this report, 
and Greenwich University. Towards the end  
of the year, a new lower cost and more generic 
roofing services support system, Surefoot, was 
launched targeting simpler roofing applications. 
This will broaden the product range and 
complement the bespoke Roof-Pro Systems 
solution. Enquiry levels and order books were 
strong across our roofing brands as we entered 
the current financial year. This included some 
work that had been delayed, again beyond our 
control, from the final quarter of the 2013/14 
financial year.
The £13 million project to supply roofing 
and walling products to the Kitimat smelter 
refurbishment in Canada has been a great 
success and a significant project for the group 
over the last two years. Alumasc’s original 
project was substantially complete by the 
financial year end. However, further work  
was won last Spring, which is now anticipated 
to extend our involvement on site until  
early 2015.
Our walling business, Alumasc Insulated 
Renders, performed with great resilience and 
delivered another strong performance, despite 
a volatile and unpredictable market background 
where government and energy company 
funding for exterior wall insulation projects  
was reduced following the Chancellor’s  
Autumn Statement in 2013. The impact was 
that revenues from ECO-funded schemes 
during the year neither attained the levels 
originally anticipated nor came close to 
matching prior year revenues from the 
predecessor CESP programme. In these 
circumstances, our existing strategy of 
diversifying sales away from those areas reliant 
on government funding proved to be sound. 
Opportunities in the commercial new build 
market were exploited and were assisted by  
the launch of the new Alumasc Base Coat 
product and the Alumasc Vented System  
which helped us to win work in refurbishing 
and improving the insulation of timber-framed 
and pre-fabricated homes.
Construction Products
Gatic had a strong year in the UK market 
including the completion of a large project 
at the London Gateway port development, 
enabling the business to perform well overall. 
This was despite the absence of any large 
projects in the Far East that had contributed 
to the record prior year. The year benefited 
from recent investments in new product 
development, with impressive growth in sales 
of the ProSlot product launched last year.  
A new grated drainage system is now 
developed and tested, and will be ready for 
launch in the USA later in 2014. International 
sales were somewhat muted during the year 
with little activity in the Southern European 
markets, where Gatic Slotdrain has a strong 
market positioning, and a temporary lull in 
project activity at ports and airports in our Far 
Eastern markets. However, there are increasing 
early signs of success for Gatic Slotdrain in 
the USA, with order intake improving towards 
the end of the financial year and we are now 
seeing a number of opportunities to win work 
in the Middle East. After the financial year end, 
a multi million US dollar project was secured  
at Doha Port.
Our scaffolding and safety equipment business, 
SCP , had an excellent year, leveraging more 
buoyant UK construction market activity 
through a widened product range including 
ladders, beams, scaffold gates, scaffold 
sheeting and netting, and also a broadening  
of routes to market including on-line sales. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
12
PRECISION LIMITED
Rainwater, Drainage and House  
Building Products
This business segment recorded an underlying 
operating profit of over £3 million representing 
a year on year increase in profit of over 50%.  
This success was attributable to a combination 
of management’s successful execution of 
strategic growth plans including new product 
launches, broadening of routes to market 
(including the successful acquisition of Rainclear 
Systems in December 2012) and the uplift  
in new house building activity in the UK.
Alumasc Rainwater achieved success in 
exploiting new sales opportunities for 
contemporary and bespoke products,  
including the Skyline range and supporting  
this with shorter lead times, in part enabled  
by a more flexible manufacturing and 
fabrication operation at our factory near 
Kettering. The product offering was further 
enhanced by the launch of the new AX gutter 
range earlier in the financial year and also steel 
rainwater products added to the product range 
following the acquisition of Rainclear. Rainclear 
itself had a highly successful first full year in the 
group and exceeded all its post-acquisition earn 
out targets. This business is now poised for 
greater success including further development 
of its on-line offering.
The Harmer drainage brand continued its  
recent resurgence and is now starting to  
benefit from the launch of a new floor drainage 
range during the year including the addition  
of stainless steel products intended to exploit  
sales opportunities in clean room environments, 
such as catering. The performance of this 
business was further enhanced by success  
in a number of school and hospital projects, 
where SML products were specified.
Timloc, our house building products business, 
had yet another record performance with 
actions taken by the management team  
over recent years, including strengthening  
the sales team, particularly in London and  
the South East and an improved marketing  
and sales focus enabling us to leverage 
the recovery in UK house building activity 
and maximise other channel opportunities. 
Investments in tooling, factory capacity and 
new product development are being made  
to enable Timloc to further enhance its 
reputation for excellent customer service  
to meet the forecast increased construction 
market demand. 
Pendock, the group’s pre-formed plywood 
casing business, also had a successful year 
growing revenues and profit and further 
enhancing operational efficiencies, an 
achievement which is of great credit to  
the local management team.
Engineering Products division
Divisional revenues grew by 5% to £31.0 
million and divisional operating losses were 
more than halved to £0.2 million compared  
with the prior year. In addition, the division 
delivered a positive cash flow performance in 
the year. The division comprises two businesses, 
Alumasc Precision Components (“APC”) and 
Dyson Diecastngs. 
A key focus of the group in the last two 
years has been to recover profitability at APC. 
Investments have been made to strengthen 
management and in new plant and equipment, 
whilst eliminating loss making and peripheral 
work, to enable us to deliver better quality 
and service to customers, thereby improving 
operational efficiency and returns to 
shareholders. Considerable progress has  
been made and the improvement in customer 
service and quality in the last twelve months 
has been a particular highlight. 
However, the business continues to face  
margin pressures as our large OEM customers 
strive to achieve their own business objectives 
in a highly competitive marketplace during  
a period when Sterling strengthened.  
Therefore, whilst APC has recently been 
operating at around EBITDA break even  
levels, it is taking longer than previously 
anticipated to return to positive  
operating profits. 
Dyson Diecastings remains an excellent 
business with a strong engineering, design 
and tool room capability. 2013/14 was another 
impressive year for Dyson, in which operating 
profits of over £1 million were recorded. Dyson 
has a broader customer base, with a greater 
range of end use applications for its products 
than is the case at APC. It offers smaller 
components, where the quality and finish  
of the part can be a key differentiator. 
Paul Hooper 
Chief Executive
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Review of Operations Financial KPIs 2013/14 2012/13 Comment/explanation
Year end group order books (£m) Building Products order books began to grow again in 
Q4 2013/14. Year end order book schedules for Alumasc 
Precision Components were some 20% lower
44.0 36.8
113.4 116.8
6.0 5.7
6.3 5.9
13.3
12.2
–
7.7
17.0
13.4
17.2
1.0
12.3
12.1
5.5
7.7
22.4
12.2
12.0
1.0
Group revenues (£m)
Underlying profit 
before tax (£m)
Underlying earnings  
per share (pence)
Average trade working capital  
% sales – excluding Kitimat
Net cash inflow (£m)
Year end net debt (£m)
Year end shareholders’ funds (£m)
Return on investment (post-tax) (%)
Underlying EBITDA interest cover 
(times) – banking covenant > 4 times
Net debt/underlying EBITDA (times) – 
banking covenant < 3 times
Non-repeat of some Kitimat and CESP project 
revenues in 2013/14, see pages 6 and 7
Growth in operating profit, reduced bank interest charges
Growth in underlying profit before tax, lower underlying 
group tax rate
No significant change following a substantial 
reduction over recent years
Significant payments in advance on construction 
contracts, including Kitimat, received in 2012/13 reversed 
in 2013/14
Neutral net cash flow for the 2013/14 year for the reasons 
described above
Reduced due to a higher IAS19 pension deficit in 2013/14 
for the reasons explained on page 15
ROI grew in conjunction with improved operating profit 
on similar levels of capital invested
Improved mainly due to lower bank interest costs
No material change
Underlying operating 
margin (%)
Improvement driven mainly by elimination of prior  
year losses in Roofing activities and reduced losses  
in Engineering Products, see page 7 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
13 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Financial Review
The group’s balance sheet 
remains strong with around  
£10 million of headroom 
between drawn debt and 
committed banking facilities  
that could be used to finance 
acquisitions in the Building 
Products division.
Andrew Magson
Group Finance Director
The group’s financial KPIs are summarised in the table below, together with comment on their year on year evolution. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
14
Cash flow and net debt
The group’s cash flow performance is 
summarised in the table below. Year end  
net debt of £7.7 million remained unchanged 
when compared to the prior year end, but 
the average level of net debt during the year 
improved by £2.6 million and was the lowest 
since the acquisition of Levolux in 2007. 
Cash generation was strong with group EBITDA 
reaching £9 million for the second year in 
succession. Tight control was maintained over 
working capital with the net investment in 
working capital required to finance higher sales 
during the year (excluding Kitimat) amounting 
to £0.4 million. Average trade working capital 
as a percentage of sales (excluding Kitimat) 
remained broadly stable at 12.2%.
Capital expenditure of £1.5 million was just 
ahead of prior year levels. Investments were 
made to expand capacity in businesses where 
we are experiencing strongest growth, in 
particular Alumasc Rainwater, Harmer Drainage, 
Timloc and Gatic, together with more routine 
replacement of assets across the group. 
In addition, the group continues to invest  
in business systems to improve management 
information, operational efficiency, and the 
robustness of processes and controls across  
the group. 
Capital spend was below the level of the 
annual charge for depreciation and non-brand 
amortisation of £2.2 million, as investment  
at APC was focused on areas necessary to 
support the turnaround in view of the  
ongoing operating losses in that business. 
Pensions
The group concluded negotiations with the 
Pension Trustees with regard to the 2013 
triennial actuarial valuation of the group’s 
two defined benefit pension schemes, both 
of which are closed to future accrual. The 
result of this review was largely as anticipated 
at the time of our interim report. In view of 
the significant reduction in gilt yields used to 
discount pension liabilities to present values 
in the period between the previous triennial 
review in March 2010 and the latest review 
in March 2013, and their partial subsequent 
Reconciliation of Underlying to Reported Profit Before Tax
 2013/14  2012/13
 £m £m
Underlying profit before tax 6.3 5.9 
  IAS19 (revised) pension costs (0.9) (1.4) 
  Brand amortisation (0.3) (0.3) 
  Restructuring and acquisition costs – (0.8) 
  Impairment charge – (0.6) 
Reported profit before tax 5.1 2.8
Summarised Cash Flow Statement
 2013/14 2012/13
 £m £m
EBITDA
*
  9.0 9.2 
Underlying change in working capital (0.4) 1.7 
Cash received in advance of profit recognised on construction contracts (1.1) 1.8
Operating cash flow 7.5 12.7
Capital expenditure (1.5) (1.4) 
Pension deficit & scheme expenses funding (2.4) (2.3)
Interest (0.5) (0.7) 
Tax (1.1) (0.3) 
Dividends (1.7) (1.1) 
Reorganisation costs – (0.9) 
Acquisitions, disposals & other (0.3) (0.5)
Reduction in net debt – 5.5
* EBITDA: Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Strategic Report
Financial Review The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
15 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
recovery, the Trustees allowed the use of 
average yields in the period January to March 
2014 in determining the level of pension  
deficit to be used for recovery plan purposes. 
This resulted in a deficit of £26.3 million  
(2010: £11.5 million). In view of the increase, 
the company agreed to raise annual cash 
contributions to the schemes from £2.0 million 
pa to £2.5 million pa with effect from 1 July 
2014. The consequential deficit recovery 
plan period increased to thirteen years and 
seven months from 1 July 2014. In addition, 
the company will continue to meet pension 
fund scheme running expenses, including the 
payment of the annual Pension Protection Fund 
levy which, together, typically amount to circa 
£0.5 million pa.
Meanwhile, the group’s pension deficit 
calculated under IAS19 conventions for 
accounting purposes increased during the year 
to £17.9 million (30 June 2013: £10.1 million). 
This reflects the reduction in AA corporate 
bond yields which are used to discount future 
pension liabilities to present values under 
IAS19’s methodology, where each 10 basis 
point change in yields impacts the present  
value of the group’s pension liabilities (up  
or down) by £1.4 million. 
The reduction in the risk premium between 
corporate bond and gilt yields during our 
2013/14 financial year is the main reason  
why the present value of pension liabilities  
for accounting purposes increased under  
IAS19 whilst those for triennial review  
purposes reduced during the year.
With effect from 1 July 2014, all group 
employees based in the UK who had qualifying 
earnings within the bands set out in the 
relevant legislation now participate in a defined 
contribution workplace pension scheme unless 
they have opted not to do so. 
Capital structure, capital invested and 
shareholders’ funds
The group defines its capital invested as the 
sum of shareholders’ funds, bank debt and  
the pensions deficit (net of tax).
Capital invested remained broadly stable during 
the year at just under £40 million. Post tax 
returns on investment continued to grow in  
line with group operating profits from  
12.2% in 2012/13 to 13.4% in 2013/14. 
Period end shareholders’ funds reduced from 
£22.4 million a year ago to £17.0 million, 
largely as a result of the increased pension 
deficit calculated under IAS19, described above.
The group’s balance sheet remains strong,  
with around £10 million of headroom between 
drawn debt and committed banking facilities 
at the year end, that could be used to finance 
acquisitions in the Building Products division 
should suitable opportunities arise at the  
right price.
Going concern
The Board’s assessment of going concern  
is set out on page 52.
Impairment reviews 
The Board conducted impairment reviews 
covering all assets that contributed to the 
goodwill figure on the group balance sheet at 
the financial year end, together with any other 
assets where indicators of impairment existed. 
No impairments were identified. Further 
information on the impairment reviews is given 
in the Audit Committee report on page 29 and 
in note 13 to the group financial statements.
Business risk and internal control
A summary of the group’s principal risks and 
mitigating controls is set out on pages 16 to 17.
As evidenced by the results of internal and 
external audits, the group’s internal financial 
controls strengthened further during the year. 
Work is ongoing to improve day to day 
inventory control and to refine costings in the 
Engineering Products businesses, but risks to 
the balance sheet and reported financial results 
are mitigated by full monthly stock takes.
Andrew Magson 
Group Finance Director The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
16
Strategic Report
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risks Mitigating actions taken
Alumasc’s portfolio of businesses generate sales in a variety of building/construction and industrial markets. 
This reduces the group’s exposure to any single end-market or third party customer or supplier.
Group-wide and corporate risks
Loss of key employees
Comment
Generally, staff turnover is low.
• Market competitive remuneration and incentive arrangements.
• Changes in numbers of people employed monitored in monthly subsidiary board meetings, with  
 staff turnover a KPI in most businesses.
• Key and high potential employees identified and monitored on a local company and group basis.
• Focused training and development programmes for key and high potential people.
• Exit interviews held for senior people who leave the business.
Product/service differentiation relative to 
competition not developed or maintained 
Comment
Innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit  
is encouraged in all group companies.
International Business Development risk
Comment
International business development plans might  
take longer to succeed than initially anticipated or,  
in some instances, not succeed as intended. 
• Group-wide innovation best practice days introduced last year.
• Innovation and new product development workshops held regularly in most group companies.
• Annual group strategic planning meetings encourage innovation and “blue sky” thinking,  
 with group resources allocated and prioritised as appropriate to support approved ideas.
• Group board involvement in export development programme planning and monitoring.
• Monthly agenda item (where relevant) in Operating Company board meetings.
• Employ people with knowledge of both local markets and our products/systems.
• Take appropriate UK and local professional advice.
• Regular monitoring/tracking of progress against plans and forecasts, adapting management  
 action accordingly.
Economic and market risks 
Comment 
Alumasc is a UK-based group of businesses and the 
UK construction sector contracted significantly in size 
during the recent recession. Construction forecasts 
now anticipate some recovery. 
Risk of loss of customers.
• Develop and retain strong management teams (see above).
• Ensure Alumasc products are market leading and differentiated against the competition to improve  
 specification to protect margin (see above).
• Develop export sales (particularly in the USA, Middle & South East Asia and France).
• Increase sales to the more resilient building refurbishment (relative to new build) markets.
• Increase mix of UK sales towards the stronger London & South East regional markets. 
• Develop and maintain strong relationships with key customers through regular contact and superior service.
• Good project tracking and enquiry/quote conversion rate tracking.
• Increasing use of, and investment in, customer relationship management (CRM) software.
Pension obligations
Comment
Alumasc’s pension obligations are material relative  
to its market capitalisation and net asset value.
• Continue to grow the business so the relative affordability of pension contributions is improved over time.
• Maintain a good, constructive and open relationship with Pension Trustees.
• Meet agreed pension funding commitments.
• Pension scheme management is a regular group board agenda item.
• The board engages specialist advisors on both actuarial and investment matters.
• Monitor and seek market opportunities to reduce gross pension liabilities.
Health and safety risks 
Comment 
The group has a strong overall track record of health 
& safety performance, with the number of lost time 
accidents significantly reduced over the last 10 years. 
Health and safety risks are inherently higher in the 
Engineering Products businesses, particularly foundry 
operations, and this is an area of specific focus.
• Health and safety is the number one priority of management and the first agenda item on all subsidiary 
 and group board agendas.
• Risk assessments are carried out and safe systems of work documented and communicated.
• All safety incidents and near misses reported to board level with appropriate remedial action taken.
• Group health and safety best practice days are held twice a year and chaired by the Chief Executive.
• Annual audit of health and safety in all group businesses by independent consultants.
• Specific focus on improving health and safety in foundry environments and higher risk operations.
• All safety incidents and near misses reported monthly.
Product warranty/recall risks
Comment 
The group has a good track record with regard  
to the management of these risks and does not  
have a history of significant claims.
• Robust internal quality systems, compliance with relevant industry standards (eg ISO, BBA etc) and  
 close co-operation with customers in their design and specification of the group’s products.
• Group insurance programme to cover larger potential risks and exposures, where available.
• Back to back warranties from suppliers, where appropriate.
• Seek to manage contractual liabilities to ensure potential consequential losses are minimised and  
 proportionate, and overall liabilities are capped, where possible. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
17 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Risks Mitigating actions taken
Loss of key production facilities/business 
continuity 
Comment
The group has not experienced any significant loss 
of production facilities causing business continuity 
issues. Whilst the likelihood of a catastrophic loss is 
low, the impact if it were to happen could be high.
• Business continuity plans have been prepared at subsidiary level, having regard to specific risk factors.
• Advice is being taken from insurers on continuous improvement of these plans.
• IT disaster recovery plans are in place, with close to real time back up arrangements using either off-site  
 servers or cloud technology.
• Critical plant and equipment is identified, with associated breakdown/recovery plans, including  
 assessment of engineering spares held on site.
Business systems change 
Comment 
Alumasc is part way though implementing common 
business (ERP) systems. Experience so far has been 
generally positive.
• Ensure use of proven, reliable software solutions and implementation consultants with industry specific  
 track record of success.
• Implementation projects are governed by Steering Committees sponsored by the managing director 
 of the business, with group executive director involvement, supported by independent consultants.
• Project boards established. The project manager reports to the Steering Committee.
• Careful documentation and challenge of legacy business processes prior to implementation to avoid  
 bespoking of software wherever possible.
• Pre-implementation testing, training and communication, with go-live delayed if implementation risk  
 is judged to be too high.
Credit risk 
Comment 
The group has a generally good record in managing 
credit risks. Risks are higher amongst smaller building 
contractor customers, who are often installers of the 
group’s products.
• Most credit risks in the Building Products division are insured. 
• Customers in the Engineering Products division tend to be large, well-funded international OEM’s  
 and are therefore generally lower risk.
• Large export contracts are backed by letters of credit, performance bonds, guarantees or similar.
• Any risks taken above insured limits in the Building Products division are subject to strict delegated  
 authority limit sign offs, including group executives’ sign off for risks above £50k.
• Credit checks when accepting new customers/prior to accepting new work.
• The group employs experienced credit controllers, and aged debt reports are reviewed in monthly  
 Board meetings.
Additional Building Products’ risks
Failure of or delays in large construction 
contracts
Comment
Most of Alumasc’s business is product supply only, 
so many risks associated with large construction 
contracts involving installation of product are 
avoided. However, Levolux and Blackdown do install 
their own products in the UK. 
Alumasc can experience construction project delays 
beyond its control.
• Experienced, specialist resources manage construction contract risks in the relevant Alumasc businesses.
• Inherent risks of consequential loss through installation delay caused by Alumasc businesses are  
 somewhat mitigated as solar shading and green roofing products tend to be installed towards the end  
 of the construction of the overall building.
• Risk reviews are carried out on significant or unusual contracts, and are submitted to local boards, and  
 in some cases the group board, as appropriate for approval before the work is accepted.
• Close and collaborative relationships are maintained with customers so any issues are resolved as soon  
 as possible as and when they arise.
• Robust contract terms negotiated with indemnity and consequential loss clauses managed to acceptable  
 levels and overall limits of liability agreed wherever possible/practicable.
• Close relationships with customers to understand latest project developments.
• Appropriate contingency allowances built into business and financial plans, which are reviewed regularly.
Project risk 
Comment 
Some engineering products contracts can potentially 
last a number of years, and any issues relating to 
inaccurate pricing and costing of work at the outset 
and/or not optimising up-front tooling development 
can cause lower than expected margins.
• Specialist engineering, operational and commercial resources with significant industry experience are  
 employed in the engineering businesses to manage the specific risks.
• The Engineering Products division has its own specialist non-executive director representation at divisional  
 board level.
• Formal project risk reviews are carried out on all significant new or unusual/higher risk contracts, requiring  
 divisional or group board approval, as appropriate prior to committing to the work.
• Strong engineering functions to ensure tooling is properly developed in collaboration with the customer  
 to deliver mutual benefit.
Additional Engineering Products’ risks
Customer concentration
Comment
There is a higher level of customer concentration in 
the Engineering Products division than for Building 
Products. The Caterpillar Group is Alumasc’s largest 
customer.
• Diversify the business into a wider variety of end use markets and develop a wider customer base over time.
• Maintain good and close relationships with larger customers as strategic partners.
• Maintain Alumasc Precision’s differentiation through engineering expertise, and a “one stop shop” for  
 a range of diecasting and machining solutions.
• Continuous improvement of quality and service levels.
• Seek to achieve robust customer contracts with liability clauses that are proportionate to the work being  
 undertaken and avoidance, wherever possible, of “cost down” commitments to protect margin over time.
Reliance on key suppliers
Comment 
Whilst the group does not have undue concentration 
on any single or small group of suppliers, certain 
Alumasc businesses do have key strategic suppliers, 
some of whom are located in the Far East.
• Annual reviews of supplier concentration as part of strategic planning/formal business risk review  
 process, with alternative suppliers sought and developed where practicable.
• Regular visits to key suppliers, good relationships maintained and quality control checks/training  
 carried out.
• Regular reviews as to whether work should be brought back to the UK (or elsewhere) as economic  
 conditions evolve.
• Selling price adjustment mechanisms built into longer term sales contracts wherever possible,  
 or material, to mitigate input cost inflation and, where possible, foreign exchange risk. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
18
Strategic Report
Corporate and Social Responsibility
Health and Safety
The group’s number one priority continues 
to be to provide a safe place of work for 
employees, and health and safety remains the 
first agenda item for all subsidiary and group 
board meetings. The majority of directors and 
many senior managers within the group have 
been trained to Institution of Occupational 
Safety and Health (IOSH) accreditation standard. 
The group holds regular health and safety 
best practice days. In addition, each group 
business has local health and safety committees 
that meet regularly and each operation is 
subject to at least an annual health and safety 
audit, with consequential action plans being 
monitored in board meetings. Each operational 
location is subject to an annual Independent 
Environmental Compliance audit. 
Our principal health and safety KPI, the 
performance rate index (PRI), was 4.9 versus 
3.5 in the previous year, mainly due to a specific 
incident in the Engineering Products division 
which resulted in a number of days being lost 
earlier in the year. However the 2013/14 PRI 
result was better than two years ago and in 
previous years and is therefore consistent with 
the longer term trend of improvement in the 
group’s health and safety performance over 
time. We were successful in increasing the 
reporting of near miss incidents throughout 
the group during the year and we are using 
this information to take action to prevent 
potential future accidents. We have also taken 
specific action to update and strengthen risk 
assessments, safe systems of work and training 
on those risks in our business judged to be 
those capable of causing the most serious 
accidents.
Environment
Many of our building products businesses 
are strongly focused on providing effective 
solutions to enhance sustainability in the built 
environment. The group has established leading 
positions in energy and water management, 
through brands such as Alumasc, Levolux, Gatic 
and Blackdown Greenroofs. We are committed 
to complementing this leadership by adopting 
environmentally sound business practices 
throughout our operations. 
Subscription to the BREEAM Points System,  
as a framework for analysis and scoring, allows 
the designer to differentiate between those 
products with true sustainable credentials 
and those not achieving the benchmark. 
Indicative ratings for building materials given 
in the BRE Green Guide to Specification also 
allows designers to choose those products 
or construction methods that will be most 
beneficial in contributing to a high BREEAM 
points score. Alumasc is able to offer a wide 
variety of A+ rated solutions that allow 
designers and specifiers to achieve the highest 
standards of sustainability and make BREEAM 
‘Excellent’ and ‘Outstanding’ designs  
eminently possible.
Levolux is well-placed to contribute to the 
Green Building Council’s campaigning.  
Its products are fully recyclable and help 
maintain a naturally cool and energy  
efficient environment. 
Our programme of environmental audits, 
carried out by external consultants, has 
continued through the year. These audits are 
designed not only to highlight areas in which 
we can improve, but also to form a basis 
for our achieving ISO 14001 accreditation 
in a number of our businesses. ISO 14001 
establishes a framework of control for an 
Environmental Management System, against 
which an organisation can be certified  
by a third party.
The group has an ongoing programme to 
monitor progress against a number of criteria 
against which improvements in environmental 
performance can be measured in operating 
businesses. This programme has delivered 
continuous year-on-year improvements against 
measures from the use of recycled paper  
to energy usage and efficiency. 
As new environmental regulations come into 
force, the group takes active steps to comply. 
We continue to ensure compliance with the 
REACH Regulations on the manufacture and 
import of chemicals in the EU.
All operational sites segregate their process 
waste to allow direct recovery and recycling.
Our obligations to recover and recycle 
packaging waste are discharged by membership 
of an independent compliance scheme 
operated by Valpak.
Carbon management
We recognise that improving our energy 
consumption, particularly within our more 
energy-intensive operations in the Engineering 
Products division, is a key way in which we 
can improve both our environmental and 
financial performance. This success has been 
driven by investments in more energy-efficient 
equipment and improvements in management 
practices. Our two foundry sites continue the 
improvements they began in 2001, targeting 
and achieving energy savings each year to 
benefit from rebates on their electricity bills 
under Climate Change Levy agreements. 
In addition the group has registered as a 
participant in the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme 
and has just completed its Annual Report 
and purchased and submitted the necessary 
allowances.
Greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions
The group works with Carbon Footprint Ltd, 
the carbon and sustainability management 
specialists, as part of its commitment to 
continuously improve our environmental  
and sustainability credentials. 
Methodology
We report in the table opposite on all of the 
emission sources required under the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013. We do not  
have responsibility for any other material 
emission sources.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition), ISO 14064:2006 and emission 
factors from UK Government’s Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014. 
Sustainability
The wider group is well positioned to benefit 
from environmentally-driven changes in policy 
and regulation. In particular, the growing 
awareness of sustainability and life-cycle cost 
amongst building and construction specifiers 
should assist those group businesses that assist 
their customers to manage energy and water 
use in the built environment. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
19 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Blackdown Greenroofs  
supplies systems that assist  
in managing the scarce  
resources of both energy  
and water in the built 
environment. 
www.alumasc.co.uk
Community
In addition to the wider community benefits 
arising from our environmental programme, 
the group is committed to supporting 
local community initiatives and a number 
of charitable donations have been made 
throughout the year as described in the 
Directors’ Report on page 25.
Human Rights
As Alumasc comprises a number of relatively 
small businesses operating from the UK and 
exporting to mainly developed countries, the 
Board does not consider it necessary for the 
group to have a formal human rights policy. 
However, Alumasc has long had a culture  
of seeking to treat people fairly and of being 
honest and straightforward in its business 
relationships. The group’s policies on the related 
topics of equal rights employment policies, 
communication with employees, our business 
ethics policy, our anti-bribery and corruption 
policy and our whistleblowing policy are 
detailed elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Emmisions from:  Tonnes of CO
2
e
Scope 1: Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities  6,760
Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use  7,677
Scope 3: Other transport related activities and electricity transmission & distribution 1,044
Scope 1 & 2 emissions normalised per employee  19
Scope 1 & 2 emissions normalised per £ million turnover  127
Role Male Female
Non-executive director 6 0
Executive director 2 0
Senior managers 39 9
Employees 575 150
 622 159
Gender Analysis
An analysis of our employees by gender 
appears below:
Global Green House Gas emissions data for the year ended 30 June 2014 The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
20
Governance
Board of Directors and Company Advisors
1. John McCall MA (Cantab)
Chairman 
a
John McCall was appointed Chairman and 
Chief Executive on the foundation of the 
company in 1984. He was called to the Bar 
in 1968. His previous employment was with 
the mining finance house Consolidated Gold 
Fields plc with whom he gained extensive 
international experience in the fields of  
mining and construction materials.
2. Paul Hooper BSc, MBA, DipM
Chief Executive 
Paul Hooper was appointed Chief Executive  
in March 2003 having joined Alumasc as Group 
Managing Director in April 2001. His earlier 
career included a first Managing Director role 
with BTR plc in 1992. He subsequently joined 
Williams Holdings plc in Special Operations, 
implementing acquisitions in Europe and  
North America, prior to joining Rexam PLC  
as a Divisional Managing Director with 
responsibility for operations in Europe  
and South East Asia. 
3. Andrew Magson BSc, FCA
Group Finance Director  
and Company Secretary
Andrew Magson joined Alumasc as an 
executive director in October 2006.  
Andrew spent his earlier career in the  
business assurance and corporate finance 
practices of PwC, where he qualified as  
a chartered accountant. He subsequently  
held a number of senior finance roles,  
latterly group financial controller at BPB plc,  
a FTSE 100 company. He then became  
a divisional financial controller at Saint  
Gobain following its acquisition of BPB. 
4. Jon Pither MA (Cantab) 
Deputy Chairman 
abc
Jon Pither holds directorships in numerous 
companies and is a past council member of 
the CBI and a past President of The Aluminium 
Federation. He was appointed to the Alumasc 
Board in 1992 and became Deputy Chairman 
in 1995. He is the senior independent non-
executive director on the Alumasc Board.
Committees:
a 
Nomination Committee
b 
Audit Committee
c 
Remuneration Committee
5. Philip Gwyn MA (Cantab)
Non-Executive Director 
abc
Philip Gwyn has been a non-executive  
director since 1984. He was called to the  
Bar in 1968 and after a period with merchant 
bankers, Dawnay, Day & Co, started to invest 
in businesses in which he was involved in 
executive and non-executive capacities.  
These include Christie Group plc (currently 
Chairman), The Soho Group (Chairman from 
1990 to 2001), GrandVision SA., a French  
retail group, of which he is a founder  
director, and other UK enterprises.
6. Richard Saville BSc
Non-Executive Director 
abc
Richard Saville joined the Board as a non-
executive director at the beginning of 2002.  
His early career was in the City, where he 
became a partner of Phillips & Drew in 1980 
and a director of Morgan Grenfell Securities  
in 1987. He joined George Wimpey plc in  
1988 becoming Group Finance Director at  
the beginning of 1994, a position he held  
until May 2001. After 2001 he served for  
a time as Director of Finance of Halfords plc  
and at Craegmoor Limited. He is currently  
a director of a number of companies.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
21 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
7. John Pilkington MA (Cantab) 
Non-Executive Director 
bc
John Pilkington joined the Board in March 
2009. He has spent his career working in 
the construction industry, most recently at 
Amey UK plc from 2000 to 2008, latterly 
as an Executive Director responsible for PFI 
Investments. He is currently the Executive 
Chairman of Spring Rehabilitation Centres 
Limited and a Director of GB Social Housing 
Limited and a non-executive Director of  
Fortel Construction Group Limited.
8. Keith Walden CEng, MIEE
Non-Executive Director
Keith Walden was appointed as a non-
executive Director on 4 September 2012.  
He is a Chartered Manufacturing Engineer  
with a lifetime career in the engineering 
industry. He originally started with the group 
in 1964 and became a Director in 1986 with 
specific responsibility for Alumasc Precision 
until his retirement in 2002. Keith intends  
to retire from the Alumasc Group Board  
on 2 September 2014 but will remain as  
a non-executive director of Alumasc  
Precision Limited. 
Registered Office
The Alumasc Group plc
Burton Latimer
Kettering
Northamptonshire NN15 5JP
Tel: +44(0) 1536 383844
Fax: +44(0) 1536 725069
www.alumasc.co.uk
info@alumasc.co.uk
Registered No: 1767387
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Auditors
KPMG LLP
Altius House
One North Fourth Street
Milton Keynes MK9 1NE
Investment Bankers
DC Advisory Partners 
5 King William Street
London
EC4N 7DA
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes MK9 2LD
HSBC Bank plc
4th Floor 
120 Edmund Street
Birmingham B3 2QZ
Solicitors
Herbert Smith LLP
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London EC2A 2HS
Pinsent Masons LLP
3 Colmore Circus
Birmingham B4 6BH
Brokers
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
7.
8.
9. David Armfield
Proposed Non-Executive Director
David Armfield began his career as a solicitor 
at Wilde Sapte, moved to Lehman Brothers 
in its Investment Banking group in 1987 and 
later became a partner PwC, where he led their 
industrial corporate finance team. With his 
increasing specialisation in the emerging fields 
of Cleantech Industry and Renewable Energy, 
David became a founding partner of Kinetix 
Corporate Finance LLP, established in 2010  
to provide corporate finance services to 
businesses seeking to grow in these fields. 
David will join the Board on 1 October 2014.  Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements for The Alumasc Group plc for the financial year ended  
30 June 2014.
Principal activities and business review
The principal activities of the group are the design, manufacture and marketing of products for the building and construction industries and the 
manufacture of engineering products and components for a variety of industrial markets. A review of the group’s operations, future prospects  
and Key Performance Indicators are included in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 19.
The following sections are incorporated by reference into the Directors’ Report:
• Strategic Report (pages 1 to 19)
• Board of Directors (page 20 to 21)
• Statement of Corporate Governance (pages 27 to 28)
• Audit Committee report (pages 29 to 32)
• Directors’ Remuneration Report (pages 33 to 44)
In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, principal risk factors are discussed under the section “Principal risks and 
uncertainties” on pages 16 to 17. Key Performance Indicators are set out on pages 9 and 13. Information on potential future developments  
in the group is set out in the “Prospects” sections on pages 5 and 7.
Results and dividends
The group reported profit before tax of £5.1 million (2012/13 re-stated: £2.8 million). The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.8 pence 
(2012/13: 2.5 pence) per ordinary share payable on 5 November 2014 to members on the register at the close of business on 10 October 2014 
which, together with the interim dividend, makes a total of 5.0 pence for the year (2012/13: 4.5 pence).
The company operates a dividend re-investment plan, details of which are available from Capita Registrars.
The right to receive any dividend has been waived by the Trustee of the company’s Employee Benefit Trust over any shares that the Trustees may hold 
from time to time. At the year end, the Trustees’ holding was 485,171 shares (2012/13: 485,171). The shares held in Trust are to meet commitments 
under the company’s performance based executive share plans.
Share capital
The present capital structure of the company is set out in note 25 to the group financial statements.
Purchase of own shares by the company
At last year’s Annual General Meeting, authority was granted to the Directors to purchase the company’s own shares in the market up to  
the limit of 14.9% of the issued share capital. The authority continues until the company’s next Annual General Meeting at which it will expire.  
No purchases pursuant to this authority have been made during the year. Renewal of this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. The Directors do not propose to exercise the authority unless satisfied that a purchase would be in the best interest of shareholders 
and could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Directors
The Directors who served throughout the financial year are listed opposite and their biographies are set out on pages 20 to 21. 
Following his proposed appointment as a director on 1 October 2014, in accordance with the Articles of Association, David Armfield will retire from 
office and offer himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. His biography is set out on page 21.
Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville, having served on the Board for more than nine years, also retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Keith Walden has confirmed that he will retire from office following the announcement of the group’s annual results on 2 September 2014, but will 
remain as a director of Alumasc Precision Limited.
Details of Directors’ service agreements are given in the Remuneration Report on page 39.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
22 Directors’ share interests
     Shares
    At 30 June  At 30 June
    2014 2013
J S McCall    4,359,668 4,359,668
J P Pither    270,131 286,631
P H R Gwyn    3,057,605 3,057,605
G P Hooper    86,782 360,487
A Magson    25,000 25,000
J Pilkington    12,123 11,731
R C C Saville    53,000 53,000
W K Walden    713,462 713,426
The Directors’ interests are beneficial with the exception of 434,000 shares (2013: 434,000) in which John McCall has a non-beneficial interest. 
Details of Long Term Incentive Plans and options granted to the Executive Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 44.
There has been no change in the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company from 30 June 2014 to 2 September 2014.
Substantial shareholders
In addition to those of the Directors, the analysis of the company’s share register showed the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the 
company’s issued ordinary shares as at 30 June 2014:
     % of issued
    Shares share capital
AXA Investment Management    5,034,684 13.93
Delta Lloyd Asset Management    4,304,855 11.91
E W O’Loughlin Esq    1,550,962 4.29
Unicorn Asset Management    1,284,764 3.56
Schroder Investment Management    1,089,167 3.01
The Directors are not aware of any other notifiable interest in the share capital of the company.
There has been no change to substantial shareholders since the year end.
Shareholders’ statistics
Ordinary shareholders on the register at 30 June 2014:
    Number of  Ordinary shares
    shareholders Number 
Shareholding range:  
1 – 999    452 245,675
1,000 – 9,999    568 1,775,571
10,000 – 99,999    108 3,634,707
100,000 – 999,999    37 12,999,753
1,000,000 and over    9 17,477,852
    1,174 36,133,558
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
23 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Information required for shareholders
The following provides additional information for shareholders as a result of the implementation of The Takeovers Directive into UK law.
The details of the company’s share capital structure are given in note 25 to the group financial statements. With the exception of 485,171 ordinary 
shares held in the employee trust being subject to a waiver of the right to a dividend, all shares carry equal rights and no restrictions other than 
those imposed from time to time by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Significant interests
Director’s interests in the share capital of the company are shown on page 23 together with major interests (i.e. those above 3%) of which the 
company has been notified.
Change of control
The group’s committed financing facility agreement includes a change of control provision. Under this provision, a change in ownership/control  
of the company would result in withdrawal of these facilities.
There are no other material agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company following a takeover bid.
There are no additional agreements between the company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office  
or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Environmental matters
The Board aims to conduct its business so as to minimise as far as practicable any adverse effects that its operations may have on the environment 
and to find alternative ways of operating where its activities may have an environmental impact. The group requires that each operating business 
achieves minimum standards of environmental efficiency in accordance with group policy.
The Board is committed to applying best practice environmental standards throughout the business. This is achieved through a variety of methods, 
including product process development, promoting use of recycled materials, waste minimisation and energy efficiency.
More information regarding the group’s approach to environmental matters is given in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement  
on pages 18 and 19.
Health and safety
The Alumasc Group plc places the highest priority on health and safety matters and seeks to achieve high standards for the well-being of its 
employees. There is a clear group policy to this effect. Achieving an embedded health and safety culture and the reduction of accident risk is  
the responsibility of management and employees alike.
All operating companies ensure compliance with legislation and have developed and implemented action plans with the objective of achieving 
continuous improvement in health & safety performance which is systematically reviewed by local management and at group Board level.
More information regarding the group’s approach to health and safety matters is given in the Corporate and Social Responsibility statement  
on pages 18 and 19.
Creditor payment policy
While the company does not follow a specific code of practice, it is the company’s policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with  
suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to make sure that suppliers are made aware of such terms and, providing the supplier meets its 
contractual obligations, to abide by them. At the year end the company had no trade creditors (2013: none). The group’s average number  
of creditor days as at 30 June 2014 was 74 (2013: 73).
Research and development
The group continues to devote effort and resources to the research and development of new processes and products. Research and development 
expenditure during the year totalled £0.2 million (2012/13: £0.3 million).
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
24 Employees
Through regular company announcements and other staff communications employees are kept informed on the group’s financial performance, 
future prospects and other matters affecting them.
The group is an equal opportunities employer and its policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion are based on the aptitude 
and abilities of the individual. Those who are disabled are given equal treatment with the able-bodied. Should employees become disabled after 
joining the company, every effort is made to ensure that employment continues and appropriate training is given.
Employees are kept informed of changes in the business and general financial and economic factors influencing the group. This is done through 
briefing sessions and presentations. The group values the views of its employees and consults with them and their representatives on a regular basis 
about matters that may affect them.
Donations
The group made charitable donations of £2,463 during the year (2012/13: £1,300). 
No political donations were made during the year.
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG LLP , have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the 
AGM. 
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant  
audit information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as  
a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board has concluded that the 2014 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders 
and other readers of the Report and Accounts to assess the group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 30 October 2014, is included with this document together with an explanation  
of the business to be conducted at the meeting and a form of proxy.
The Directors believe that the proposals set out for approval at the AGM will promote the success of the company. Accordingly, they recommend 
unanimously that members vote in favour of each resolution. Members who are in any doubt as to what action to take are advised to consult 
appropriate independent advisers.
By order of the Board
Andrew Magson
Company Secretary
2 September 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
25 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Governance
Directors’ Report
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the group and parent company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the group and the company; and
b) the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the 
group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
On behalf of the Board
Paul Hooper Andrew Magson
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
2 September 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
26 Statement of Corporate Governance
There is a commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the group. The Board endorses the general principles set out in 
The UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 (“The Code”) (which is available on www.frc.org.uk) and is accountable to the group’s 
shareholders for good governance. This report, together with the information contained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 29 to 32 and  
the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 44 explains how the Directors seek to apply the requirements of The Code to procedures within the group.
Directors
During the year, the Board consisted of a Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and five non-executive Directors. The Chairman,  
John McCall, has a significant shareholding detailed in the Directors’ Report on page 23.
Three of the Board’s non-executive Directors, Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville have been members of the Board for more than the 
recommended nine years. In addition, Philip Gwyn has a significant shareholding, detailed in the Directors’ Report on page 23 and Keith Walden  
is a Pension Trustee and receives a pension from the company. The Board has reviewed the role of each of these Directors and concluded that each  
is independent in character and free from any relationship that could affect exercise of their independent judgement. It is felt that their knowledge 
and understanding are fundamental to the Board’s deliberations and these Directors also have other significant commercial commitments.
Jon Pither is the Senior Independent Director.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Board’s decision-making. 
The non-executive Directors’ interests in the shares of the company are set out on page 23 and they receive a fixed fee for their services.
Profiles of the Board members appear on pages 20 and 21. These indicate the high level and range of business experience which enables the  
group to be managed effectively. 
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently where business needs require. Two of these meetings are focused upon strategic 
matters. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes material capital commitments, commencing or settling major 
litigation, business acquisitions and disposals and Board appointments. Directors are given appropriate information for each Board meeting, including 
reports on the current financial and trading position.
Any Director appointed is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment. 
Additionally, one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors required  
to retire are those in office longest since their previous re-election.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice if required and at the company’s expense. This is in addition to the access that every 
Director has to the Company Secretary. The Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Statement of compliance
During the year ended 30 June 2014 the group has complied with the requirements of The Code save for the following:
Under the provisions of The Code a small company should have at least two independent non-executive Directors. John Pilkington is classed as 
independent, however Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville have been in office for longer than the prescribed nine years and are therefore  
not classed as independent under The Code. Keith Walden receives a pension from the company and is therefore also not classed as independent 
under The Code.
Therefore under The Code provisions B.1.2, C.3.1 and D.2.1 the company and/or committee in question only had one independent non-executive 
Director during the year and not two as defined by The Code. Also, under Code provision B.2.1 the nominations committee did not comprise  
of a majority of independent non-executive Directors. 
Under The Code provision B.3.2, where not all non-executive Directors had a service contract or letter of appointment during the year, further details 
are given in the Remuneration Report on page 39.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive.
The role of the Chairman is to conduct Board meetings and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive 
part in Board discussions. He is responsible for evaluating the performance of the Board and of the Executive Management and of the other  
non-executive Directors and has active involvement in all key strategic decisions taken by the group. 
The role of the Chief Executive is to oversee the day to day running of the group’s business including the development of business strategies and 
processes to enable the group to meet shareholder requirements. The role involves leading the executive team and evaluating the performance of 
the Executive Management. Together with the Group Finance Director, he is also responsible for dealing with investor and public relations, external 
communications and corporate governance. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
27 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Governance 
Statement of Corporate Governance
Board evaluation
In line with The Code, a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried 
out during the year. A briefing paper was prepared by the Chairman and formed the basis of one-to-one discussions between each of the Directors 
and the Chairman and, in the case of the Chairman, between the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director. Issues arising from this process 
were discussed with the Board with recommendations for actions where appropriate. The Senior Independent Director in conjunction with the  
non-executive Directors is responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman. 
Board committees
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees and there are written terms of reference for each committee outlining its authority 
and duties. All terms of reference comply with The Code and are available on the company’s website www.alumasc.co.uk.
(i) Audit Committee
 Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year are given in the Audit Committee Report on page 29.
(ii) Remuneration Committee
 Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year are given in the Remuneration Committee’s Report 
on page 33.
(iii) Nominations Committee
 The Nomination Committee members throughout the year were John McCall (Chairman), Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville.  
The Committee meets when appropriate to consider appointments to the Board of both Executive and non-executive Directors. Where 
necessary, external search consultants are used to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered. An induction to the group’s business 
and training is available for all Directors on appointment.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings
   Audit Remuneration Nomination
  Board – Committee – Committee – Committee –
  7 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting
J S McCall  7 3
†
 2
†
 1
J P Pither  6 3 2 1
P H R Gwyn  7 3 2 1
J Pilkington  7 3 2 N/A
R C C Saville  7 3 2 1
W K Walden  7 1
†
 N/A N/A
G P Hooper  7 3
†
 1
†
 N/A
A Magson  7 3
†
 1
†
 N/A
† 
By invitation as an attendee.
Shareholder relations
The company is committed to maintaining good communications with its shareholders. Shareholders have direct access to the company via 
its website where material of interest to shareholders is displayed. Additionally, the company responds to numerous individual enquiries from 
shareholders on a wide range of issues. 
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and private shareholders with large holdings, as well as general presentations  
after the announcement of results. The Board receives regular updates on all the meetings and communications with major shareholders, who are 
offered the opportunity to meet with the non-executive Directors from time to time. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders  
if they have concerns that cannot be addressed through regular channels such as The Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
All shareholders have the opportunity to raise questions at the Annual General Meeting when the company also highlights the latest key  
business developments.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
28 Audit Committee Report
Introduction
The members of the Audit Committee throughout the year were Richard Saville (Chairman), Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and John Pilkington.  
The Board considers that Richard Saville has relevant, recent financial experience. The Committee meets at least three times per year and  
its main duties are as follows:
(i) monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial reporting process and reviewing the financial statements, including the appropriateness 
of judgments and estimates taken in preparing the financial statements; 
(ii) the appointment of, and the review of the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors; and
(iii) monitoring the effectiveness of the group’s internal controls and risk management processes, including approval of the scope and review  
of the results of internal audit activities.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the group’s external auditors attended the meetings 
of the Committee. In addition, during the year, the members of the Committee met with the external auditors without members of the management 
team being present.
Activities of the Committee in the 2013/14 financial year
The main activities of the Committee during the year were:
(i) reviewing the interim and full year results announcements and financial statements, with particular focus on the key estimates and judgments 
taken by management in the preparation of those statements and the external auditor’s comments in those areas;
(ii) review and approval of the audit plan of the external auditor, including the scope of the work, the key areas of focus in terms of audit risk  
and judgment, and the basis on which the auditor assesses materiality;
(iii) considering the effectiveness of the external audit and the independence of the auditors, and recommending the re-appointment of KPMG  
LLP as external auditor;
(iv) review and approval of the plan and scope of internal audit work, including consideration of internal audit reports issued during the year and 
discussion of the key matters and improvement points arising from those audits with management;
(v) specific review of the progress in improving internal controls at Alumasc Precision Components (“APC”), in conjunction with the business 
recovery programme, which includes strengthening of internal control following prior misstatements of management and financial information 
in that business. This review included attendance by the management team of APC in one of the Committee’s meetings during the year; 
(vi) consideration of the contents and drafting of this new Audit Committee report, to reflect changes to the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance during the year; and
(vii) review and update of the Committee’s terms of reference (available at www.alumasc.co.uk/governance).
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
The committee considered, in conjunction with management and the external auditor, the significant areas of estimation and judgment in preparing 
the financial statements and disclosures, discussed how these were addressed and approved the conclusions of this work. The principal areas of 
focus in this regard were:
(i) Risk of Goodwill and Asset Impairment
 As described in the Strategic Report and operational reviews on pages 6 to 15, a key area of management focus over the last couple  
of years has been on turning around the performances of APC and the group’s two smaller roofing businesses, Blackdown and Roof-Pro.  
The carrying value of plant and equipment in the case of APC, and the carrying value of acquired goodwill in the cases of Blackdown and  
Roof-Pro, were highlighted in the group’s 2013 Annual Report as being at ongoing risk of impairment. As APC has continued to incur 
operating losses, the Committee reviewed management’s plans to recover profitability in the business and sensitivity analyses around those 
plans. It also considered an analysis of the second hand market value of plant and equipment. The conclusion was that no impairment in value 
was identified. Blackdown’s performance improved during the year and the business returned to profit. Roof-Pro was restructured during the 
year and its ongoing performance should now benefit from recent product launches, including the new Surefoot range, and from a lower 
overhead base. The assumptions used in the various Goodwill impairment reviews and related sensitivity analyses are detailed in note 14 to  
the financial statements. The headroom between value in use and capital employed at each of APC, Blackdown and Roof-Pro remains limited 
and delivery against performance improvement plan targets is needed in the 2014/15 financial year and beyond to avoid future impairment 
charges. In view of all the above, the Committee was satisfied that there was no impairment to the carrying value of the relevant assets at  
30 June 2014. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
29 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Governance 
Audit Committee Report
(ii) Revenue and Profit Recognition on Construction Contracts
 Revenue and profit recognition on construction contracts that span more than one accounting period is an inherently judgmental area, involving 
estimation of the percentage of contract completion, and estimates of costs to complete the work. As part of continuous improvement activities 
during the year, the Committee supported management in strengthening its internal guidance with regard to construction accounting to provide 
greater robustness and consistency of approach throughout the group. Most of the larger, more material construction contracts spanning the  
30 June 2014 year end were substantially complete, thereby reducing the degree of estimation and judgment required. Accordingly, the 
Committee was satisfied with the level of revenue and profit recognised on construction contracts at the year end.
(iii) Defined Benefit Pensions Scheme valuation
 As described in the risk review on pages 16 to 17, Alumasc has relatively significant legacy defined benefit pensions obligations in the 
context of the overall size of the group. Therefore, quite small changes to the market assumptions (particularly the discount rate and inflation 
rate) used to value defined benefit pension obligations under IAS19 can have a material impact on the group’s Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Further details are given in note 23 to the financial statements. 
Having reviewed the valuation assumptions adopted by management, in conjunction with actuarial advice received and the review of those 
assumptions by the external auditors, the Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used give rise to an appropriate valuation of the 
group’s pension obligations using IAS19’s valuation methodology.
(iv) Inventory Valuation
 The Committee retains a focus on inventory valuation, partly because these valuations are dependent on the application of up to date costing 
rates and judgments with regard to both the level of labour and production overheads absorbed into the valuation and slow moving and 
obsolete inventory provisions. In addition, the accuracy of the inventory valuation receives particular focus at APC, where there have been 
previous mis-statements of management and financial information in this area. The Committee seeks confirmation at each year end that 
physical quantities of stock have been verified through full inventory counts at each Alumasc manufacturing site and, via feedback from 
management, internal audit and external audit, that appropriate costing rates have been applied and appropriate inventory provisions have 
been made. No particular issues or exceptions were noted from this work either at the 30 June 2013 or 30 June 2014 year ends. 
Assessment of the effectiveness of external audit
The Committee assesses the performance of KPMG both through formal Committee meetings, KPMG’s reports to the Committee and in more 
informal interaction throughout the year. The Committee also receives structured feedback from senior group and operational management on  
the robustness, value added and efficiency of the various external audits across the group during the year.
Having considered this information, the Committee concluded that the external audit process continues to operate effectively and that KMPG 
continued to be effective in their role. 
Assessment of the independence of the external auditor
The group’s policy on the independence of auditors is consistent with the ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices Board.
The firm carrying out the group’s external audit was last changed six years ago, and the Committee assesses the effectiveness and independence  
of the external auditor every year.
Any non-audit services proposed to be carried out by the external auditor are discussed and approved in advance by the Committee. During the 
financial year under review no non-audit services were provided by KPMG. 
In accordance with best practice and professional standards, KPMG’s audit partner retired by rotation from the audit team at the beginning of the 
financial year, having served five years, and was replaced by a new audit partner who previously had not been involved in providing any audit or  
non-audit services to Alumasc. 
KPMG have confirmed to the Committee that they consider themselves to be independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional 
requirements. 
In view of all the above, the Committee remains satisfied with the independence of the external auditor.
Re-appointment of the external auditor
Having reviewed the performance and independence of the external auditors during the year, the Committee has recommended to the Board  
to propose to shareholders that KPMG LLP are re-appointed until the conclusion of the AGM in 2015.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
30 Effective internal control and risk management
The Alumasc Board as a whole acknowledges that it is responsible for the group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  
The system is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. However, this risk cannot be wholly eliminated and therefore  
the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or loss.
The group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business. The process was in place 
during the year and remained in place on the date that the Annual Report and financial statements were approved by the Board. The main elements 
of the group’s internal control process are as follows:
(i) Risk Management
 Risk management is a continuing activity throughout the year, dealt with through the board meetings of operating companies. In addition,  
a formal business risk review exercise is conducted every year at each operating company and for the group as a whole. This identifies the most 
important risks, their likelihood of occurrence and possible business and financial implications and the effectiveness of mitigating controls.  
A group level summary of these risk reviews is provided on pages 16 and 17. Each operating company has implemented procedures for 
controlling the relevant risks of its business.
 Based on their attendance at the board meetings of each operating subsidiary, the Executive Directors report periodically to the Board on the  
risk management processes that have been in place during the year and the effectiveness of the level of control in managing the identified  
risks. The Board is able to confirm that these procedures are ongoing.
(ii) Financial Reporting and Monitoring
 The Board receives regular financial reports, including monthly management accounts, regular re-forecasts, annual budgets and five year strategic 
plans. These procedures are intended to ensure that the Board maintains full and effective control over all financial issues. An Executive Committee, 
comprising the group’s Executive Directors and the Managing Directors of the group’s operating segments within the Building Products division 
reviews that division’s trading activities and addresses matters of common interest with regard to safety, strategic development, performance,  
risk and other matters of mutual group interest. A similar process is followed as part of divisional Engineering Products board meetings.
 Day to day management of the group companies is delegated to operational management with a clearly defined system of control, including:
 • An organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority within each company;
 • The identification and appraisal of business and financial risks both formally, within the annual process of preparing business plans and  
 budgets and informally through close monitoring of operations;
 • A comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets, re-forecasts and the previous
  year’s figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and group level; and
 • An investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of scrutiny and approval for all significant items of capital expenditure.
(iii) Internal Controls Assurance
 The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has reviewed during the year the effectiveness of the system of internal control from information 
provided by management, the group’s external auditors and the results from internal audits. The review included an assessment by the Board  
of the key risks affecting the group in the delivery of its long-term strategies, as summarised on pages 16 and 17.
 Significant progress has been made in strengthening the control environment at Alumasc Precision Components following issues identified  
in 2012. Work to further improve risk management and standards of internal control continued during the year, and work to improve day  
to day inventory control is ongoing. 
(iv) Internal Audit
 The Committee’s view is that the size and complexity of the group and the close involvement of the Executive Directors make it unnecessary  
for Alumasc to have a dedicated internal audit function, although part of the Group Financial Controller’s and Group Reporting Manager’s  
roles are to carry out internal audits in each of the group’s principal operating locations each year. This position is kept under annual review  
by the Committee.
 The principal focus of this internal audit work is to check the existence and effective operation of key internal financial controls. 
 The Committee reviews and approves the proposed scope of internal audit activities each year, and ensures that key risk areas are covered, and 
that agreed recommendations arising from previous internal and external audits are re-reviewed to assess whether they have been implemented.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
31 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Governance 
Audit Committee Report
Whistleblowing policy
The group has a whistleblowing policy, which provides a formal mechanism whereby every group employee can, on a confidential basis, raise 
concerns over potential malpractice or impropriety within the group. A copy of the whistleblowing policy can be found on the group web site  
www.alumasc.co.uk.
Bribery and corruption policy
The group has in place a policy with regard to compliance with the Bribery Act. The group’s anti-bribery policy and guidelines reflect the Directors’ 
zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption of all kinds.
This policy has been cascaded down into the operating companies and training held at head office and subsidiary level. Any matters of particular 
concern whether arising from due diligence or otherwise with regard to related parties as defined in the Act are raised and discussed at monthly 
operating board meetings.
Business ethics policy
The group has in place a business ethics policy, setting out the standards of business conduct that the group expects from its executives  
and employees. This policy is subject to periodic review to ensure it reflects the operation of the group and the business environment in  
which it operates.
Going concern
The Board is satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future for the reasons given in the going concern  
review on page 52.
Richard Saville
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
32  
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report prepared by the Remuneration Committee (The Committee) and approved by the Board for the financial year ending 30 June 2014  
is prepared in accordance with the new reporting regulations that took effect on 1 October 2013.
The Remuneration Committee members throughout the year were Jon Pither (Chairman), Philip Gwyn, Richard Saville and John Pilkington.  
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the remuneration of the Executive Directors. It is also responsible for determining the fees  
of the Chairman. The Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings of the Committee as requested but take no part in deliberations relating  
to their own position. 
The Executive Directors abstain from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where the 
recommendations have a direct bearing on their own remuneration package. 
This report is comprised of three sections:
• The Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Annual Statement
• The Remuneration Policy Report 
• The Annual Remuneration Report, explaining how our remuneration policy has been implemented during 2013/14.
The first and third sections will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders, while the Remuneration Policy will be subject to shareholder approval 
at the company’s Annual General Meeting on 30 October 2014.
The Remuneration Committee’s overall approach remains unchanged from prior years. We are focused on ensuring the group’s remuneration  
policy is aligned with shareholders’ interests while also enabling us to attract, retain and motivate high quality executive management.
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the group’s overall performance against its long-term goals. For the year  
to 30 June 2014, the group has delivered a positive set of results as described in the Stategic Report.  
Particular highlights include:
• Underlying profit before tax increased by 6.4% to £6.3 million
• Reported profit before tax increased substantially to £5.1 million (2012/13: £2.8 million) and basic earnings per share more than doubled  
to 11.3 pence.
During the year the Committee reviewed executive director remuneration packages and concluded that an increase of 5% of base pay was 
appropriate to reflect changes in scope of role and to align with market norms. As set out on page 43 bonus payments equivalent to 12.5% of 
Executive Directors’ base salaries were earned in the year. No LTIP shares vested in the year. In October 2013 the Committee approved conditional 
grant of Alumasc ordinary shares under the Company’s LTIP plan. Details are set out on page 44. The Committee also approved the new Executive 
Share Option Scheme (following the expiry of the old scheme) which will be put for approval before shareholders at the AGM in October. It is not 
currently proposed that the Executive Directors will participate in this scheme.
As a result, for the year ahead, the remuneration policy remains largely unchanged but will be kept under review. The detail of the Directors’ 
remuneration is contained in the report that follows.
Jon Pither
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
33 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Policy overview
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the following:
• The need to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior management;
• Internal pay and benefits practice and employment conditions within the group as a whole; and 
• Periodic external comparisons to examine current market trends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies.
There are five elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors:
• Base salary
• Annual bonus
• Long-term incentives
• Pension provision
• Benefits
The key principles of the policy are:
• A reward structure that balances short-term and long-term performance.
• Base salaries set at around median level for a group of Alumasc’s size, complexity and industry sectors, but with the potential to earn  
upper-quartile rewards for sustained medium to longer term exceptional performance.
• Competitive incentive arrangements underpinned by a balance of financial measures and linked to corporate performance, ensuring  
a focus on business performance and alignment with the interests of shareholders.
As a result, the Committee has determined that the remuneration of Executive Directors will provide an appropriate balance between fixed  
and performance-related elements. The Committee will continue to review the remuneration policy to ensure it takes due account of best 
remuneration practice and that it remains aligned with the interests of shareholders. 
Remuneration policy report
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the group which will become effective at the AGM on  
30 October 2014.
Executive Director policy table
Element of pay 
and purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
Help recruit and 
retain Executive 
Directors.
Provides fixed 
remuneration 
for the Executive 
Directors, 
which reflects 
the individual’s 
experience and 
the size and scope 
of the executive’s 
responsibilities.
Normally reviewed annually on  
1 July and fixed for twelve months.
Salaries are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee taking 
account of those paid by other 
companies of a comparable size 
and complexity, but also takes into 
account a range of factors, including 
any change in responsibilities or the 
scope of the role.
Ordinarily salary increases will 
not exceed the range of salary 
increases to other employees in the 
group. However, salary increases 
may be above this level in certain 
circumstances as required, for 
example, to reflect:
Increase in scope or responsibility; 
Performance in role; or
An executive director being moved  
to align with changing market rates.
No absolute maximum level of base 
salary has been set.
Not applicable.
Benefits
Help recruit  
and retain  
Executive Directors.
Ensures the  
overall package  
is competitive.
Executive Directors are entitled  
to a range of benefits, including  
but not limited to, membership 
of the group’s healthcare scheme, 
ill health and life assurance, and 
car plus fuel (or equivalent cash) 
allowances.
Other benefits may be provided 
based on individual circumstances. 
Such benefits may include but are 
not limited to relocation allowances.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee 
has not set an absolute maximum 
on the level of benefits executive 
directors receive, the value of 
benefits is set at a level which the 
Remuneration Committee considers 
is appropriately positioned against 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity in the relevant market.
Not applicable.
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
34 Element of pay 
and purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Pension
To provide 
competitive 
post-retirement 
benefits and 
reward sustained 
contribution to  
the performance  
of the group.
The group may make payment  
either into a defined contribution plan 
and/or as a separate cash allowance.
Group contributions are determined 
as a percentage of base salary 
and set at a level which the 
Remuneration Committee considers to 
be appropriately positioned against 
comparable roles in companies  
of a similar size and complexity.
Contribution rates (or equivalent 
cash allowances) are up to  
a maximum of 20% of base salary.
Not performance related.
Annual Bonus
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial 
and/or strategic 
business objectives.
Performance measures and targets 
are reviewed and set annually by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Bonus pay-out is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee after the 
relevant year end.
Up to 100% of base salary  
could be earned. However, the usual 
bonus opportunity is up to 50%  
of salary based on achievement  
of results well ahead of target.
The bonus will principally be based 
on the achievement of targets 
related to key business objectives.
The performance measures will 
include at least one of the following:
Underlying profit before tax relative 
to budget; 
Achievement of cash flow 
performance including average 
working capital as a percentage  
of sales, relative to budget; or
Other performance metrics that the 
Remuneration Committee considers 
appropriate from time to time, 
including personal objectives.
The majority of the potential bonus 
will be based on achievement of 
profit targets.
The Remuneration Committee 
will determine an appropriate 
performance range for each  
measure used.
Below the threshold level of profit 
performance, 0% of maximum 
opportunity will be paid and  
a straight line entitlement will usually 
apply between this threshold and 
the target performance.
Up to 12.5% of the normal 
maximum opportunity will be earned 
for target performance and 100%  
for maximum performance.  
There is usually straight line vesting 
between these performance points. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
35 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Element of pay 
and purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
Incentivises 
Executive Directors 
to achieve higher 
returns for 
shareholders over  
a longer time frame.
A claw back applies  
to unvested awards 
enabling the 
company to  
mitigate risk.
Subject to the limits set out in 
the schemes the Remuneration 
Committee may grant awards over 
conditional share awards, nil cost 
share options or such other form  
as has the same economic effect.
Awards are typically granted 
annually and vesting is subject 
to achievement of performance 
measures normally over at least 
three years.
The share scheme rules allow for 
LTIP awards to vest early on a 
change of control (or other relevant 
events) subject to the satisfaction 
of performance conditions and 
pro-rating for time, although the 
Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to increase the extent 
of vesting having due regard to 
performance over the period to  
the change of control.
Future LTIP awards and vesting will 
be subject to a claw back provision 
such that, at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, unvested 
awards may lapse for material errors 
or the misstatement of results or 
information coming to light which, 
had it been known, would have 
affected the award or vesting 
decision or caused reputational 
damage to the group.
The annual LTIP maximum 
opportunity is 75% of base salary  
in respect of each financial year.
Awards vest subject to the 
achievement of performance 
measures assessed over more than 
one financial year (normally three 
years). The performance measures 
for new awards are reviewed 
annually to ensure they remain 
relevant and aligned to the  
group’s strategy.
Performance measures will be based 
on growth in EPS and shareholder 
return. 
A minimum threshold of growth 
in EPS must be reached before any 
vesting occurs. 
25% of the maximum opportunity 
will vest at the minimum threshold.
Above the minimum threshold, the 
performance measures for 2014 will 
be 50% based on EPS growth and 
50% based on total shareholder 
return (TSR). 
For achievement of the upper target 
100% of the maximum opportunity 
will vest; there is straight line vesting 
between the performance points of 
25% and 100%.
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
36 Element of pay 
and purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Non-executive 
Chairman and 
Director fees
The sole element 
of non-executive 
Director 
remuneration  
is fees, set at  
a level that reflects 
market conditions 
and sufficient to 
attract individuals 
with appropriate 
knowledge and 
experience.
Fees are reviewed periodically and 
are determined by the Chairman and 
the executive directors in the case  
of the non-executive Directors and 
the Remuneration Committee in 
respect of the Chairman.
The fee structure is as follows:
The Chairman is paid a single 
consolidated fee;
The non-executive Directors are paid 
a basic fee plus additional fees for 
chairmanship of a committee, or  
for any additional work undertaken 
on behalf of the company;
The non-executive Directors do not 
participate in any of the group’s 
share incentive plans nor do they 
receive any pension contributions. 
Non-executive Directors may be 
eligible to benefits/expenses such  
as the use of secretarial support, 
travel costs or other benefits that 
may be appropriate.
Fees are subject to an overall cap  
as set out in the company’s Articles 
of Association.
Fees are based on the time 
commitment and responsibilities  
of the role.
Fees are appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles in 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity in the relevant market.
No performance-related element  
of remuneration.
Policy for Non-Executive Chairman and Directors’ fees
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
37 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Remuneration Scenarios
Group Chief Executive – Paul Hooper
 
Group Finance Director – Andrew Magson
 
How shareholders’ views are taken into account 
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year. This, plus other feedback received during the year, is then 
considered as part of the group’s annual review of remuneration policy. At the 2013 AGM over 99% of those voting chose to vote in favour of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Committee is grateful to receive this level of support.
How employees’ pay is taken into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group were considered when finalising the current policy for Executive Directors and continues to be considered 
in relation to the implementation of this policy. In order to do so, the Committee assesses the wider pay and employment conditions in other parts of 
the group.
How the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy relates to the wider group 
Both executives, and employees below executive level, have their base pay reviewed each year taking into account wage and general inflation, 
affordability to the group/relevant operating company, performance/development of the individual in their role and general market rates for specific 
skills. Employees below executive level have lower proportions of their total remuneration subject to incentive based rewards. Long term incentives 
are reserved for those judged as having the greatest potential to influence the group’s earnings growth and share price performance.
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only (being base salary, pension  
and benefits) of £308,400 in 2014/15.
“On-target” performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 12.5% of salary paid in bonus (12.5% of maximum opportunity); 
and
• 25% of LTIP award (18.75% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full payout of both short and 
long-term incentives.
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only (being base salary, pension  
and benefits) of £207,200 in 2014/15.
“On-target” performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 12.5% of salary paid in bonus (12.5% of maximum opportunity); 
and
• 25% of LTIP award (12.5% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full payout of both short and 
long-term incentives.
100% Minimum £308,400
Fixed 
Short-term incentive 
Long-term incentive 
Fixed 
Short-term incentive 
Long-term incentive 
42% Maximum £731,900
80% 8%
8%
12%
8%
33% 25%
On-target £384,025
100% Minimum
45% Maximum
84%
37% 18%
On-target
£207,200
£459,200
£249,200
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
38 Service contracts
The Committee’s policy on service contracts for Executive Directors is that they should provide for termination of employment by either side giving  
12 months’ notice. The group’s policy going forward will be that no Executive Director should be entitled to a notice period or payments in excess  
of their contractual arrangements.
No Executive Director has the benefit of provisions in their service contract for the payment of pre-determined compensation in the event  
of termination of employment.
Provision Contractual terms
Contract dates G P Hooper – 28 January 2001 
 A Magson – 7 August 2006
Notice period 12 months
Termination payment  Base salary plus pension contributions and benefits. Any bonus accrued up to cessation may 
also be included at the discretion of the Committee.
Recruitment policy for directors
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the company’s prevailing approved 
remuneration policy at the time of appointment and takes into account the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for a candidate  
of that experience and the importance of securing the relevant individual.
Salary would be provided at such a level as is required to attract the most appropriate candidate. It may be set initially at a below mid-market 
level on the basis that it may progress towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance has been proven and sustained. The specific 
individual annual bonus potential is limited to 100% of base salary and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan may be up to the 
plan maximum of 75% of salary. In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive 
pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer. It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards would be consistent with 
awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to 
appointment may continue. For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation and 
other incidental expenses as appropriate.
If appropriate the Committee may agree on the recruitment of a new executive to a notice period in excess of twelve months, but to reduce  
it to twelve months over a specified period.
The fees for a new Chairman or non-executive Director will be reflective of experience, time commitment, responsibility and scope of the role,  
and will be consistent with the approved remuneration policy at the time.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
The non-executive Directors are engaged for fixed terms, with no notice period, with an entitlement to accrued fees and expenses only up to the 
date of termination. These appointments are subject to the Articles of Association. Directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the company’s articles.
The dates of the current letters of appointment for the non-executive Directors are as follows:
Name Date of letter of appointment Date term due to expire
R C C Saville 1 January 2014 31 December 2014
P H R Gwyn  1 July 2014 30 June 2015
J P Pither 1 July 2014 30 June 2015
J Pilkington 1 March 2014 28 February 2015
W K Walden 2 September 2012 30 October 2015*
*Mr Walden will retire from the Board following the announcement of group results on 2 September 2014.
The Remuneration Committee is permitted to make remuneration decisions within the above policy prior to the policy becoming effective on  
30 October 2014.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
39 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Annual Report on Remuneration
The following sections show how the policy described above will be applied in 2014/15.
Salary:
Salaries for Executive Directors at 30 June 2014 were as follows;
Chief Executive: £230,000
Group Finance Director: £160,000
The Chief Executive’s salary was raised by 5% with effect from 1 July 2014 to £242,000.
The Group Finance Director’s salary was raised by 5% with effect from 1 July 2014 to £168,000.
These increases were awarded to reflect changes in scope of role and alignment to market rates.
Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is set by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. The policy of the Board is that the  
remuneration of the non-executive Directors should be consistent with the levels or remuneration paid by companies of a similar size and  
complexity. Non-executive Directors receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in performing their duties. They do not  
receive any performance related remuneration or pension contributions. Current fee levels are as follows:
   Fee to Additional for 
   30 June 2014  Committee
Name Role Committee Chairman role £000 Chairmanships Total
J S McCall Chairman Nomination 100 – 100
J P Pither Senior Independent Director Remuneration 28 5 33
P H R Gwyn Non-Executive Director – 28 – 28
R C C Saville Non-Executive Director Audit 28 5 33
J Pilkington Non-Executive Director – 28 – 28
W K Walden Non-Executive Director – 28 5* 33
*Remuneration for directorship of Alumasc Precision Limited.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not have contracts of service but their terms are set out in letters of appointment. Appointments are 
subject to earlier termination by three months’ notice on either side. 
Implementation report
Committee role and membership
The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive Directors. Jon Pither (Chairman), Philip Gwyn, Richard Saville and John Pilkington. 
Biographies of the committee members are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Name Position Attendance
J P Pither Committee Chairman 2/2
P H R Gwyn Non-Executive Director  2/2
R C C Saville Non-Executive Director 2/2
J Pilkington Non-Executive Director 2/2
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director may attend meetings 
of the committee, except when their own remuneration is under discussion.
The Committee’s principal functions are to advise the Board on the company’s policy on executive remuneration and to approve the specific 
remuneration of Executive Directors, including their service contracts. Its remit therefore includes, but is not limited to, basic salary, benefits in kind, 
performance-related bonus awards, share options and awards, long-term incentive plans, pension rights and any other compensation or termination 
payments. The detailed terms of reference for the Committee are displayed on the company’s website www.alumasc.co.uk.
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
40 Shareholder voting at AGM
At last year’s AGM (2013) the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
 Total number of votes cast % of votes cast
For 23,285,936 99.9
Against 29,478 0.1
Total votes cast (for and against) 23,315,414 100
Votes withheld 9,558 n/a
Total votes cast (including withheld votes)* 23,324,972 –
*A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ or ‘Against’ a resolution.
Historical total shareholder return performance 
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
June 2009 June 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014
Alumasc Group FTSE All-Share FTSE All-Share Construction & Materials Index
This graph shows the total shareholder return on a hypothetical holding of shares in the company compared with a broad equity market.  
The Directors have chosen to illustrate TSR against the FTSE All Share Index and the All Share Construction and Materials Index. These indexes  
have been selected as, in the opinion of the Directors, they provide a more sound comparison than any subset of the market.
Table of historic data
The following table sets out the total remuneration and the amount vesting under short-term and long-term incentives (as a percentage of the 
maximum that could have been achieved) in each of the past five years for the Chief Executive.
 Chief Executive single figure  Annual bonus payout against Long-term incentive vesting
 of total remuneration maximum opportunity rates against maximum opportunity
Year £000  %  %
2013/14 323 12.5% 0%
2012/13 355 63% 0%
2011/12 306 0% 0%
2010/11 349 43% 0%
2009/10 367 65% 0%
    Pension Long-term
    contributions incentives with
    or payments in performance period Single figure
    lieu of pension ending during of total
 Base salaries/fees Bonuses Benefits in kind contributions the year remuneration
 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13
Director £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
G P Hooper 230 222 29 70 18 18 46 45 – – 323 355
A Magson 160 152 20 49 14 13 24 23 – – 218 237
J S McCall 100 100 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 100 100
J P Pither 33 28 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 33 28
P H R Gwyn 28 23 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 28 23
R C C Saville 33 28 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 33 28
J Pilkington 28 23 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 28 23
W K Walden 33 23 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 33 23
Total 645 599 49 119 32 31 70 68 – – 796 817
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
41 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Relative importance of spend on pay
   Total remuneration
   of all employees of
   The Alumasc Group plc Dividends paid
   £000 £000
2013/14   24,108 1,675
2012/13   23,651 1,069
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
   2013/14 2012/13
   £000 £000 % change
Salary   230 222 +3.6%
Benefits   18 18 –
Bonus   29 70 -58.6% 
Pension   46 45 +2.2%
Total   323 355 -9.1%
Percentage change in average remuneration of all the company’s employees
   2013/14 2012/13
   £000 £000 % change
Salary   29 29 –
Benefits   1 1 –
Bonus   – – – 
Pension   1 1 –
Total   31 31 –
Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted in October 2013
     Percentage
     vesting for Vesting and
  Basis of Face value Maximum vesting threshold performance
 Scheme award granted of award
† 
(% of face value) performance period
G P Hooper 2008 Plan LTIP 75% of base pay £170,486 100% 25% 3 years
A Magson 2008 Plan LTIP 50% of base pay £79,067 100% 25% 3 years
Further details regarding the Long Term Incentive Plan, together with the performance conditions applying to the above awards are set out on  
page 43.
† 
Based on share price of 127p on the day before the date of grant.
Annual bonus
For 2014/15 100% of the annual bonus for Executive Directors will be determined by growth in group underlying profit before tax. The Board considers 
that the targets for the 2013/14 bonus are commercially sensitive and full details will not therefore be fully disclosed until the 2014/15 report.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Awards will be made in 2014 for the Chief Executive, to the extent of 75% of base salary, and to the Group Finance Director, to the extent of 50% 
of base salary. The performance measures for these awards (relative TSR, and EPS growth) will be the same as those which applied to grants made  
in 2013/14, as set out on page 43.
Pension and other benefits
The pension and benefits arrangements are as set out in the policy table above.
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
42 Detailed remuneration policy 
Base salary
Base salary for each Executive Director is reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of the Director’s performance, experience and 
responsibilities. The Committee has regard to salary levels paid by UK listed companies of a similar size and nature. This approach ensures that the 
appropriate benchmark data is used. When determining Executive Directors base salaries, the Committee also considers wider economic factors,  
the performance of the group as a whole and the general level of salary increases across the group. 
Benefits in kind and pension
The group operates a policy whereby Executive Directors are given a cash alternative to a company car, health insurance, disability insurance and life 
cover. Pension provision is provided by company and executive contributions into defined contribution schemes. The group has two closed defined 
benefit schemes and there are no plans to reintroduce such schemes.
Bonus arrangements 
The Committee’s general policy is that Executive Directors should receive a bonus in relation to the achievement of stretching performance targets 
which reflect how well the group has performed against budget. The committee wishes to retain the flexibility to set bonus targets which reward 
outperformance against predetermined performance objectives and which reflect the needs of the business.
Long Term Incentive Plan 
The group operates the Long Term Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) which was approved by shareholders in October 2008. The purpose of the Plan is to 
motivate key individuals to take the company upon a programme of long term growth and to reward them for exceptional performance. Under the 
Plan each participant is allocated a number of shares. The vesting of shares under the Plan is subject to the achievement of performance criteria, 
which are described below.
Each award is dependent partially on an EPS performance condition and partially on total shareholder return (“TSR”), meaning a measure of 
the growth in value of the ordinary shares of the company over the performance period, assuming that all dividends are reinvested to purchase 
additional shares. The relative weighting to be attributed to EPS and TSR in a particular award is decided upon by the Remuneration Committee.
In October 2013 the Chief Executive was given an LTIP award of 134,241 shares and the Group Finance Director was given an LTIP award of  
62,257 shares which equated to 75% and 50% of base salary respectively. 
The performance measures set out comprises 50% TSR and 50% group earnings per share above a minimum threshold as described in the  
policy table above. 
Following the performance review of the LTIP’s awarded in November 2011 no shares will vest under this grant. 
External appointments
Neither of the Executive Directors has any external paid directorships. Executive Directors are permitted to accept external board or committee 
appointments provided they do not interfere with the Executive Directors’ obligations to the company. The Board will decide at the time of 
appointment whether the Executive Director may retain the fees for such appointments.
Pension provision
The defined benefit pension schemes are closed and neither Mr Hooper nor Mr Magson have benefits provided under these schemes. The group 
makes provision to pay 20% of Mr Hooper’s base salary and 15% of Mr Magson’s base salary into a defined contribution pension scheme of each 
executive’s choosing.
Bonus
The maximum bonus opportunity was set at 50% for Mr Hooper and Mr Magson. The maximum bonus achievable would only be paid on 
significantly exceeding budget targets. Following assessment of the financial targets set at the start of the financial year a total payment of  
£28,750 was made to the Chief Executive and £20,000 to the Group Finance Director.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
43 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Executive Share Option Scheme
Executives have in the past, been able to participate in the Executive Share Option Scheme approved by shareholders in 2004. This scheme is 
designed to encourage the matching of interests between management and shareholders. No awards under the scheme were made to Executive 
Directors during the year. The Chief Executive continues to participate by virtue of an award made in 2006, which may be exercised until 2016 on 
condition that the growth in earnings per share (EPS) exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) by 7.5% over the course of a continuous 
three year period. A resolution to adopt a further ten year Executive Share Option scheme will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. 
Executive Share Option Scheme
  Earliest  As at    At 
 Exercise exercise Expiry  1 July Exercised Granted Lapsed 30 June 
 price date date 2013 in year in year in year 2014
G P Hooper 171.2p April 2009 April 2016 39,878 – – – 39,878
Long Term Incentive Plans
  Market Earliest As at  Market   At 
 Date price at exercise  1 July Vested price at Granted Lapsed 30 June 
 of award award date* date 2013 in year vesting date in year in year 2014
 
G P Hooper
2008 Plan Nov 2010 129.5p Oct 2013 153,261 – – – 153,261 –
 Nov 2011 140p Nov 2014 135,448 – – – – 135,448
 Mar 2013 98p Mar 2016 174,519 – – – – 174,519
 Oct 2013 127p Oct 2017 – – – 134,241 – 134,241
Total 2008 Plan    463,228   134,241 153,261 444,208
 
A Magson
2008 Plan Nov 2010 129.5p Oct 2013 63,043 – – – 63,043 –
 Nov 2011 140p Nov 2014 56,716 – – – – 56,716
 Mar 2013 98p Mar 2016 73,076 – – – – 73,076
 Oct 2013 127p Oct 2017 – – – 62,257 – 62,257
Total 2008 Plan    192,835 – – 62,257 63,043 192,049
All awards under the 2008 Plan have a £nil exercise price.
The aggregate of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was £nil (2013: £nil) 
*  The market price at the award date is based on the price at the date the employee trust granted the award. This price can differ from the market value at the date the Remuneration 
Committee recommended the award to the trust.
Directors’ holdings in shares
There is no requirement of directors to hold a specific number of shares in the company. Details of Directors’ holdings are set out on page 23  
of the Directors’ Report.
Employee Trust
At the year end the employee trust held 485,171 ordinary shares. The market value of the shares held in trust at 30 June 2014 was £565,224.
Company share price
The closing mid-market price of the shares on 30 June 2014 was 116p and ranged between 89p and 140p per share during the year.
On behalf of the Board
J P Pither
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
2 September 2014
Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
44 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of The Alumasc Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2014 set out on pages 48 to 91. In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 2014 and  
of the group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit  
were as follows:
Carrying value of goodwill (£16.5m)
Refer to page 29 (Audit Committee Report), page 53 (accounting policy) and pages 66 to 67 (financial disclosures)
• The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the group’s goodwill balances in Roof-Pro and Blackdown due to recent trading within these 
divisions. The group uses a discounted cash flow model to support the carrying value of goodwill in each case. This model uses certain 
key assumptions including revenues, margins and cost base forecasts. In the case of Blackdown, a partial impairment of goodwill was 
recognised in December 2012 following a restructuring of the business. Since that time the business has returned to profit, and a 
continuation of this improving trend will be needed to support the residual goodwill value of £0.6 million. Roof-Pro, which has a carrying 
value of goodwill of £3.2 million, has been restructured more recently and has launched a major new product line in the last few months. 
Should the forecasts that underpin these discounted cash flow models not be achieved, this could result in the recoverable amounts of 
goodwill balances falling below their respective carrying amounts. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash 
flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is focused on.
• Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, testing the principles and integrity of the group’s budgets and discounted 
cash flow models. We critically assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions and methodologies used by the group. In particular the 
assumptions relating to the forecast revenue growth and profit margins within Roof-Pro and Blackdown were assessed by reference to 
historical profit margins and through challenging the assumptions applied. We performed sensitivity analysis on the key inputs such as 
projected economic growth and cost inflation and on discount rates. We also assessed whether the group’s disclosures about the sensitivity 
of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Contract revenue recognition (£21.3m) 
Refer to page 30 (Audit Committee Report), page 57 (accounting policy) and pages 69 to 70 (financial disclosures)
• The risk: The group recognises contract revenue on the stage of completion method by reference to the achievement of contractual milestones. 
The point at which the contract outcome can be estimated reliably and the measurement of the stage of completion both involve significant 
judgements. For instance significant judgements around the point at which the contract outcome can be estimated reliably include assumptions 
made in conjunction with the complexity of the contractual arrangements in relation to variations and claims. There is a risk that revenue may 
have been recognised incorrectly where it could not be reliably estimated. Further, there is a risk that the judgements taken when determining 
the achievement of contractual milestones in the stage of completion method were incorrect and as such the amount of revenue recognised 
could be incorrect. Both of these risks could lead to material misstatements within the financial statements.
• Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, detailed testing of controls over the matching of invoices to quantity surveyor 
certificates. To do this we identified all contracts with high values or unusual terms and tested a sample of these to assess the appropriateness 
of the judgements made in determining the outcome of contracts. We compared the levels of revenue recognised to the quantity surveyor 
assessments and milestones detailed within the contracts. We also analysed correspondence with customers around variations and claims and 
considered whether this information was consistent with the estimates made by the directors. We also considered the adequacy of the group’s 
disclosures about the degree of judgement involved in arriving at the contract revenues.
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the members of The Alumasc Group plc only
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
45 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Post retirement benefits (gross liability – £104m; net liability – £17.9m) 
Refer to page 30 (Audit Committee Report), page 55 (accounting policy) and pages 75 to 77 (financial disclosures)
• The risk: Due to the materiality of the defined benefit pension obligation, small changes in the key assumptions, being the discount rate, 
inflation and mortality rates, can have a significant effect on the group’s results and financial position.
• Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, assessing the key assumptions, being the discount rate, inflation and mortality 
rates, used in the group’s valuation of the defined benefit pension obligation with the support of our own actuarial specialists. This included 
critically assessing the key assumptions used by comparison with those used by other comparable companies and with externally derived 
market data. We also considered the adequacy of the group’s disclosures of the assumptions and the sensitivities of these.
Carrying value of inventory (£12.5m) 
Refer to page 30 (Audit Committee Report), page 54 (accounting policy) and page 69 (financial disclosures)
• The risk: The specialist nature of the group’s inventory means that it can be slow moving and therefore the group’s inventory provision  
is an inherently judgmental area, in need of careful review. In addition, changes in production and in the cost base of raw materials impact  
the carrying amount of work in progress that is recognised at cost plus absorbed overheads. Management have identified late adjustments  
in prior years at Alumasc Precision Components in these areas. Due to the level of judgment involved, there is a risk that the carrying value  
of inventory could be misstated.
• Our response: Our procedures included, amongst others, testing the controls in place over the matching of invoices to purchase orders.  
We critically assessed the ageing of inventory by challenging the appropriateness of the directors’ approach for providing against aged/obsolete 
items and by comparing the group provisioning policy with the nature of the inventory being provided against. We attended the year end 
inventory counts and challenged the inventory provisioning in line with our observations of potentially obsolete inventory. We tested a sample 
of the inventory and compared the carrying value to recent sales invoices to ensure provisions were appropriately applied. We tested the 
calculation of overhead absorption by critically assessing the method of calculation and challenging the levels of overhead absorbed compared 
to actual overhead costs incurred and in comparison to prior year levels. We have also considered the adequacy of the group’s disclosures about 
the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision and the required disclosures in relation to the amount of write down of inventory 
recognised as an expense in the year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at £550,000. This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of 
group revenue (of which it represents 0.5%), which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing 
the financial performance of the group. 
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value  
in excess of £30,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The group audit team performed audits for group reporting purposes over Alumasc Precision Components, Dyson, AEBP , Blackdown, Elkington 
Gatic, Levolux, Levolux AT, Benjamin Priest and The Alumasc Group plc. These entities are all located in the UK. In addition, the group audit team 
performed specified audit procedures over the remaining five components being Roof-Pro, Elkington China, SCP , AIBP and Timloc. These group 
procedures covered 99% of group revenue, 99% of group profit before tax, and 99% of group assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set  
by the group audit team. These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from £79,000 to £431,000.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the financial statements; and 
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 27 to 28 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the members of The Alumasc Group plc only
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
46 5  We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that they 
consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 27 to 28 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 26, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial  
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the 
company’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website 
at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
 
Mark Matthewman (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Altius House
1 North Fourth Street
Central Milton Keynes
MK9 1NE
2 September 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
47 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 30 June 2014
    2013/14   2012/13 (re-stated)*
  Underlying Non-underlying Total Underlying  Non-underlying Total
  Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 3,4 113,402 – 113,402 116,769 – 116,769
Cost of sales  (82,778) – (82,778) (86,087) – (86,087)
Gross profit  30,624 – 30,624 30,682 – 30,682
Net operating expenses before  
 non-underlying items   (23,846) – (23,846) (24,033) – (24,033)
Brand amortisation 5 – (268) (268) – (273) (273)
IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme  
 administration costs 5 – (452) (452) – (400) (400)
Restructuring and acquisition costs 5 – – – – (814) (814)
Impairment 5,13 – – – – (625) (625)
Net operating expenses  (23,846) (720) (24,566) (24,033) (2,112) (26,145)
Operating profit 4 6,778 (720) 6,058 6,649 (2,112) 4,537
Finance income 8 10 – 10 16 – 16
Finance expenses 8 (531) (448) (979) (783) (996) (1,779)
Profit before taxation  6,257 (1,168) 5,089 5,882 (3,108) 2,774
Tax (expense)/income 9 (1,514) 466 (1,048) (1,512) 624 (888)
Profit for the year  4,743 (702) 4,041 4,370 (2,484) 1,886
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be recycled  
 to profit or loss:   
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined  
 benefit pensions 23   (9,350)   3,597
Tax on actuarial loss/(gain)  
 on defined benefit pensions 9   1,618   (924)
    (7,732)   2,673
Items that are or may be recycled 
 subsequently to profit or loss:   
Effective portion of changes in fair value 
 of cash flow hedges    (70)   5
Exchange differences on retranslation 
 of foreign operations    (19)   15
Tax on cash flow hedge 9   20   5
    (69)   25
Other comprehensive (loss)/income  
 for the year, net of tax    (7,801)   2,698
Total comprehensive (loss)/income  
 for the year, net of tax     (3,760)   4,584
Earnings per share    Pence   Pence
Basic earnings per share  11   11.3   5.3
Diluted earnings per share  11   11.2   5.3
* Pension costs in 2012/13 have been re-stated in accordance with IAS19 (revised), which became effective this financial year. Further details are provided in note 2.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
48   2014 2014 2013 2013
 Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets     
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 12 12,039  12,872 
Goodwill 13 16,488  16,488 
Other intangible assets 14 2,770  2,976 
Financial asset investments 15 17  17 
Deferred tax assets 9 3,584  2,314 
   34,898  34,667
Current assets     
Inventories 16 12,523  12,131 
Biological assets 17 171  163 
Trade and other receivables 18 23,693  23,529 
Cash and cash equivalents 28 2,224  9,147 
Derivative financial assets 22 40  63 
   38,651  45,033
Total assets   73,549  79,700
Liabilities     
Non-current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 21,28 (9,890)  (16,834) 
Employee benefits payable 23 (17,922)  (10,062) 
Provisions 24 (1,047)  (572) 
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (1,220)  (1,515) 
   (30,079)  (28,983)
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables 19 (25,694)  (27,162) 
Provisions 24 (221)  (528) 
Income tax payable  (445)  (584) 
Derivative financial liabilities 22 (68)  – 
   (26,428)  (28,274)
Total liabilities   (56,507)  (57,257)
Net assets   17,042  22,443
Equity     
Called up share capital 25 4,517  4,517 
Share premium 26 445  445 
Capital reserve – own shares 26 (618)  (618) 
Hedging reserve 26 (62)  (12) 
Foreign currency reserve 26 32  51 
Profit and loss account reserve  12,728  18,060 
Total equity   17,042  22,443
G P Hooper A Magson 
Director Director
2 September 2014
Company number 1767387
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
At 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
49 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 30 June 2014
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
   Notes £000 £000
Operating activities   
Operating profit    6,058 4,537
Adjustments for:   
 Depreciation    12 2,059 2,331
 Amortisation   14 381 543
 Impairment   13 – 625
 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (3) (67)
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories    (394) 2,236
 Increase in biological assets    (8) (72)
 (Increase)/decrease in receivables    (164) 3,188
 Decrease in trade and other payables    (998) (1,835)
 Movement in provisions    168 15
 Cash contributions to retirement benefit schemes   23 (1,992) (1,992)
 Share based payments    34 –
Cash generated from operations    5,141 9,509
Tax paid    (1,114) (267)
Net cash inflow from operating activities    4,027 9,242
Investing activities   
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (1,319) (1,476)
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets    (175) (43)
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment    10 83
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired   13 (320) (399)
Interest received    10 16
Net cash outflow from investing activities    (1,794) (1,819)
Financing activities   
Interest paid    (465) (764)
Equity dividends paid    (1,675) (1,069)
Repayment of amounts borrowed   28 (7,000) (3,000)
Net cash outflow from financing activities    (9,140) (4,833)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents    28 (6,907) 2,590
Net cash and cash equivalents brought forward    9,147 6,550
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes    (16) 7
Net cash and cash equivalents carried forward   28 2,224 9,147
Net cash and cash equivalents comprise:   
Cash and cash equivalents   28 2,224 9,147
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
50 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 30 June 2014
       Profit 
    Capital  Foreign and loss
  Share Share reserve – Hedging currency account Total
  capital premium own shares reserve reserve reserve equity
 Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 July 2012  4,517 445 (618) (22) 36 14,570 18,928
Profit for the period  – – – – – 1,886 1,886
Exchange differences on  
 retranslation of foreign operations  – – – – 15 – 15
Net gain on cash flow hedges  – – – 5 – – 5
Tax on derivative financial liability  – – – 5 – – 5
Actuarial gain on defined  
 benefit pensions, net of tax  – – – – – 2,673 2,673
Dividends 10 – – – – – (1,069) (1,069)
At 1 July 2013  4,517 445 (618) (12) 51 18,060 22,443
Profit for the period  – – – – – 4,041 4,041
Exchange differences on  
 retranslation of foreign operations  – – – – (19) – (19)
Net loss on cash flow hedges  – – – (70) – – (70)
Tax on derivative financial liability  – – – 20 – – 20
Actuarial loss on defined  
 benefit pensions, net of tax  – – – – – (7,732) (7,732)
Dividends 10 – – – – – (1,675) (1,675)
Share based payments 27 – – – – – 34 34
At 30 June 2014  4,517 445 (618) (62) 32 12,728 17,042
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
51 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
1 Basis of preparation
The Alumasc Group plc is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock 
Exchange.
The group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted  
by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the group for the year ended 30 June 2014, and the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out  
in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 19. The financial position of the group, its cashflows and liquidity position are set out in these financial 
statements. Details of the group’s borrowing facilities are described within note 22.
The group has £23 million of banking facilities, of which £20 million is committed until June 2016. In addition, the group has recently renewed 
overdraft facilities totalling £3 million for another year. At 30 June 2014 the group’s net indebtedness was £7.7 million (2013: £7.7 million). 
On the basis of the group’s financing facilities, pension deficit recovery plan commitments, current financial plans and sensitivity analyses,  
the Board is satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as noted below, which are the new standards 
or amendments to standards mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2013 that have had an impact on the group  
or company financial statements:
The group has adopted amendments to IAS19 (revised) Employee Benefits in the current financial year and has re-stated the prior year’s results 
accordingly, reducing PBT by £628,000 and increasing the actuarial gain in Other comprehensive income by the same amount. There was no 
impact on the statement of financial position. As a consequence, the group has changed its accounting policies with respect to the basis for 
accounting for finance income/expense on the value of the defined benefit pension schemes’ assets/liabilities and with respect to the costs of 
administering defined benefit pension schemes. The group now determines finance income/expense for the period relating to defined benefit 
pension schemes by applying the discount rate used for valuing the schemes’ liabilities to the value of the net pension asset/liability at the 
beginning of the year. Previously, the group calculated finance income by applying the expected return on assets to the value of the schemes’ 
assets at the beginning of the year and finance expense by applying the discount rate to the value of the schemes’ liabilities at the beginning  
of the year (taking in to account any changes during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments). Additionally, the expense of 
administering the pension schemes is now charged separately to operating profit within the income statement. Previously it was accounted for 
as a reduction in the expected return on schemes’ assets. 
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the company and each of its subsidiaries made up to 30 June each year. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control in this context means the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the 
investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights. The financial statements of 
subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and 
transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
52 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Judgements and estimates
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets  
and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, the measurement  
and valuation of defined benefit pension obligations and, to a lesser degree, recognition of revenues and profit on construction contracts. 
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection 
of a suitable discount rate. The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value 
in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing  
a suitable discount rate (see note 13). 
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates and the selection of  
a suitable discount rate (see note 23).
Revenue recognised on construction contracts is determined by the assessment of completion stage of each contract. The requirement for 
Directors’ judgement is limited in most cases due to the involvement of quantity surveyors during the assessment process as detailed within  
the revenue recognition accounting policy.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
As part of its transition to IFRS, the group elected to re-state only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 July 2004. In respect 
of acquisitions prior to 1 July 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP. 
For acquisitions on or after 1 July 2004, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. When the excess is negative (negative goodwill), it is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for 
impairment at least annually, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. The carrying 
amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of 
an operation within it. 
Other intangible assets
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination 
is recognised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured 
reliably. Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income statement in the year in 
which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the following criteria are met:
– the project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated;
– the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed; and 
– the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives, as follows:
– computer software   2 to 5 years
– development expenditure  up to 10 years
– brands     3 to 20 years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable. In addition, the carrying value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually and before being 
brought into use.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
53 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to 
making the asset capable of operating as intended. Under IFRS transitional provisions, the group elected to bring in previous valuations of 
freehold and long leasehold land and buildings at a valuation frozen under FRS15, and these amounts are carried forward at deemed cost.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The cost of other property, plant and equipment is written off by equal monthly instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings   – 25 to 50 years
Long leasehold property   –  over the period of the lease to a maximum of 50 years
Short leasehold improvements – over the period of the lease
Plant and equipment   – 3 to 15 years
Motor vehicles    – 4 to 5 years
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, each part is accounted for as a separate item.  
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
Impairment of fixed assets
The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business 
segment level or business level as the case may be. 
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Leased assets
Assets held under leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group are classified as finance 
leases and are capitalised with a corresponding liability being recognised for the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. The interest element of the rental obligation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income  
in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals 
payable are charged in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Financial assets
When financial assets are recognised initially under IAS39, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable 
transaction costs.
The group’s investments are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. As there is no active market for these investments their fair value 
cannot be reliably measured subsequent to initial recognition, and they are therefore held at cost less impairment.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis after making due allowance for any obsolete  
or slow moving items. In the case of finished goods and work in progress, cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of manufacturing overheads. The allocation of manufacturing overheads has regard to normal production.
The group holds certain raw materials from suppliers on an inventory held on consignment basis, which are accounted for as consumed.  
This inventory remains the property of the supplier until used. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
54 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Biological assets
Biological assets relate to the value of horticultural inventories at Blackdown Greenroofs, which form part of the green roof systems supplied  
by this business. The assets are measured at fair value, being discounted market value less estimated point-of-sale costs, with any change 
therein recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Point-of-sale costs include all costs that would be necessary to sell the assets. 
Pension costs
The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes as follows:
(i) Defined benefit pensions
The group operates two principal defined benefit schemes which require deficit reduction contributions to be made to separately administered 
funds. One of the schemes was closed to future benefit accrual in 2009, the other in 2010, with neither closure resulting in a curtailment gain 
or loss. Prior to this, benefits were accrued under the career average revalued earnings (CARE) basis.
Prior to the closure of these schemes to future benefit accrual, the cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans was determined 
separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine 
current service cost) and is based on actuarial advice.
The group determines finance income/expense for the period relating to defined benefit pension schemes by applying the discount rate used 
for valuing the schemes’ liabilities to the value of the net pension liability at the beginning of the year.
The interest cost on the liabilities is charged to finance costs and the expected return on plan assets is credited to finance income.
The expense of administering the pension schemes is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. These comprise, for scheme assets, 
the difference between the expected and actual return on assets, and, for scheme liabilities, the difference between the actuarial assumptions 
and actual experience, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the statement of financial position comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the 
obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid 
price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any 
amount the group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
(ii)  Defined contribution pensions
The pension cost charge to the statement of comprehensive income of the group’s defined contribution schemes represents the contributions 
payable by the group to the funds. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the group in independently administered funds.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax 
rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
–  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
–  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the reversal of 
the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
–  deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is 
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
55 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the year end  
date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised in the consolidated  
income statement.
Own shares
The Alumasc Group plc shares held by the group are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘own shares’ and are recognised at cost.  
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale  
and the original cost being taken to reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale,  
issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Equity settled share based payment transactions
The fair value of long term incentive awards and share options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense from the  
date of grant, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.  
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares for which the related service and non-market  
vesting conditions are met.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on  
the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar  
maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. 
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how 
effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such items are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, the hedges used by the group are classified as cash flow hedges, as they hedge exposure to variability  
in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the  
income statement. 
The portion of the gain or loss on a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge is initially recognised directly in equity,  
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement at the time when the underlying transaction being hedged affects profit  
or loss, such as when the forecast sale or purchase of the hedged item occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset  
or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, 
amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction being hedged occurs and are transferred to the income 
statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the related transaction is not expected to occur,  
the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Information regarding both the qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the group’s treasury activities is presented to enable the improved 
evaluation of the group’s exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
56 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, and is stated net of rebates, and before VAT and other sales 
taxes or duty. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, 
usually on despatch of the goods.
Tooling
Revenue generated on tooling work is recognised when work on the tool has been completed and it has been accepted by the customer.
Construction contracts
Contract revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments to the 
extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and can be measured reliably. As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can 
be estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the 
contract.
The stage of completion, in most cases, is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed. When the outcome of a contract cannot be 
estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. An expected  
loss on a contract is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Provision is made when there 
is objective evidence that the group will not be able to recover balances in full. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance 
revenue and finance costs. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense over the period to the maturity of the underlying instrument.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow  
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Where the group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example 
under an insurance policy, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating 
to any provision is presented in the statement of comprehensive income net of any reimbursement. 
New standards and interpretations not applied
The group has considered all new standards and interpretations that are endorsed but not effective at the year end and views that there  
will be no significant impact on the financial statements next year.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
57 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
3 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income is analysed as follows:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Revenue arising from:
Sales of goods    90,468 87,450
Sales of tooling    1,679 2,384
Recognised on construction contracts    21,255 26,935
Revenue (per statement of comprehensive income)    113,402 116,769
Rental income    70 147
Finance income (note 8)    10 16
Total revenue    113,482 116,932
4 Segmental analysis 
In accordance with IFRS8 Operating Segments, the segmental analysis below follows the group’s internal management reporting structure. 
The Chief Executive reviews internal management reports on a monthly basis, with performance being measured based on segmental operating 
result as disclosed below. Performance is measured on this basis as management believes this information is the most relevant when evaluating 
the impact of strategic decisions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into applying normal commercial terms that would be available to third parties. Segment results, assets 
and liabilities include those items directly attributable to a segment. Unallocated assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, 
income tax recoverable and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a reportable segment. Unallocated liabilities 
comprise borrowings, employee benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities, income tax payable and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated 
on a reasonable basis to a reportable segment. 
Analysis by reportable segment 2013/14
    Revenue
     Segmental
   Inter-  Operating
  External segment  Total  Result 
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Solar Shading & Screening  16,339 – 16,339 507
Roofing & Walling  26,927 – 26,927 2,929
Energy Management  43,266 – 43,266 3,436
    
Construction Products  15,534 – 15,534 1,676
Rainwater, Drainage & Other  24,626 60 24,686 3,196
Water Management & Other  40,160 60 40,220 4,872
    
Building Products  83,426 60 83,486 8,308
    
Alumasc Precision  29,976 1,068 31,044 (198)
Engineering Products  29,976 1,068 31,044 (198)
    
Elimination/Unallocated costs  – (1,128) (1,128) (1,332)
Total  113,402 – 113,402 6,778
     £000
Segmental operating result     6,778
Brand amortisation     (268)
IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme administration costs     (452)
Total operating profit     6,058
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
58 4 Segmental analysis (continued)
Analysis by reportable segment 2013/14 (continued)
  Capital expenditure 
   Property, Other
 Segment Segment Plant & Intangible
 Assets Liabilities Equipment Assets Depreciation Amortisation
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Solar Shading & Screening 17,914 (4,818) 16 50 49 168
Roofing & Walling 12,387 (6,208) 203 12 132 10
Energy Management 30,301 (11,026) 219 62 181 178
      
Construction Products 7,291 (2,947) 211 97 176 38
Rainwater, Drainage & Other 13,095 (5,319) 378 7 460 133
Water Management & Other 20,386 (8,266) 589 104 636 171
      
Building Products 50,687 (19,292) 808 166 817 349
      
Alumasc Precision 16,791 (6,643) 424 8 1,017 19
Engineering Products 16,791 (6,643) 424 8 1,017 19
      
Unallocated 6,071 (30,572) 1 1 225 13
Total 73,549 (56,507) 1,233 175 2,059 381
Analysis by reportable segment 2012/13
    Revenue 
     Segmental
   Inter-  Operating
  External segment Total Result 
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Solar Shading & Screening  18,086 – 18,086 841
Roofing & Walling  32,569 – 32,569 3,094
Energy Management  50,655 – 50,655 3,935
    
Construction Products  17,109 – 17,109 2,415
Rainwater, Drainage & Other  20,448 77 20,525 2,029
Water Management & Other  37,557 77 37,634 4,444
    
Building Products  88,212 77 88,289 8,379
    
Alumasc Precision  28,557 859 29,416 (461)
Engineering Products  28,557 859 29,416 (461)
    
Elimination/Unallocated costs  – (936) (936) (1,269)
Total  116,769 – 116,769 6,649
    
     £000
Segmental operating result     6,649
Brand amortisation     (273)
IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme administration costs     (400)
Restructuring and acquisition costs     (814)
Impairment     (625)
Total operating profit     4,537
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
59 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
4 Segmental analysis (continued)
Analysis by reportable segment 2012/13 (continued)
  Capital expenditure
   Property, Other
 Segment  Segment Plant & Intangible
 Assets Liabilities Equipment Assets Depreciation Amortisation
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Solar Shading & Screening 17,999 (5,047) 13 10 67 168
Roofing & Walling 11,260 (6,413) 156 10 148 169
Energy Management 29,259 (11,460) 169 20 215 337
      
Construction Products 7,768 (3,595) 300 1 192 1
Rainwater, Drainage & Other 12,324 (5,082) 175 13 513 139
Water Management & Other 20,092 (8,677) 475 14 705 140
      
Building Products 49,351 (20,137) 644 34 920 477
      
Alumasc Precision 18,413 (7,131) 729 9 1,178 53
Engineering Products 18,413 (7,131) 729 9 1,178 53
      
Unallocated 11,936 (29,989) 2 – 233 13
Total 79,700 (57,257) 1,375 43 2,331 543
Analysis by geographical segment 2013/14
  United  North Middle Far Rest of
  Kingdom Europe   America East East World Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sales to external customers 91,607 9,003 7,642 1,795 2,342 1,013 113,402
Segment non-current assets 31,279 – – – 35 – 31,314
Analysis by geographical segment 2012/13
  United  North  Middle Far Rest of
  Kingdom Europe America East East World Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sales to external customers 89,111 6,609 14,191 1,518 4,190 1,150 116,769
Segment non-current assets 32,303 – 7 – 43 – 32,353
Segment revenue by geographical segment represents revenue from external customers based upon the geographical location of the customer. 
The analyses of segment non-current assets are based upon location of the assets.
5 Non-underlying items
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Brand amortisation    (268) (273)
IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme administration costs    (452) (400)
IAS19 (revised) – net pension scheme finance costs (note 8)    (448) (996)
Restructuring and acquisition costs    – (814)
Impairment    – (625)
    (1,168) (3,108)
Restructuring and acquisition costs in the prior year related to both restructuring and redundancy costs and the costs of acquiring Rainclear 
Systems Limited.
The impairment charge in the prior year of £625,000 related to a partial write down of the carrying value of goodwill in Blackdown 
Greenroofs. Goodwill relating to Blackdown Greenroofs was reduced from £1,251,000 to £626,000 at 31 December 2012.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
60 6 Expenses by nature
The following items have been charged/(credited) in arriving at operating profit:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Raw materials and consumables    57,425 59,207
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    2,059 2,331
Intangible assets amortisation    113 270
Brand amortisation    268 273
Impairment    – 625
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (3) (67)
Foreign exchange losses     75 20
Employee benefit expense    26,530 26,011
Pension scheme administration costs    452 400
Operating lease payments - plant    1,122 768
Income from property operating leases    (70) (147)
Research and development    236 291
Auditors’ remuneration:  
 Audit of these financial statements    56 56
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    91 94
 Other assurance services    – 1
Other operating charges    18,990 22,099
    107,344 112,232
7 Employee costs and numbers  
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Employee benefit expense:
Wages and salaries    23,524 23,041
Social security    2,422 2,360
Pension costs (note 23)
– defined contribution plans    584 610
– IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme administration costs    452 400
– IAS19 (revised) – net pension scheme finance costs    448 996
    27,430 27,407
Pension costs include total defined benefit pension scheme costs of £900,000 (2012/13: £1,396,000).
    2013/14 2012/13
    Number Number
Average number of employees:
Building products    464 449
Engineering products    311 319
    775 768
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
61 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
8 Net finance costs 
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Finance income – Bank interest    (10) (16)
Finance costs – Bank loans and overdrafts    68 106
 – Revolving credit facility    463 677
     531 783
 – IAS19 (revised) – net pension scheme finance costs    448 996
    979 1,779
9 Tax expense 
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Tax charged in the statement of comprehensive income
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax charge    971 909
Overseas tax    30 40
Amounts over provided in previous years    (26) (21)
Total current tax    975 928
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences    249 1
Rate change adjustment    (176) (41)
Total deferred tax    73 (40)
Total tax expense    1,048 888
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income  
Deferred tax:  
Actuarial (losses)/gains on pension schemes    (1,618) 924
Cash flow hedge    (20) (5)
Tax (credited)/charged to other comprehensive income    (1,638) 919
Total tax (credit)/charge in the statement of comprehensive income   (590) 1,807
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The total tax rate applicable to the tax expense shown in the statement of total comprehensive income of 20.6% is lower than (2012/13: 32.0% 
was higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.5% (2012/13: 23.75%). The differences are reconciled below:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Profit before taxation    5,089 2,774
  
Current tax at the UK standard rate of 22.5% (2012/13: 23.75%)    1,145 659
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes    105 291
Rate change adjustment    (176) (41)
Tax over provided in previous years – corporation tax    (26) (21)
    1,048 888
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
62 9 Tax expense (continued)
(c) Unrecognised tax losses
The group has agreed tax capital losses in the UK amounting to £21 million (2013: £21 million) that relate to prior years. Under current 
legislation these losses are available for offset against future chargeable gains. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect  
of these losses, as they do not meet the criteria for recognition.
Revaluation gains on land and buildings amount to £1 million (2013: £1 million). These may be offset against the capital losses detailed  
above, therefore net capital losses carried forward amount to £20 million (2013: £20 million). The capital losses are able to be carried  
forward indefinitely.
(d) Deferred tax
A reconciliation of the movement in deferred tax during the year is as follows:
 Accelerated Short term   Total Pension
 capital temporary   deferred deferred
 allowances differences Brands Hedging tax liability tax asset
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 July 2012 1,094 (43) 624 19 1,694 (3,489)
(Credited)/charged to  
 the statement of comprehensive  
 income – current year (201) (1) (89) – (291) 251
Debited/(credited) to equity – – – (5) (5) 924
Acquired in business combination 2 – 115 – 117 –
At 1 July 2013 895 (44) 650 14 1,515 (2,314)
      
(Credited)/charged to the  
 statement of comprehensive  
 income – current year (171) 34 (138) – (275) 348
Credited to equity – – – (20) (20) (1,618)
At 30 June 2014 724 (10) 512 (6) 1,220 (3,584)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non-current in the consolidated statement of financial position. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where it is probable that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets of £4.0 million (2013: £4.6 million) 
have not been recognised in respect of net capital losses of £20 million (2013: £20 million).
(e) Factors affecting the tax charge in future periods
The Finance Bill 2013, which includes the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and to  
20% from 1 April 2015, reached substantive enactment on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the group’s future current tax charge accordingly. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
63 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
10 Dividends
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Interim dividend for 2014 of 2.2p paid on 8 April 2014     784 –
Final dividend for 2013 of 2.5p paid on 31 October 2013    891 –
Interim dividend for 2013 of 2.0p paid on 9 April 2013     – 712
Final dividend for 2012 of 1.0p paid on 31 October 2012    – 357
    1,675 1,069
  
A final dividend of 2.8p per equity share, at a cash cost of £998,000, has been proposed for the year ended 30 June 2014, payable on  
5 November 2014. In accordance with IFRS accounting requirements this dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated financial 
statements.
11 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by  
the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit 
attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period,  
after allowing for the exercise of outstanding share options. The following sets out the income and share data used in the basic and diluted 
earnings per share calculations:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent    4,041 1,886
    000s 000s
Basic weighted average number of shares    35,648 35,648
Dilutive potential ordinary shares – employee share options    447 –
    36,095 35,648
Calculation of underlying earnings per share:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Profit before taxation    5,089 2,774
Add: brand amortisation    268 273
Add: IAS19 (revised) – pension scheme administration costs    452 400
Add: IAS19 (revised) – net pension scheme finance costs    448 996
Add: restructuring and acquisition costs    – 814
Add: impairment    – 625
Underlying profit before taxation    6,257 5,882
Tax at underlying group tax rate of 24.2% (2012/13: 25.7%)    (1,514) (1,512)
Underlying earnings    4,743 4,370
Basic weighted average number of shares    35,648 35,648
Underlying earnings per share    13.3p 12.3p
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
64 12 Property, plant and equipment
 Freehold  Long Short
 land and leasehold leasehold Plant &
 buildings property improvements  equipment Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 July 2012 10,748 235 430 36,145 47,558
Acquisitions through business combinations – – – 18 18
Additions 119 – 15 1,241 1,375
Disposals (17) – – (1,357) (1,374)
At 1 July 2013 10,850 235 445 36,047 47,577
Additions 124 – 19 1,090 1,233
Disposals – – (24) (895) (919)
At 30 June 2014 10,974 235 440 36,242 47,891
     
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses:     
At 1 July 2012 4,681 154 362 28,535 33,732
Depreciation charge for year 356 7 24 1,944 2,331
On disposals (17) – – (1,341) (1,358)
At 1 July 2013 5,020 161 386 29,138 34,705
Depreciation charge for year 335 20 26 1,678 2,059
On disposals – – (24) (888) (912)
At 30 June 2014 5,355 181 388 29,928 35,852
     
Net book value at 30 June 2014 5,619 54 52 6,314 12,039
Net book value at 30 June 2013 5,830 74 59 6,909 12,872
Net book value at 1 July 2012 6,067 81 68 7,610 13,826
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
65 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
13 Goodwill
     2014 2013
    £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 July    17,211 16,986
Acquisition of Rainclear Systems    – 225
At 30 June    17,211 17,211
Impairment:   
At 1 July    723 98
Impairment    – 625
At 30 June    723 723
 
Net book value at 30 June    16,488 16,488
   
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to cash generating units for impairment testing as set out below:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Building Products division:   
Roof-Pro    3,194 3,194
Timloc    2,264 2,264
Levolux    10,179 10,179
Blackdown    626 626
Rainclear Systems    225 225
At 30 June    16,488 16,488
Impairment testing of acquired goodwill
The group considers each of the operating businesses that have goodwill allocated to them, which are those units for which a separate 
cashflow is computed, to be a cash generating unit (CGU). Each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. In assessing whether 
an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of 
its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is 
deemed to be its value in use. Each of the CGUs are either operating segments as shown in note 4, or sub-sets of those operating segments.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of CGUs is based on value in use calculations. The value in use is derived from 
discounted management cash flow forecasts for the businesses, based on budgets and strategic plans covering a five year period. 
The growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond this period was 1% (2013: 1%) for each CGU.
Key assumptions included in the recoverable amount calculation include:
(i) Revenues
(ii) Gross margins
(iii) Overhead costs
Each assumption has been considered in conjunction with the local management of the relevant operating businesses who have used their  
past experience and expectations of future market and business developments in arriving at the figures used.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
66 13 Goodwill (continued)
Impairment testing of acquired goodwill (continued)
The range of pre-tax rates used to discount the cash flows of these cash generating units with on balance sheet goodwill was between  
10% and 13% (2013: between 10% and 13%). These rates were based on the group’s estimated weighted average cost of capital (W.A.C.C.), 
which was risk-adjusted for the specific circumstances of each CGU. The group’s W.A.C.C. in 2014 was similar to the rate used in 2013.  
The surplus headroom above the carrying value of goodwill at 30 June 2014 was significant in the case of Timloc, Levolux and Rainclear 
Systems, with no impairment arising from either a 2% increase in the discount rate; a growth rate of -1% used to extrapolate the cash flows; 
or a reduction of 25% in the cash flow generated in the terminal year for any CGU. 
However, headroom was more limited at Roof-Pro and Blackdown, both of which have been impacted by the recent recession and were 
recently restructured to improve business performance and financial returns.
Roof-Pro’s goodwill would be at risk of impairment based on current forecasts if the discount rate was increased by 1% or there was  
a reduction of 20% in the cash flow generated in the terminal year. The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include  
sales volumes and profit margins. Should revenue growth or margin assumptions prove to be optimistic, the cost base of the business  
could be adjusted, at least to some extent, to compensate.
Blackdown’s goodwill would be at risk of impairment based on current forecasts if the discount rate was increased by 2% or there was a 
reduction of 20% in the cash flow generated in the terminal year. The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include sales 
volumes and profit margins. Should revenue growth or margin assumptions prove to be optimistic, the cost base of the business could be 
adjusted, at least to some extent, to compensate.
Business combinations
Rainclear Systems Limited
On 30 November 2012 the group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Rainclear Systems Limited (“Rainclear”) for gross cash consideration 
of £1,171,000. This comprised an enterprise value of £719,000, plus £452,000 of cash acquired. The gross cash consideration was settled by 
an initial payment of £851,000 in 2012/13, plus deferred consideration of £320,000 in 2013/14 following achievement of earn-out targets  
set at acquisition. 
An analysis of the fair value of the Rainclear net assets acquired and the fair value of the consideration paid is set out below:
Net assets at date of acquisition:    
   Book Fair value Fair value
   value adjustments to group
   £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment    21   (3)  18 
Inventories    166   65   231 
Trade and other receivables    270   (6)  264 
Cash    452  –   452 
Trade and other payables    (216) –   (216)
Income tax payable    (76)  (10)  (86)
Property dilapidations provision   –   (100)  (100)
Deferred tax liabilities     (2)  (115)  (117)
Net assets    615   (169)  446 
Goodwill      225 
Brand acquired on acquisition      500 
      1,171 
Satisfied by:    
Initial purchase consideration settled in cash in 2012/13      851 
Deferred consideration settled in cash in 2013/14     320 
      1,171 
Less cash acquired     (452)
Enterprise value     719
The fair value of certain assets and liabilities associated with the purchase of Rainclear were provisional for the 2013 year end and have now 
been finalised with no adjustments required.
From the date of acquisition to 30 June 2013 (seven months), Rainclear reported a profit of £118,000 which, after the acquisition accounting 
adjustment relating to the reversal of the fair value adjustment that revalued inventory to fair value less costs to sell at the date of acquisition  
of £65,000, resulted in a net profit under IFRS3 conventions of £53,000.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of that year, on 1 July 2012, the revenue for the group for the 2012/13 financial year 
would have been £117,588,000 and the profit before taxation would have been £3,524,000.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
67 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
14 Other intangible assets 
   Development Computer 
  Brands expenditure software Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 July 2012  4,015 166 2,082 6,263
Acquisition of subsidiaries  500 – – 500
Additions  – – 43 43
Disposals  – – (7) (7)
At 1 July 2013  4,515 166 2,118 6,799
Additions  – – 175 175
Disposals  – – (110) (110)
At 30 June 2014  4,515 166 2,183 6,864
     
Accumulated amortisation:     
At 1 July 2012  1,414 166 1,707 3,287
Amortisation for the year  273 – 270 543
On disposals  – – (7) (7)
At 1 July 2013  1,687 166 1,970 3,823
Amortisation for the year  268 – 113 381
On disposals  – – (110) (110)
At 30 June 2014  1,955 166 1,973 4,094
Net book value at 30 June 2014  2,560 – 210 2,770
Net book value at 30 June 2013  2,828 – 148 2,976
Net book value at 1 July 2012  2,601 – 375 2,976
The Levolux brand is being amortised over a life of 20 years from May 2007.
The Rainclear brand is being amortised over a life of 5 years from December 2012.
The Blackdown brand is fully amortised.
15 Financial asset investments
     £000
Cost:
At 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014     17
The group holds 20% of the share capital of Amorim Isolamentos SA, a specialist cork insulation product manufacturer and distributor, which  
is incorporated and operates in Portugal. In the Directors’ opinion, the degree of influence exercised over Amorim Isolamentos SA is insufficient 
to justify its treatment as an associate. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
68 16 Inventories 
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Raw materials    3,489 4,084
Work in progress    2,823 3,225
Finished goods    6,211 4,822
    12,523 12,131
During the year the group’s inventory provision increased by £108,000 (2013: increased by £72,000). At 30 June 2014 the group’s inventory 
provision was £1,248,000 (2013: £1,140,000). 
17 Biological assets
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
At 1 July    163 91
Increases from purchases    40 62
Decreases from sales    (32) (35)
Gain from change in fair value less costs to sell    6 57
Decrease due to natural damage    (6) (12)
At 30 June    171 163
18 Trade and other receivables
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Trade receivables    16,798 16,596
Construction contracts    4,089 4,755
Other receivables    470 400
Prepayments and accrued income    2,336 1,778
    23,693 23,529
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing, are generally on terms of 30-90 days and are shown net of provisions for impairment. As at 30 June 
2014, trade receivables at nominal value of £204,000 (2013: £318,000) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for 
impairment of receivables were as follows:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
At 1 July    318 408
Acquisition of subsidiaries    – 6
(Credit)/charge for the year    (94) 181
Amounts written off    (20) (277)
At 30 June    204 318
Included within the total provision for impairment is £107,000 (2013: £153,000) in relation to provisions against construction contracts. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
69 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 19 Trade and other payables
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Trade payables    18,620 17,942
Other taxation and social security    1,547 1,980
Other payables    997 1,012
Construction deposits received on account    226 148
Accruals     2,545 2,941
Deferred income    1,759 2,819
Deferred consideration    – 320
    25,694 27,162
20 Construction contracts
Details of amounts due from and to customers for contract work as at 30 June are included in notes 18 and 19.
For contracts in progress at 30 June 2014, the amount of contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date,  
i.e. contract revenue recognised, was £22,812,000 (2013: £16,918,000). These contracts were on average 70% complete at 30 June 2014 
(2013: 60%). The level of payments received in advance of profit recognised at 30 June 2014 was £nil (2013: £912,000).
21 Borrowings
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Non-current liabilities:  
Non-current instalments due on bank loan    9,890 16,834
The bank loan outstanding at 30 June 2014 is part of an unsecured committed £20 million revolving credit facility currently drawn down 
against six month LIBOR. The following financial covenants apply to the facility: group interest cover, based on underlying EBITDA (i.e. before 
non-recurring items), to be at least four times; and net debt as a multiple of underlying EBITDA (i.e. before non-recurring items) to be below 
three times. Group interest cover was 17.2 times at 30 June 2014 (2013: 12.0 times) whilst the net debt multiple was 1.0 times at 30 June 
2014 (2013: 1.0 times). The group has the option to cancel and repay elements of this facility at short notice should it wish to do so.  
The facility has a final maturity date of 23 June 2016.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
70 22 Financial instruments
Financial risk management 
The group’s treasury activities are carried out in accordance with policies set by the Board. The purpose of treasury policies is to ensure that 
adequate, cost effective funding is available to the group at all times and that exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty 
risks are managed within acceptable levels. The group uses derivative financial instruments as economic hedges to manage foreign exchange 
and interest rate risks. It is the group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments is undertaken. Hedge accounting treatment has been 
applied to all of these hedging activities. All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets and liabilities 
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the group’s financial assets and liabilities:
   30 June 2014  30 June 2013
  Carrying  Fair Carrying Fair
  amount value amount value
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets:
Available-for-sale financial assets  17 17 17 17
Cash and cash equivalents  2,224 2,224 9,147 9,147
Trade receivables  16,798 16,798 16,596 16,596
Construction contracts  4,089 4,089 4,755 4,755
Other receivables  470 470 400 400
Derivative financial assets  40 40 63 63
  23,638 23,638 30,978 30,978
Financial liabilities:
Bank loans  9,890 9,890 16,834 16,834
Trade and other payables  23,841 23,841 25,034 25,034
Derivative financial liabilities  68 68 – –
  33,799 33,799 41,868 41,868
Available-for-sale financial assets have been valued at cost. Market values have been used to determine the fair value of bank borrowings.  
The fair value of interest rate cap transactions has been determined by marking those contracts to market against prevailing/forecast future 
interest rates. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market against 
prevailing forward foreign exchange rates.
Trade and other payables balances do not include other taxation and social security costs or construction deposits received on account,  
as these balances do not meet the definition of financial liabilities in IAS39.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 30 June 2014 and 2013 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments. The total interest bearing loans and borrowings value in the table below includes future unaccrued interest,  
whilst the bank overdraft and loans balance in the table above shows only the carrying amount at the year end date.
 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 
 demand 3 months months years Total
Year ended 30 June 2014 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 160 512 10,507 11,179
Trade and other payables  2,525 20,828 480 8 23,841
 2,525 20,988 992 10,515 35,020
 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 
 demand 3 months months years Total
Year ended 30 June 2013 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 163 488 17,957 18,608
Trade and other payables 6,392 16,997 1,637 8 25,034
 6,392 17,160 2,125 17,965 43,642
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
71 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 22 Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity and interest rate risk
The group manages liquidity and interest rate risk by monitoring its net debt position regularly and ensuring that banking facilities are  
in place to provide adequate headroom for anticipated future cash flows. At the year end date of 30 June the group had £23 million  
(2013: £23 million) of banking facilities. The facilities comprise a committed £20 million revolving credit facility (2013: £20 million), and 
unsecured overdraft facilities of £3 million (2013: £3 million). In addition, the group has £5 million of finance leasing facilities currently 
unutilised. The group’s £20 million committed debt facility and finance lease facility expires in June 2016. The uncommitted overdrafts  
are repayable on demand and the facility agreements are reviewed annually.
The group’s net debt at 30 June 2014 was £7.7 million (2013: £7.7 million), equivalent to 38% (2013: 39%) of committed debt facilities 
(excluding the finance lease facility), and 33% (2013: 33%) of total debt facilities (excluding the finance lease facility). 
Details of the group’s policies and procedures for managing capital are given within the Financial Review on page 15.
The maturity profile of the group’s interest bearing financial liabilities is as follows:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Floating rate interest bearing financial liabilities:  
In two to five years    9,890 16,834
The group continues to hold a three year £5.0 million interest rate cap and a five year £7.5 million interest rate cap, both of which run 
coterminously with the group’s committed banking facility expiring in 2016. These hedges have the objective of ensuring that the majority  
of the group’s net indebtedness at any time is protected against a significant increase in LIBOR interest rates above 5%. 
The group’s marginal pre-tax cost of debt finance at interest rates in place at 30 June 2014 is approximately 3.7% (2013: 4.5%).
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise a revolving credit facility that bears interest based on LIBOR and the unamortised premiums  
on two interest rate caps that have a LIBOR strike rate of 5%.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant,  
of the group’s profit before tax (through the impact of floating rate borrowings).
    Basis  Effect on profit
    Points before tax
     £000
2014  Increase    +300 (365)
 Decrease    –50 61
2013 Increase    +300 (336)
 Decrease    –50 56
The effect of the above changes to the interest rate on the group’s equity is not considered material.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
72 22 Financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk
The risk of financial loss due to a counterparty’s failure to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to transactions where the  
group provides goods and services on deferred terms. There are no concentrations of credit risk which amount to more than 10% of group 
revenues, other than the Caterpillar Group, which represented approximately 12% of group sales in the 2013/14 financial year (2012/13: 9%). 
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by its carrying value less amounts recoverable from credit insurance 
contracts, where applicable, as at the balance sheet date and is limited to the value of trade and other receivables. In addition the group may 
from time to time have credit exposures relating to bespoke inventories. The group’s cash deposits are only lodged with approved institutions 
that have strong credit ratings.
Group policies are aimed at minimising credit losses, and require that deferred terms are granted only to customers who demonstrate an 
appropriate payment history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit  
terms to ensure that the group’s exposure to bad debts is minimised. Goods may be sold on a payment with order basis to mitigate credit risk. 
Most group businesses purchase credit insurance and the group increased its overall levels of credit insurance during the prior financial year.
At 30 June, the analysis of trade and other receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
     Past due but not impaired
 Total Not past due < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days > 90 days
Year ended 30 June 2014 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 16,798 12,278 3,516 647 198 159
Construction contracts 4,089 2,695 453 311 236 394
Other receivables 470 400 36 34 – –
 21,357 15,373 4,005 992 434 553
     Past due but not impaired
 Total Not past due < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days > 90 days
Year ended 30 June 2013 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 16,596 12,389 3,258 658 55 236
Construction contracts 4,755 3,457 642 414 161 81
Other receivables 400 383 9 8 – –
 21,751 16,229 3,909 1,080 216 317
Foreign currency risk
The group has transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from sales or purchases by operating companies in currencies other  
than the companies’ operating currency (mainly Pounds Sterling). Transactional currency risks are managed by offsetting as far as possible 
purchases and sales by group companies in the same currency. A proportion of the residual risk is managed, where appropriate, through  
the use of forward currency contracts. 
None of the derivative financial instruments held at 30 June 2014 or 30 June 2013 related to derivative trading activity. Where cash flow hedge 
accounting is applied, gains or losses on the financial instrument hedges are held in equity and only recognised in the consolidated income 
statement when the losses or gains on the hedged transactions are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The following shows the amounts of foreign currency denominated receivables, payables and cash balances at 30 June stated in local currency:
   2014   2013
 Receivable Payable Cash Receivable Payable Cash
 000 000 000 000 000 000
Euros 896 (337) 218 309 (317) 176
US Dollars 1,620 (1,799) 247 844 (2,640) 958
Hong Kong Dollars 198 (18) 1,509 2,688 (16) 4,889
Chinese Yuan 1,710 (307) 978 1,684 (5,446) 877
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
73 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Foreign currency risk (continued)
The following table demonstrates the impact on the group’s profit after tax and equity when the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities at 
30 June are retranslated at exchange rates either 10% above or below the year end exchange rate:
    Effect on profit after tax and equity
 Exchange
 rate US $ Euro Hong Kong $ Chinese Yuan
 change £000 £000 £000 £000
2014 Increase +10% (195) (106) (12) (26)
 Decrease –10% 238 129 14 31
2013 Increase +10% 50 (13) (58) 28
 Decrease –10% (61) 16 71 (34)
Hedging activities
The net fair values of the group’s derivative financial instruments at 30 June designated as hedging instruments are set out below:
    2014
 
2013
    £000 £000
Interest rate cap instruments    40 61
Forward foreign exchange contracts    (68) 2
    (28) 63
At 30 June 2014 the group had two interest rate caps, one with a notional principal amount of £7.5 million and a maturity date of  
23 June 2016, another with a notional principal amount of £5.0 million and a maturity date of 18 May 2015. The cash flows associated with 
the interest rate cap hedges are expected to occur over the term of the instruments, therefore these instruments are deemed effective hedges  
in addressing the risk intended.
At 30 June 2014 the group had forward foreign exchange contracts with principal amounts equivalent to £2,599,000 (2013: £133,000).  
The forward foreign exchange contracts hedge foreign currency price risks of various currency purchases and sales across the group.  
The cash flows associated with the forward foreign exchange hedges are generally expected to occur within the next 12 months.
The derivative financial instruments carried at fair value have been valued using directly observable market inputs and therefore they  
are all considered to have been valued at Level 2, as described in the amendments to IFRS7. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
74 23 Retirement benefit obligations
(a) The group’s pension schemes
The group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes, funded by the payment of contributions into 
separately administered funds. The defined benefit schemes, which have been closed to future accrual since 2010, provide defined benefits 
based on a career average revalued earnings (CARE) basis.
Defined contribution schemes
Of the amount charged to operating profit in the statement of comprehensive income for pension contributions, £584,000 (2013: £610,000) 
was in respect of defined contribution schemes. At 30 June 2014 there was an accrual of £21,000 payable in respect of defined contribution 
schemes (2013: £74,000).
Defined benefit schemes
The two principal defined benefit schemes are The Alumasc Group Pension Scheme and The Benjamin Priest Group Pension Scheme. The rate 
of contributions to fund the deficits in the schemes is assessed by the scheme’s actuary on a triennial basis. 
Following the conclusion of the 2013 triennial actuarial review in the 2013/14 financial year, deficit reduction contributions will increase from 
£2.0 million to £2.5 million per year, with effect from 1 July 2014. Further details are given in the Financial Review on pages 14 and 15.
Disclosures in accordance with IAS19 (Revised) are set out below in respect of the defined benefit schemes.
Pension charges are determined with the advice of an independent qualified actuary on the basis of annual valuations using the projected unit 
credit method. Under the projected unit method, for closed schemes the amounts allocated to service cost in future periods will tend to be 
higher as the members of the schemes approach retirement.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the IAS19 (Revised) valuations are set out below: 
  The Alumasc The Benjamin The Alumasc The Benjamin
  Group Priest Group Group Priest Group
  Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme
  2014  2014  2013  2013 
  % % % %
Discount rate  4.3 4.3 4.8 4.8
Expected rate of deferred pension increases  2.5 2.5 2.3 2.3
Future pension increases  1.8 – 3.8 1.8 – 3.8 1.7 - 3.7 1.7 - 3.7
Retail Price Index inflation rate  3.3 3.3 3.1 3.1
Consumer Price Index inflation rate  2.5 2.5 2.3 2.3
    
  Years Years Years Years
Post retirement mortality    
Current pensioners at 65 – male  22.3 21.5 22.2 21.4
Current pensioners at 65 – female  23.7 22.9 24.6 23.7
Future pensioners at 65 in 2034 – male  24.1 23.2 23.8 22.9
Future pensioners at 65 in 2034 – female  24.8 23.9 25.2 24.3
A discount rate of 4.3% has been used in calculating the present value of liabilities of the pension schemes at 30 June 2014. A 0.1% change 
to this rate would have changed the present value of the pension fund liabilities at that date by approximately £1,440,000 before tax.
A Retail Price Index inflation rate of 3.3% and a Consumer Price Index inflation rate of 2.5% has been used in calculating the present value of 
liabilities of the pension schemes at 30 June 2014. A 0.1% change to these rates would have changed the present value of the pension fund 
liabilities at that date by approximately £680,000 before tax.
In valuing the liabilities of the pension schemes at 30 June 2014, mortality assumptions have been assumed as indicated above. If life 
expectancy had been changed to assume that all members of the schemes live for one year longer on average, the value of the reported 
liabilities at 30 June 2014 would have increased by approximately £4,020,000 before tax.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
75 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
(a) The group’s pension schemes (continued)
The combined assets and liabilities of the schemes at 30 June are:
 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Scheme assets at fair value:     
Equities 40,949 34,503 31,475 37,422 30,098
Government bonds 8,224 11,417 11,823 10,836 10,185
Corporate bonds and insured annuities 10,302 9,738 10,145 8,889 8,437
Absolute return fund 21,557 26,948 23,646 24,215 22,650
Property 4,762 672 719 1,185 1,140
Cash 779 672 2,077 2,117 3,496
 86,573 83,950 79,885 84,664 76,006
Present value of scheme liabilities (104,495) (94,012) (94,424) (87,517) (87,632)
Defined benefit pension deficit (17,922) (10,062) (14,539) (2,853) (11,626)
The whole of the defined benefit pension deficit is shown as a non-current liability. 
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the defined benefit plans, before taxation, are as follows:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
Included in net finance cost:
Net pension scheme finance costs    (448) (996)
Administration costs    (452) (400)
    (900) (1,396)
Included in other comprehensive income:  
Actuarial gain on plan assets    1,894 3,859
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations    (11,244) (262)
    (9,350) 3,597
Total recognised in the statement of comprehensive income    (10,250) 2,201
The actual return on plan assets for 2013/14 was a gain of £5,848,000 (2012/13: gain of £6,622,000).
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation before taxation are as follows:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
At 1 July    (94,012) (94,424)
Administration costs    (452) (400)
Interest cost    (4,402) (3,759)
Administrative expenses    398 284
Benefits paid    5,217 4,549
Actuarial loss    (11,244) (262)
At 30 June    (104,495) (94,012)
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
76 23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
(a) The group’s pension schemes (continued)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets before taxation are as follows:
    2013/14 2012/13
     (re-stated)
    £000 £000
At 1 July    83,950 79,885
Expected return on plan assets    3,954 2,763
Actuarial gain    1,894 3,859
Contributions by employer    2,390 2,276
Administrative expenses    (398) (284)
Defined benefit actual benefit payments    (5,217) (4,549)
At 30 June    86,573 83,950
During the year ended 30 June 2014 £1,992,000 of contributions to the scheme deficit were paid into the defined benefit plans  
(2013: £1,992,000) to eliminate the past service shortfall over ten years. Further contributions of £398,000 (2013: £284,000) were  
made by the company to fund the administration expenses and the Pension Protection Fund Levies on the schemes. 
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised since 1 July 2004 in the group statement of comprehensive income is £9,865,000 
(2012/13: losses of £515,000).
24 Provisions
  Dilapidations  Warranty Restructuring Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
  Note (i) Note (ii) Note (iii)
At 1 July 2012  476 179 330 985
Acquisition of subsidiary  100 – – 100
Charge for the year  115 190 207 512
Utilised  (100) (67) (330) (497)
At 1 July 2013  591 302 207 1,100
Charge for the year  404 29 12 445
Utilised  (54) (4) (219) (277)
At 30 June 2014  941 327 – 1,268
    
    
At 30 June 2014    
Current liabilities  – 221 – 221
Non-current liabilities  941 106 – 1,047
  941 327 – 1,268
    
At 30 June 2013    
Current liabilities  125 196 207 528
Non-current liabilities  466 106 – 572
  591 302 207 1,100
    
(i) Dilapidations
The provision is in respect of a number of the group’s leased properties where the group has obligations to make good dilapidations.
The non-current liabilities are estimated to be payable over periods from one to ten years.
(ii) Warranty
Warranty provisions are generally utilised within five years and relate to certain products supplied by the Building Products division.
(iii) Restructuring
The provision for restructuring costs related mainly to the Roofing & Walling operating segment. 
Provisions are not discounted since the impact of reflecting the time value of money on these balances is not considered to be material.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
77 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 25 Called up share capital
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:  
36,133,558 (2013: 36,133,558) ordinary shares of 12.5p each    4,517 4,517
26 Movements in equity 
Share capital and share premium
The balances classified as share capital and share premium are the proceeds of the nominal value and premium value respectively on issue  
of the company’s equity share capital net of issue costs. 
Capital reserve – own shares
The capital reserve – own shares relates to 485,171 (2013: 485,171) ordinary own shares held by the company. The market value of shares at 
30 June 2014 was £565,224 (2013: £446,357). These are held to help satisfy the exercise of awards under the company’s Long Term Incentive 
Plans. A Trust holds the shares in its name and shares are awarded to employees on request by the company. The company bears the expenses 
of the Trust.
Hedging reserve
This reserve records the post-tax portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective 
hedge.
Foreign currency reserve
This foreign currency reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries. 
27 Share based payments
The company operates two types of share based payment schemes, the main features of each scheme as detailed in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 33 to 44.
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average  average  average  average
 As at  exercise  exercise  exercise  exercise As at exercise
 1 July price  price  price  price 30 June price
 2013   (pence) Granted  (pence) Exercised  (pence) Lapsed  (pence) 2014  (pence)
LTIP (i) 982,415 n/a 289,882 n/a – n/a (360,108) n/a 912,189 n/a
ESOS (ii) 519,878 1.18 170,000 1.29 – – (136,000) 1.25 553,878 1.19
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average  average  average  average
 As at  exercise  exercise  exercise  exercise As at exercise
 1 July price  price  price  price 30 June price
 2012   (pence) Granted  (pence) Exercised  (pence) Lapsed  (pence) 2013  (pence)
LTIP (i) 880,862 n/a 391,825 n/a – n/a (290,272) n/a 982,415 n/a
ESOS (ii) 503,878 1.30 200,000 0.80 – – (184,000) 1.10 519,878 1.18
(i) Long term incentive plan.
(ii) Executive share option scheme.
ESOS
For the share options outstanding at 30 June 2014 the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.4 years (30 June 2013: 1.6 years).  
The exercise price of the options outstanding ranges between 80p and 180p. 34,000 share options are exercisable at 30 June 2014  
(30 June 2013: 60,000) with a weighted average option price of 180p (2013: 177p).
Fair value of awards 
The fair values of awards granted in the year, together with the other inputs into the option pricing model are shown below. The Black-Scholes 
and the Cox Ross Rubenstein Binomial option pricing models have been used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be 
expensed in the statement of comprehensive income.
 
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
78 27  Share based payments (continued)
Fair value of awards (continued)
   ESOS  LTIP
    Black Scholes  Black Scholes
  Black Scholes Black Scholes & Binomial & Binomial
  2014 2013 2014 2013
Share price at grant date  127p 97p 127p 97p
Exercise price  129p 80p nil nil
Expected volatility  35% 35% 35% 35%
Expected life (years)  3 3 3 3
Risk free rate  1.0% 0.5% 1.0% 0.5%
Dividend yield at date of grant  3.3% 2.3% 3.3% 2.3%
Fair value per option  25p 16p 115p 91p
    
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The risk free rate of return is based on the yield on government 
bonds due to mature on the expected maturity of the award.
The net charge recognised for share based payments in respect of employee services rendered during the year to 30 June 2014 was £34,000 
(2012/13: £nil).
28 Movement in net borrowings
   Cash and
    bank Bank Net
   overdrafts loans borrowings
   £000 £000 £000
At 1 July 2012   6,550 (19,779) (13,229)
Cash flow movements   2,590 3,000 5,590
Non-cash movements   – (55) (55)
Effect of foreign exchange rates   7 – 7
At 1 July 2013   9,147 (16,834) (7,687)
Cash flow movements   (6,907) 7,000 93
Non-cash movements   – (56) (56)
Effect of foreign exchange rates   (16) – (16)
At 30 June 2014   2,224 (9,890) (7,666)
29 Financial commitments
(i) Capital commitments
At 30 June 2014, £156,000 (2013: £211,000) of capital expenditure had been authorised and £53,000 (2013: £211,000) of capital expenditure 
had been authorised and contracted but not provided for by the group.
(ii) Operating lease commitments
The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment. The leases have varying 
terms and renewal rights.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
   Plant and   Plant and 
  Property vehicles  Property vehicles
  2013/14 2013/14 2012/13 2012/13
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year  913 564 823 497
Between one and five years  912 936 1,106 486
After five years  1,107 25 1,177 –
  2,932 1,525 3,106 983
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
79 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 29 Financial commitments (continued)
(ii) Operating lease commitments (continued)
The total future minimum sub-lease receipts under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
    Property Property
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Less than one year    32 38
Between one and five years    – –
    32 38
30 Related party disclosure 
The group’s principal subsidiaries are listed below:
   % of equity interest
  Country of  and votes held
Principal subsidiaries Principal activity incorporation   
   2014 2013
Alumasc Exterior Building Products Limited Building products England 100 100
Alumasc Limited Building products England 100 100
Levolux Limited and Levolux AT Limited Building products England 100 100
Alumasc Precision Limited Engineering products England 100 100
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at arms-length market prices. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and 
settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables.
Transactions with other related parties
Key management personnel are determined as the Directors of The Alumasc Group plc. Details of transactions with the Directors and their 
compensation are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 44.
Keith Walden is a non-executive Director of The Alumasc Group plc and also a trustee of The Alumasc Group Pension Scheme.  
Details of transactions with The Alumasc Group Pension Scheme are disclosed within note 23.
31 Contingent liabilities 
At the balance sheet date there existed contingent liabilities amounting to £1,300,000 (2013: £1,308,000) in relation to outstanding 
Guarantees and £187,000 (2013: £236,000) in relation to outstanding Performance Bonds.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
80 Company Balance Sheet
At 30 June 2014
    2014 2013
   Notes £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets   4 2,440 2,546
Investments in subsidiary undertakings   5 74,522 74,522
    76,962 77,068
Current assets
Debtors   6 1,488 563
Financial assets   7 40 61
Cash    – 13
    1,528 637
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year   8 (16,984) (11,394)
Net current liabilities    (15,456) (10,757)
Total assets less current liabilities    61,506 66,311
Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year   9 (16,690) (23,634)
Deferred tax liabilities   10 (17) (26)
Provisions for liabilities   11 (59) –
Pension liability   12 (663) (363)
Net assets    44,077 42,288
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital   13 4,517 4,517
Share premium    14 445 445
Revaluation reserve   14 2,265 2,265
Merger reserve   14 10,606 10,606
Capital reserve – own shares   14 (618) (618)
Profit and loss account reserve   14 26,862 25,073
Shareholders’ funds    44,077 42,288
G P Hooper A Magson
Director Director
2 September 2014
Company number 1767387
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
81 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
1  Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts are prepared under UK GAAP using the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of the investment in certain 
subsidiaries, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards. As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and 
loss account is not presented.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 20 of FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and has not disclosed 
information required by that standard, as the group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the group under IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 19. The financial position of the group, its cashflows and liquidity position are set out in the consolidated 
financial statements. Details of the group’s borrowing facilities are described within note 22 of the group financial statements.
The group has £23 million of banking facilities, of which £20 million is committed until June 2016. At 30 June 2014 the group’s net 
indebtedness was £7.7 million (2013: £7.7 million).
On the basis of the group’s financing facilities and current financial plans and sensitivity analyses, the Board is satisfied that the group and 
company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continue to adopt the  
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets
Freehold land is not depreciated. The cost or valuation of other tangible fixed assets is written off by equal monthly instalments over their 
expected useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings   – 25 to 50 years
Long leasehold property   –  over the period of the lease to a maximum of 50 years
Plant and equipment   – 3 to 15 years
Valuation of fixed assets
The company elected to adopt the transitional provisions of FRS15 under which previous valuations of freehold and long leasehold land and 
buildings are retained and treated as ‘cost’ for future accounting purposes. The majority of the company’s properties have been acquired as a 
result of the acquisition of related businesses; in these cases, the fair value of the freehold and long leasehold land and buildings at acquisition 
is already treated as ‘cost’ for all purposes.
Leased assets
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals 
payable are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Pensions
The company operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which is constituted as a separately administered fund and which is closed to future 
accrual. Deficit reduction contributions are agreed with the pension trustees on the basis of actuarial advice to fund this scheme. The company 
also operates a defined contribution scheme where agreed contractual contributions are paid into a separately administered fund.
In accounting for defined benefit schemes under FRS17, the pension scheme assets are measured using fair values whilst the pension scheme 
liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method and discounted using an appropriate discount rate. The company’s share of the 
pension scheme deficit is recognised net of the related deferred tax asset on the face of the balance sheet. The movement on the deficit is split 
between operating and finance charges in the profit and loss account and also in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Prior to  
The Alumasc Group Pension Scheme closure to future accrual in April 2010, the employer’s portion of the current service cost was charged to 
operating profit. The interest cost on scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets is charged or credited to other financing costs.
The actuarial gain or loss is charged directly to equity through the statement of total recognised gains and losses. This arises from the  
difference between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved, and also any changes in the assumptions and experiences  
used in the valuations.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the plans in  
the accounting period. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals  
or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
82 1  Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred taxation
Provision is made for deferred taxation in accordance with FRS19.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions 
or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the 
following exceptions:
–  provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, and gains on disposal  
of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding 
agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance 
sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the 
replacement assets are sold;
–  deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable 
taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Own shares
The Alumasc Group plc shares held by the group are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘own shares’ and are recognised at cost.  
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the 
original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or 
cancellation of equity shares.
Equity settled share based payment transactions
The fair value of long term incentive awards and share options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense at the date of 
grant, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are 
met. Awards granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings are treated as capital contributions within investments.
Investment in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, or revalued amount, less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Dividends
Under FRS21, final ordinary dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.  
Interim ordinary dividends payable are recognised in the period that they are paid. Dividends receivable are recognised when the company’s 
right to receive payments is established.
Financial assets
When financial assets are recognised initially under FRS26, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable 
transaction costs. 
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
83 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 2 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Auditors’ remuneration – audit of the financial statements of the company   16 16
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets    111 99
Hire of plant and machinery    1 1
3 Dividends
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Interim dividend for 2014 of 2.2p paid on 8 April 2014     784 –
Final dividend for 2013 of 2.5p paid on 31 October 2013    891 –
Interim dividend for 2013 of 2.0p paid on 9 April 2013     – 712
Final dividend for 2012 of 1.0p paid on 31 October 2012    – 357
    1,675 1,069
A final dividend of 2.8p per equity share, at a cash cost of £998,000, has been proposed for the year ended 30 June 2014, payable  
on 5 November 2014. In accordance with UK GAAP this dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated financial statements.
4 Tangible fixed assets
  Freehold Long
  land and leasehold Plant and
  buildings property equipment Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 July 2013  3,775 235 302 4,312
Additions  – – 5 5
Disposals   – – (8) (8)
At 30 June 2014  3,775 235 299 4,309
Depreciation:
At 1 July 2013  1,335 162 269 1,766
Charge for the year  75 19 17 111
Disposals  – – (8) (8)
At 30 June 2014  1,410 181 278 1,869
Net book value:
At 30 June 2014   2,365 54 21 2,440
At 1 July 2013  2,440 73 33 2,546
Included within freehold land and buildings is land of £1,909,000 (2013: £1,909,000) which is not depreciated.
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
84 5 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
     £000
Cost:
At 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014     75,622
Provisions:
At 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014     1,100
Net book value:
At 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014     74,522
At 30 June 2014 the principal subsidiary undertakings and related classes of business are as follows: Alumasc Exterior Building Products Limited, 
(building products), Alumasc Limited, (building products), Levolux Limited, (building products), Levolux AT Limited (building products) and 
Alumasc Precision Limited, (engineering products).
All subsidiary companies are wholly owned and owned directly by The Alumasc Group plc.
6 Debtors
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Other debtors    70 16
Prepayments and accrued income    699 547
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings     719 –
    1,488 563
7 Financial assets
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Interest rate cap instrument    40 61
The group continues to hold an interest rate cap with a notional principal amount of £5.0 million and a maturity date of 18 May 2016 and  
a £7.5 million interest rate cap with a maturity date of 23 June 2016. The interest rate caps bear a floating rate of interest up to LIBOR of  
5% and above that becomes fixed at LIBOR of 5%. The cash flows, if any, associated with the interest rate caps are expected to occur over  
the term of the instruments.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
85 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Bank overdraft    15,299 5,290
Other creditors    1,229 973
Accruals    456 461
Deferred consideration    – 320
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    – 4,350
    16,984 11,394
9 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Bank loan    9,890 16,834
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    6,800 6,800
    16,690 23,634
10 Deferred tax liabilities
     £000
At 1 July 2013     26
Deferred tax credit – current year     (9)
At 30 June 2014     17
The deferred tax liability included in the balance sheet comprises:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances    18 27
Short term timing differences    (1) (1)
    17 26
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
86 11 Provision for liabilities
     £000
At 1 July 2013     –
Charged to profit and loss account     59
At 30 June 2014     59
The company has provided £59,000 in relation to the anticipated cost of dilapidations required under the terms of the lease of the company’s 
business premises.
12 Employee benefit expense
Defined benefit schemes
The company participates in a defined benefit scheme, The Alumasc Group Pension Scheme, which has been closed to future accrual  
since 2010.
The defined benefit scheme maintained by the company is a multi-employer scheme. For the purpose of allocating the total assets and liabilities 
of the scheme between the various group companies, the Directors have used as a basis the existing participating employer or the participating 
employer at the point of the employee leaving employment.
Following the conclusion of the 2013 triennial actuarial review in the 2013/14 financial year, deficit reduction contributions will increase from 
£90,000 to £110,000 per year, with effect from 1 July 2014. Further details are given in the Financial Review on pages 14 and 15.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary in valuing the assets and liabilities of the Scheme for FRS17 purposes were:
    The Alumasc The Alumasc
    Group Group
    2014 2013
    % %
Discount rate    4.3 4.8
Expected rate of deferred pension increases    2.5 2.3
Future pension increases    1.8 – 3.8 1.7 – 3.7
Retail Price Index inflation rate    3.3 3.1
Consumer Price Index inflation rate    2.5 2.3
    Years Years
Post retirement mortality:
Current pensioners at 65 – male    22.3 22.2
Current pensioners at 65 – female    23.7 24.6
Future pensioners at 65 in 2034 – male    24.1 23.8
Future pensioners at 65 in 2034 – female    24.8 25.2
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
87 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 12 Employee benefit expense (continued)
The following information relates to the company’s element of the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
The assets in the scheme and the expected rate of return were:
 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities 1,707 1,433 1,298 1,596 1,296
Gilts 343 474 487 462 438
Bonds 429 404 418 379 363
Absolute return fund 899 1,118 975 1,033 975
Property and cash 231 56 116 141 200
Total market value of assets 3,609 3,485 3,294 3,611 3,272
Actuarial value of liability (4,438) (3,957) (3,998) (3,762) (3,756)
Pension liability before taxation (829) (472) (704) (151) (484)
Related deferred tax asset 166 109 169 39 136
Net pension liability (663) (363) (535) (112) (348)
Components of defined benefit cost for the year to 30 June were:
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Amounts charged to other finance costs:
Expected return on pension scheme assets    164 143
Interest on pension liabilities    (204) (176)
Net interest cost    (40) (33)
Analysis of amounts recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
    2013/14 2012/13
    £000 £000
Actual return less expected return on assets    98 125
Experience gains    (167) –
Changes in assumptions    (353) 41
Actuarial (loss)/gain to be recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses   (422) 166
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation before taxation are as follows:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
At 1 July    (3,957) (3,998)
Interest cost    (204) (176)
Benefits paid    243 176
Actuarial (loss)/gain    (520) 41
At 30 June    (4,438) (3,957)
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
88 12 Employee benefit expense (continued)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets before taxation are as follows:
    2014 2013
    £000 £000
At 1 July    3,485 3,294
Expected return on plan assets    164 143
Actuarial gain    98 125
Contributions by employer    105 99
Defined benefit actual benefit payments    (243) (176)
At 30 June    3,609 3,485
History of experience gains and losses:
 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets:
– Amount (£000) 98 125 (352) 185 459
– Percentage of company’s allocation of scheme assets (%) 3 4 (11) 5 14
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
– Amount (£000) (167) – 2 33 (203)
– Percentage of company’s allocation of scheme liabilities (%) (4) – 0.1 0.9 (5)
Total amount recognised in statement of  
 total recognised gains and losses
– Amount (£000) (422) 166 (650) 182 (190)
– Percentage of company’s allocation of scheme liabilities (%) (10) 4 (16) 5 (5)
Defined contribution schemes
During the year £86,000 was charged to the profit and loss account in respect of such schemes (2012/13: £82,000). At 30 June 2014 
contributions of £3,000 were outstanding in relation to the month of June 2014 (2012/13: £5,000 in relation to the month of June 2013).
13 Called up share capital
    2014  2013
    £000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
36,133,558 (2013: 36,133,558) ordinary shares of 12.5p each    4,517 4,517
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
89 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 14 Reserves
  Share   Capital Profit and
 Share premium Revaluation Merger reserve – loss account
 capital account reserve reserve own shares reserve Total
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 July 2013 4,517 445 2,265 10,606 (618) 25,073 42,288
Retained profit for the year – – – – – 3,781 3,781
Dividends – – – – – (1,675) (1,675)
Actuarial loss on defined  
 benefit pensions net of tax – – – – – (351) (351)
Share based payments – – – – – 34 34
At 30 June 2014 4,517 445 2,265 10,606 (618) 26,862 44,077
The company has not presented its own profit and loss account in accordance with the exemption allowed by Section 408 of the Companies 
Act 2006. The profit for the year after tax was £3,781,000 (2013: £3,979,000).
Capital reserve – own shares
The capital reserve – own shares relates to 485,171 (2013: 485,171) ordinary own shares held by the company. The market value of shares at 
30 June 2014 was £565,224 (2013: £446,357). These are held to help satisfy the exercise of awards under the company’s Long Term Incentive 
Plans. A Trust holds the shares in its name and shares are awarded to employees on request by the company. The company bears the expenses 
of the Trust.
Distributable reserves
In connection with the capital reorganisation in 2007, the company reached agreement with the Pension Trustees that £14.0 million of the 
profit and loss account reserve shown above would be retained as a non-distributable reserve until the group’s pension deficits reduced further 
(as determined by full actuarial valuations). Therefore the directors consider that £14.0 million of the company profit and loss account reserve 
remains non-distributable. 
In addition, cumulative actuarial losses relating to defined benefit pension Schemes of £854,000 within the profit and loss account reserve are 
non-distributable (2013: losses of £432,000).
15 Share based payments
The company operates two types of share based payment schemes, the main features of each scheme as detailed in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 33 to 44.
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted 
  average  average  average  average  average 
 As at exercise  exercise  exercise  exercise As at exercise 
 1 July price  price  price  price  30 June price 
 2013 (pence) Granted (pence) Exercised (pence) Lapsed (pence) 2014 (pence)
LTIP (i) 656,063 n/a 196,498 n/a – n/a (216,304) n/a 636,257 n/a
ESOS (ii) 79,878 1.44 20,000 1.29 – – (10,000) 1.15 89,878 1.43
  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted  Weighted 
  average  average  average  average  average 
 As at exercise  exercise  exercise  exercise As at exercise 
 1 July price  price  price  price  30 June price 
 2012 (pence) Granted (pence) Exercised (pence) Lapsed (pence) 2013 (pence)
LTIP (i) 623,631 n/a 247,595 n/a – n/a (215,163) n/a 656,063 n/a
ESOS (ii) 79,878 1.47 10,000 0.8 – – (10,000) 1.04 79,878 1.44
(i)  Long term incentive plan 
(ii)  Executive share option scheme
Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
90 15 Share based payments (continued)
ESOS
For the share options outstanding at 30 June 2014 the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.5 years (30 June 2013: 2.0 years).  
The exercise price of the options outstanding ranges between 80p and 171.2p. No share options are exercisable at 30 June 2014 (30 June 
2013: nil).
Fair value of awards 
The fair values of awards granted in the year, together with the other inputs into the option pricing model are shown below. The Black-Scholes 
and the Cox Ross Rubenstein Binomial option pricing models have been used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be 
expensed in the income statement.
   ESOS  LTIP
    Black Scholes  Black Scholes 
  Black Scholes  Black Scholes & Binomial & Binomial
  2014 2013 2014 2013
Share price at grant date  127p 97p 127p 97p
Exercise price  129p 80p nil nil
Expected volatility  35% 35% 35% 35%
Expected life (years)  3 3 3 3
Risk free rate  1.0% 0.5% 1.0% 0.5%
Dividend yield at date of grant  3.3% 2.3% 3.3% 2.3%
Fair value per option  25p 16p 115p 91p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The risk free rate of return is based on the yield on government 
bonds due to mature on the expected maturity date of the award.
The net charge recognised for share based payments in respect of employee services rendered during the year to 30 June 2014 is £34,000 
(2012/13: £nil).
16 Financial commitments
The company had no financial commitments at the year end (2013: £nil).
17 Related party disclosures
The company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3c of FRS8 not to disclose transactions with other group companies. 
There were no other related party transactions during the period (2013: nil). 
18 Contingent liabilities
The company is party to, together with subsidiary undertakings, cross guarantee banking arrangements in favour of the group’s  
relationship banks. At the year end, subsidiary undertakings had utilised £4,167,000 (2013: £2,900,000) of the overdraft facilities  
guaranteed by the company.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
91 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100  2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Income Statement Summary
Revenue (continuing operations)
Building products 83,486 88,289 74,917 71,219 64,528
Engineering products 31,044 29,416 36,804 36,744 23,954
Less intercompany (1,128) (936) (1,102) (1,158) (994)
Total revenue (continuing operations) 113,402 116,769 110,619 106,805 87,488
Underlying operating profit (continuing operations)     
Building products 8,308 8,379 4,384 3,914 5,351
Engineering products (198) (461) (770) 2,978 991
Unallocated costs (1,332) (1,269) (1,036) (1,213) (967)
Underlying operating profit (continuing operations) 6,778 6,649 2,578 5,679 5,375
Net interest cost on borrowings (521) (767) (706) (662) (676)
Underlying profit before tax (continuing operations) 6,257 5,882 1,872 5,017 4,699
Brand amortisation (268) (273) (299) (320) (315)
IAS 19 (revised) – pension scheme  
 administration costs (note a) (452) (400) – – –
Net pension interest (448) (996) (317) (745) (908)
Restructuring costs – (814) (866) (241) –
Impairment (charge)/reversal – (625) – 1,220 –
Profit on disposal of property – – – 759 – 
Refinancing costs – – – (307) –
Profit before tax (continuing operations) 5,089 2,774 390 5,383 3,476
Profit/(loss) before tax (discontinued operations) – – – (269) (98)
Profit before taxation 5,089 2,774 390 5,114 3,378
Taxation (1,048) (888) 23 (1,469) (1,138)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,041 1,886 413 3,645 2,240
Non-controlling interest – – – – (6)
Profit for the financial year attributable  
 to equity holders of the parent 4,041 1,886 413 3,645 2,234
Return on sales (underlying)
Building products 10.0% 9.5% 5.9% 5.5% 8.3%
Engineering products (0.6%) (1.6%) (2.1%) 8.1% 4.1%
Group 6.0% 5.7% 2.3% 5.3% 6.1%
Underlying tax rate 24.2% 25.7% 30.6% 29.9% 30.1%
 
Underlying earnings per share  
 (continuing operations) (pence)  13.3 12.3 3.6 9.8 9.1
Notes
a)  Pension interest and scheme administration costs have been re-stated under IAS 19 (revised) for 2012/13 only, as the information  
 is not available for prior years
Financial Statements 
Five Year Summary
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
92  2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance Sheet Summary
Shareholders’ funds 17,042 22,443 18,928 31,965 27,743
Non-controlling interests – – – – 33
Net debt 7,666 7,687 13,229 10,731 9,317
Pension deficit (net of associated deferred tax asset) 14,338 7,748 11,050 2,111 8,371
Capital Invested 39,046 37,878 43,207 44,807 45,464
Return on capital invested (post-tax) (note b) 13.4% 12.2% 4.1% 8.8% 7.9%
Return on shareholders’ funds (post-tax) (note c) 24.0% 21.1% 5.1% 11.8% 11.2%
Gearing (note d) 45.0% 34.3% 70.0% 33.6% 33.5%
Group interest cover (note e) 17.2 12.0 7.6 12.3 12.4
Net debt/underlying EBITDA  (note f) 1.0  1.0 2.5 1.3 1.1
Other Statistics
Earnings per share (on continuing operations) (pence) 11.3 5.3 1.2 10.7 6.4
Total earnings per share (pence) 11.3 5.3 1.2 10.2 6.2
Dividends per share (pence) 5.0 4.5 2.0 10.0 10.0
Order Book at 30 June (continuing operations)
Building products 19,868 21,385 28,608 13,624 15,920
Engineering products 16,956 22,636 24,448 30,481 18,078
Group 36,824 44,021 53,056 44,105 33,998
Notes
b) Underlying operating profit after tax (calculated using the underlying tax rate) as a percentage of average capital invested
c) Underlying profit after tax (calculated using the underlying tax rate) as a percentage of average shareholders funds
d) Net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests
e) EBITDA divided by net interest cost on borrowings
f) Net debt plus contingent liabilities divided by underlying EBITDA
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
93 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Alumasc Group plc (the “Company”) will be held at Founder’s Hall,  
No.1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT at 10.30 am on Thursday 30 October 2014 for the following purposes:
Ordinary business
1 To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors and the accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014
2 To receive the report of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 30 June 2014
3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy
4 To declare a final dividend of 2.8p per share
5 To elect David Armfield as a Director
6 To re-elect Jon Pither as a Director
123
7 To re-elect Philip Gwyn as a Director
123
8 To re-elect Richard Saville as a Director
123
9 To confirm the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration
1
Member of Nomination Committee
2
Member of Remuneration Committee
3
Member of Audit Committee
Special business
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions. Resolutions 10 and 11 shall be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions  
and Resolutions 12 and 13, shall be proposed as Special Resolutions.
10 Adoption of The Alumasc 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme 
That the rules of the Alumasc 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the 
meeting for purposes of identification (the “Option Scheme”), the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix, be and are hereby 
approved and the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to adopt the Option Scheme and do all acts necessary and things which 
they may, in their absolute discretion, consider necessary or expedient to give effect to the Option Scheme.
A summary of the Alumasc 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme is set out in the Appendix to this Notice.
11 Renewal of Directors’ authorities to allot shares
 That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
exercise all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares  
in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,505,564 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the company, save that the Directors shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which 
would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted pursuant to any such offers or agreements after this authority had expired; 
and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the Directors are hereby revoked.
12 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
 That the Directors be and hereby they are empowered pursuant to Section 571 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined  
in Section 560(1) of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above as if Section 561(1) of that Act did not apply  
to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to:
(i) the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on 
the register of members at such dates as the Directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of 
the ordinary shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on such record 
dates subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements 
or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange  
or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or any other matter whatever; and
(ii) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph (i) above) to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £225,835; and shall expire on the date of expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company shall 
be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 
such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred 
hereby had not expired. 
In respect of an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 560(2b) of the Act, the words “pursuant to the authority conferred  
in Resolution 11 above” shall be deemed to be omitted from the power conferred by this Resolution.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
94 13 Company’s authority to purchase its own shares
 That the company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 693(4) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares of 12.5p each in the Company provided that;
(i) the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 5,383,900 which represents 14.9% of the issued share capital 
of the company on 1 September 2014;
(ii) the minimum price (exclusive of taxes and expenses) which may be paid for such ordinary shares is 12.5p per share;
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of taxes and expenses) which may be paid for such ordinary shares is an amount equal to 105% of the average 
of the middle market quotations for ordinary shares (derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange Plc) for the five dealing 
days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased;
(iv) the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 29 October 2015, or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the 
company except that the expiry of such authority shall not exclude any purchase of ordinary shares made pursuant to a contract concluded 
before the authority expired and which would or might be executed wholly or partly after its expiration;
(v) this authority supersedes the company’s authority to make market purchases granted by Special Resolution passed on 24 October 2013.
By order of the Board
A Magson  Registered Office
Company Secretary  Burton Latimer
   Kettering
2 September 2014  Northamptonshire
   NN15 5JP
   Registered No
   1767387
Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting
1. Holders of ordinary shares, or their duly appointed representatives, are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM. Shareholders are entitled to 
appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting. A shareholder can appoint  
the Chairman of the meeting or anyone else to be his/her proxy at the meeting. A proxy need not be a shareholder. More than one proxy  
can be appointed in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different ordinary share or 
shares held by that shareholder. To appoint more than one proxy, the Proxy Form should be photocopied and completed for each proxy holder.  
The proxy holder’s name should be written on the Proxy Form together with the number of shares in relation to which the proxy is authorised 
to act. The box on the Proxy Form must also be ticked to indicate that the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given. All Proxy 
Forms must be signed and, to be effective, must be lodged with the company’s registrar Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, or in the case of an adjournment 48 hours 
before the adjourned time.
2. The return of a completed Proxy Form or other such instrument or will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person  
if he/she wishes to do so.
3. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information rights (a Nominated 
Person) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to 
have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise 
it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
4. Only shareholders whose names appear on the register of members of the company as at 48 hours before the time of the meeting shall be 
entitled to attend the AGM either in person or by proxy and the number of ordinary shares then registered in their respective names shall 
determine the number of votes such persons are entitled to cast on a poll at the AGM.
5. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 does not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights 
described in that note can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
6. As at 1 September 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, the company’s issued share capital consists 
of 36,133,558 ordinary shares with voting rights. 
7. Copies of the Directors’ service contracts with the company will be available to members for inspection at the registered office during business 
hours on any week day (public holidays excepted) and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for fifteen minutes prior  
to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
95 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 Explanatory notes to Resolutions 3, 5, 6, 7,8,11,12 and 13 to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting
(1) Resolution 3 – Approval of Directors Remuneration Policy
If the Directors’ Remuneration Policy is approved, then all payments by the Company to its Directors and any former Directors must be made in 
accordance with that Policy (or approved by a separate shareholder resolution). If approved, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be valid for  
up to 3 financial years without shareholder approval. Should the Company wish to change any aspect of the Policy in that 3 year period, it will 
need to obtain shareholder approval before it can implement the proposed changes.
(2) Resolution 5 – Election of David Armfield
Following his appointment to the Board on the 1 October 2014 David Armfield in accordance with the articles offers himself for election as  
a Director. Mr Armfield’s biography is provided on page 21. 
(3) Resolution 6, 7 and 8 – Re-election of Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville
Your Board recommends that Jon Pither, Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville be re-elected as Directors of the company. As they have served on the 
Board for longer than nine years, and in order to comply with the best practice provisions of The Code, they offer themselves for re-election.
The board has concluded that the retiring four Directors are effective, committed to their role, and subject to shareholder approval, 
should continue in office. The biographical details of each Director is set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report 2014. 
(4) Resolution 11 – Renewal of Directors’ authority to allot shares
By virtue of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors require the authority of shareholders of the company to allot shares or  
other relevant securities of the company, Resolution 11 authorises the Directors to make allotments of up to an additional 12,044,519 shares 
(being approximately one third of the issued share capital of the company as at 1 September 2014). This authority will lapse at the conclusion 
of the next Annual General Meeting, unless renewed earlier. The Directors have no present intention to exercise the authority proposed to be 
conferred by Resolution 11.
(5) Resolution 12 – Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
By virtue of Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 any issue by the company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing 
shareholders on a proportional basis requires the consent of the shareholders of the company unless the company has obtained the authority 
of the shareholders under Section 571 of the Act. The purpose of Resolution 12 is to authorise the Directors to allot shares by way of rights or 
pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro rata when they consider it expedient to do so and allows them to issue for cash up to 
1,806,677 shares other than on a pre-emptive basis (representing 5% of the issued share capital of the company as at 1 September 2014.
(6) Resolution 13 – Company’s authority to purchase its own shares
The Directors consider it desirable that the company should have the authority to make market purchases of its own shares. The purpose of 
Resolution 13 is to authorise the Directors generally to purchase up to 5,383,900 ordinary shares in the market (being 14.9% of the issued share 
capital of the company as at 1 September 2014). The Directors will only exercise the authority granted by Resolution 13 (if passed) if to do so 
would result in an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
96 The Alumasc 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme
A summary of the principal terms of the Alumasc 2014 Executive Share Option Scheme (the “Option Scheme”), see Resolution 10,  
is outlined below. 
The Option Scheme
1 Eligibility
Any employee of The Alumasc Group plc (“The Company”) or any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Option Scheme at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee. Although the Option Scheme will permit the grant of options to executive directors of the Company,  
the Remuneration Committee does not currently intend to grant options to those directors and any future grant of options to such an executive 
director will be consistent with the Company’s shareholder approved policy on directors’ remuneration. 
2 Form of awards
Awards under the Option Scheme will be granted in the form of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, with a per share exercise  
price equal to the market value of a share at the date of grant. The Option Scheme includes an appendix under which it is proposed that options 
which satisfy the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (“Qualifying Options”) can be granted, up to  
the limit permitted by that legislation. Qualifying Options offer beneficial tax treatment to the participant and the member of the group employing 
the participant. 
Options may be granted over newly issued Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market. Options are not transferable (other than  
on death). No payment will be required for the grant of an option. Options will not form part of pensionable earnings. 
3  Performance conditions
Options will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition which will determine the proportion (if any) of the option which will vest 
following the end of a performance period. Unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, a performance period shall be at least three 
years long. If options are granted to executive directors of the Company in the future, the applicable performance conditions would be consistent 
with the Company’s shareholder approved policy on directors’ remuneration. 
4  Individual limits
Options will not be granted to a participant under the Option Scheme over shares with a market value in excess of 100 per cent of salary in respect 
of any financial year. If options are granted to executive directors of the Company in the future, the quantum of any grant would be consistent with 
the Company’s shareholder approved policy on directors’ remuneration. 
5 Grant of options
Options may only be granted within the six week period following approval of the Option Scheme by shareholders, announcement of the Company’s 
results for any period, in relation to any person the day on which that person first joins the group, any day on which changes to legislation affecting 
employee share schemes are proposed or made or on any day on which the Remuneration Committee determines that exceptional circumstances 
exist. However, if the Company is restricted from granting options during any such period, options may be granted in the period of six weeks 
following the relevant restriction being lifted. 
6 Overall limits
The Option Scheme is subject to the following overall limits. 
(a) In any 10 year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Option Scheme and under any other employee share plan adopted 
by the Company may not exceed 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
(b) In any 10 year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Option Scheme and under any other discretionary share plan 
adopted by the Company, other than Shares subject to an award the vesting of which is dependent on the achievement of a particularly 
stretching performance condition, may not exceed 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time. 
Treasury Shares will be treated as newly issued for the purpose of these limits until such time as guidelines published by institutional investor 
representative bodies determine otherwise. Existing Shares, other than treasury Shares, which are transferred to an employee pursuant to an award 
or to which an award relates (such as Shares bought in the market by the Company’s employee benefit trust) shall not count towards these limits. 
Appendix
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
97 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 7 Reduction for malus 
The Remuneration Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine at any time prior to the vesting of an option (other than a Qualifying Option) to: 
(a) reduce the number of shares to which an option relates;
(b) cancel an option; or
(c) impose further conditions on an option;
in circumstances in which the Remuneration Committee considers such action is appropriate. 
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to:
(a) a material misstatement of the Company’s audited financial results; or
(b) serious reputational damage to the Company, any group member or a relevant business unit as a result of the participant’s misconduct  
or otherwise. 
In accordance with HMRC practice, malus shall not apply to Qualifying Options. 
8 Vesting and exercise
Options that are subject to a performance condition will normally vest at the end of any performance period (or if later on the third anniversary  
of the grant date) and then only to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied. Options will then normally be exercisable until  
the tenth anniversary of the grant date on payment of the aggregate exercise price.
At any time before or after the point at which an option (other than a Qualifying Option) has been exercised, but the underlying shares have yet  
to be issued or transferred to the participant, the Remuneration Committee may decide:
(a) to transfer a number of Shares to the participant equal in value to the difference between the aggregate value of the Shares over which the 
option is exercised and the aggregate exercise price of the option that would have been payable for those Shares; or
(b) to pay a participant a cash amount equal in value to the difference between the aggregate value of the Shares over which the option  
is exercised and the aggregate exercise price that would have been payable for those Shares. 
9 Cessation of employment
If a participant dies, any unvested option he holds will, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, vest as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the participant’s death to the extent that the Remuneration Committee determines, taking into account the satisfaction of any 
performance condition at that time and, if the Remuneration Committee so determines, the period of time that has elapsed since the option was 
granted until the date of death. Where options vest in these circumstances, they will normally be exercisable for 12 months after vesting. 
If a participant ceases to be employed by the group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, sale of the entity that employs him out 
of the group, in the case of a Qualifying Option retirement, or for any other reason at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion (except where a 
participant is summarily dismissed), any unvested options he holds which are not Qualifying Options will usually continue until the normal vesting 
date unless the Remuneration Committee determines that the option will vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date on which the 
participant ceases to be employed by the group. To reflect HMRC practice, Qualifying Options will vest as soon as reasonably practicable following 
the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the group. 
The Remuneration Committee will decide the extent to which an unvested option vests in these circumstances, taking into account the extent to 
which any performance condition is satisfied at the end of any performance period or, as appropriate, at the date on which the participant ceases to 
be employed by the group. Unless the Remuneration Committee in its discretion determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since the 
option was granted until the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the group will also be taken into account. Where options vest 
in these circumstances, they will normally be exercisable for six months after vesting.
If a participant ceases employment with the group in any other circumstances, any option he holds shall lapse on the date on which the participant 
ceases employment. 
Appendix
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
98 10 Corporate events
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which options will vest taking into 
account the extent to which any performance condition has been satisfied, and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the 
period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the relevant event. Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may permit or, in the 
case of an internal reorganisation, require options to be exchanged for equivalent options which relate to shares in another company. 
If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Company, or a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion 
of the Remuneration Committee may affect the current or future value of Shares, the Remuneration Committee may determine that options will 
vest taking into account the satisfaction of any relevant performance condition and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, 
pro-rating to reflect the period from the grant date to the date of the relevant event. The Remuneration Committee will determine in these 
circumstances the length of time during which options can then be exercised.
11 Adjustments
In the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event, which may, in the 
Remuneration Committee’s opinion, affect the current or future value of Shares, the number of Shares subject to an option and/or any performance 
condition attached to options and/or the exercise price applying to an option under the Option Scheme, may be adjusted, provided that any 
adjustment to a Qualifying Option under the Option Scheme may only be made in accordance with the requirements of the applicable tax legislation. 
12 Amendment and termination
The Remuneration Committee may amend the Option Scheme at any time, provided that prior approval of the Company’s shareholders in a general 
meeting will be required for amendments to the advantage of eligible employees or participants relating to eligibility, limits, the basis for determining 
a participant’s entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash comprised in an option and the impact of any variation of capital. 
However, any minor amendment to benefit the administration of the Option Scheme, to take account of legislative changes, or to obtain or maintain 
favourable tax treatment, exchange control or regulatory treatment may be made by the Remuneration Committee without shareholder approval.
No amendment may be made to the material disadvantage of participants in the Option Scheme unless consent is sought from the affected 
participants and given by a majority of them. 
The Option Scheme will usually terminate on the tenth anniversary of its approval by shareholders but the rights of existing participants will not be 
affected by any termination. 
13 Documents available for inspection
The rules of the Option Scheme will be available for inspection at the office of Deloitte LLP (Company Secretarial Department), 2 New Street Square, 
London EC4A 3BZ during normal business hours on any weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded) until the close of the Annual 
General Meeting, and will also be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
99 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100 The Alumasc Group –
Major Product Groups and Operating Locations
Building Products
Energy Management
Solar shading & screening
Levolux Limited
Forward Drive
Harrow
Middlesex HA3 8NT
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8863 9111
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8863 8760
Email: info@levolux.com
Web: www.levolux.com
Levolux AT Limited
24 Eastville Close
Eastern Avenue
Gloucester GL4 3SJ
Tel: +44 (0) 1452 500007
Fax: +44 (0) 1452 527496
Email: info@levolux.com
Web: www.levolux.com
Waterproofing systems
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
White House Works
Bold Road
Sutton
St Helens
Merseyside WA9 4JG
Tel: +44 (0) 1744 648400
Fax: +44 (0) 1744 648401
Email: info@alumasc-exteriors.co.uk
Web: www.alumascwaterproofing.co.uk
Green roofing
Blackdown Horticultural Consultants 
Street Ash Nursery
Combe St. Nicholas
Chard
Somerset TA20 3HZ
Tel: +44 (0) 1460 234582
Fax: +44 (0) 845 0760267
Email: enquiries@blackdown.co.uk
Web: www.blackdown.co.uk
Roofing services support systems
Roof-Pro Systems
Polwell Lane
Burton Latimer
Northamptonshire NN15 5PS
Tel: +44 (0) 1536 383865
Fax: +44 (0) 1536 726859
Email: info@roof-pro.co.uk
Web: www.roof-pro.co.uk
Insulated render systems
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
White House Works
Bold Road
Sutton
St Helens
Merseyside WA9 4JG
Tel: +44 (0) 1744 648400
Fax: +44 (0) 1744 648401
Email: info@alumasc-exteriors.co.uk
Web: www.alumascfacades.co.uk
Water Management
Engineered access covers
Elkington Gatic
Hammond House
Holmestone Road
Poulton Close
Dover
Kent CT17 0UF
Tel: +44 (0) 1304 203545
Fax: +44 (0) 1304 215001
Email: info@gatic.com
Web: www.gatic.com
Gatic Slotdrain
Elkington Gatic
Hammond House
Holmestone Road
Poulton Close
Dover
Kent CT17 0UF
Tel: +44 (0) 1304 203545
Fax: +44 (0) 1304 215001
Email: info@gatic.com
Web: www.slotdrain.com
Metal rainwater systems
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
White House Works
Bold Road
Sutton
St Helens
Merseyside WA9 4JG
Tel: +44 (0) 1744 648400
Fax: +44 (0) 1744 648401
Email: info@alumasc-exteriors.co.uk
Web: www.alumascrainwater.co.uk
Rainclear systems
Unit 34A
Techno Trading Estate
Ganton Way
Swindon SN2 8ES
Tel: +44 (0) 844 4142266
Fax: +44 (0) 844 4142277
Email: sales@rainclear.co.uk
Web: www.rainclear.co.uk
Roof, shower and floor drainage systems
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
White House Works
Bold Road
Sutton
St Helens
Merseyside WA9 4JG
Tel: +44 (0) 1744 648400
Fax: +44 (0) 1744 648401
Email: info@alumasc-exteriors.co.uk
Web: www.alumascdrainage.co.uk
Ventilation products,  
access panels/doors cavity closers
Timloc Building Products
Rawcliffe Road
Goole
East Yorkshire DN14 6UQ
Tel: +44 (0) 1405 765567
Fax: +44 (0) 1405 720479
Email: sales@timloc.co.uk
Web: www.timloc.co.uk
Interior casing systems
Pendock
Alumasc Interior Building Products
Halesfield 19
Telford
Shropshire TF7 4QT
Tel: +44 (0) 1952 580590
Fax: +44 (0) 1952 587805
Email: sales@pendock.co.uk
Web: www.pendock.co.uk
Building and access products
Scaffold & Construction Products
Unit 1
Station Court
Girton Road
Cannock
Staffordshire WS11 0EJ
Tel: +44 (0) 1543 467800
Fax: +44 (0) 1543 467993
Email: acp@scpburton.co.uk
Web: www.scp-props.co.uk
Engineering Products
Alumasc Precision
Alumasc Precision Components
Burton Latimer
Kettering
Northants NN15 5JP
Tel: +44 (0) 1536 383849
Fax: +44 (0) 1536 723835
Email: info@alumascprecision.co.uk
Web: www.alumasc-precision.co.uk
Dyson Diecasting
Second Avenue
Bletchley
Milton Keynes MK1 1EA
Tel: +44 (0) 1908 279200
Fax: +44 (0) 1908 279219
Email: info@alumascprecision.co.uk
Web: www.dyson-diecasting.co.uk
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
100 The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2014
101 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 44
 Financial Statements 45 - 100
Printed on Regency Silk. This paper comes from sustainable 
forests and is fully recyclable and biodegradable. The 
paper mill and the printer are accredited with ISO 14001 
environmental management standard. The Printer is also 
carbon neutral.
Design & production
www.carrkamasa.co.uk The Alumasc Group plc
Burton Latimer, Kettering
Northamptonshire NN15 5JP
Tel: +44(0) 1536 383844
Fax: +44(0) 1536 725069
info@alumasc.co.uk
www.alumasc.co.uk
