 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
What does it take to
deliver sustainable 
shareholder value? Business Overview
A well balanced business
Imperial Tobacco is the world’s fourth largest international tobacco
company, which manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive
range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Our Group performance
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (pence)
136.7p
+12% on 2006
Dividend Per Share (pence)
69.5p          
+12% on 2006
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations (million)
£1,475m
+9% on 2006
Our key international brands
Net revenue by region (%)
United Kingdom 38.3%
Germany 16.1%
Rest of Western Europe 22.1%
United States 3.5%
Rest of the World 20.0%
United Kingdom 26.7%
Germany 16.0%
Rest of Western Europe 19.3%
United States 3.6%
Rest of the World 34.4%
Adjusted profit from
operations by region (%)
Manufacturing location
Our manufacturing assets
22
Cigarette factories
6
Other tobacco 
product factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
Our manufacturing sites
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• Overview Highlights Contribution to Group
United Kingdom
In the UK we continue to build on our
market leadership position in cigarettes,
fine cut tobacco and rolling papers. 
The UK is a mature market which has
experienced moderate market declines
in recent years.
> Overall cigarette market share up
at 46.4 per cent 
> Lambert & Butler, UK’s best selling
cigarette brand up at 16.6 per cent
> UK’s number two brand, Richmond, 
up at 15.7 per cent 
Germany
We are growing our cigarette share in
Germany and have a leading position 
in fine cut tobacco. Market dynamics in
Germany have been driven by consumer
migration from the discontinued make
your own Singles product.
> Our cigarette market share grew 
to 21.3 per cent
> JPS market share up at 6.4 per cent 
> Davidoff in the premium sector
remained broadly stable at 1.0 per cent
of the cigarette market
Rest of Western Europe
We continue to build on our position in
this region which comprises a number 
of highly competitive mature markets
that are becoming more regulated.
> Our cigarette market share increased 
in a number of countries
> Davidoff and West have grown volumes
reinforcing their strong regional positions
> In fine cut tobacco, the initiatives we
have undertaken have started to deliver
some market share improvements
Rest of the World
There are considerable opportunities 
to expand our business and grow our
brands and profits in our Rest of the
World region. This region is a key area 
of future investment for the Group.
> The Rest of the World region is diverse
with over 100 countries, with different
dynamics, opportunities and challenges
> We have grown our cigarette volumes,
and delivered market share improvements
in many markets in the region
United States
We made a significant move into the US
tobacco market with the acquisition of
Commonwealth Brands in April 2007.
We believe we are well positioned to
develop our business in the US with 
our versatile, multi-product portfolio 
and an enhanced platform front which 
to launch our brands and products.
> Returns on investment in the first six
months exceeded our weighted
average cost of capital
> Our cigarette market share was 3.7 per
cent of the total cigarette market and
13.4 per cent of the discount sector
> Existing rolling papers and tubes
volumes up by 13 per cent and 
8 per cent respectively
£876m
(2006: £835m)
Net revenue
£564m
(2006: £506m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£524m
(2006: £575m)
Net revenue
£238m
(2006: £270m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£635m
(2006: £637m)
Net revenue
£326m
(2006: £324m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£117m
(2006: £14m)
Net revenue
£52m
(2006: £4m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£1,128m
(2006: £1,101m)
Net revenue 
£295m
(2006: £252m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations We are delivering sustainable
shareholder value through…
A well balanced
business
Financial
strength
Clear direction
A responsible
approach
A strategy for
growth
International
expansion
The right team
For an overview 
of our business 
today see overleaf
p14
p28
p20
p32
p3 p6
Cost efficiency
p26
Strong brands
p16 www.imperial-tobacco.com 1
Contents
2 Financial Highlights
3 Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report: Business Review
6 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
7 Proposed Acquisition of Altadis
8 World Tobacco Market Context
9 Understanding Our Operating Environment
11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally
12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
13 Measuring Our Performance
14 Financial Review
16 Operating Review
18 United Kingdom
19 Germany
22 Rest of Western Europe
23 United States
24 Rest of the World
25 Manufacturing
28 Corporate Responsibility
Directors’ Report: Governance
32 Board of Directors and Chief Executive’s Committee
34 Report of the Directors
37 Corporate Governance Report
48 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
67 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
68 Consolidated Income Statement
69 Consolidated Balance Sheet
70 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
71 Accounting Policies
76 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
78 Notes to the Financial Statements
111 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
112 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
113 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
Supple       mentary Information
115 Shareholder Information
117 Principal Subsidiaries
119 Index
120 Glossary
Information key
Cross reference within report
for more information
p35
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Company and the Group as a whole.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-
looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these
forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast. 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Highlights
2007 % change 2006
Cigarette volumes (bn cigarettes) 200.3 +7% 186.9
Fine cut tobacco volumes (tonnes) 24,450 –4% 25,500
(In £’s million) 2007 % change 2006
Revenue 12,344 +6% 11,676
Net revenue 3,280 +4% 3,162
Profit from operations 1,418 +8% 1,311
Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 +9% 1,356
Profit before tax 1,237 +6% 1,168
(In pence) 2007 % change 2006
Basic earnings per share 134.3 +10% 122.2
Adjusted earnings per share 136.7 +12% 122.2
Diluted earnings per share 133.7 +10% 121.6
Dividend per share 69.5 +12% 62.0
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a better comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, as outlined in our accounting policy note, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, taxation and earnings per share 
exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired trademarks, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial
instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and related taxation effects. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations are included within
note 1 to the ﬁnancial statements, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in
note 8. The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁned terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures
reported by other companies. www.imperial-tobacco.com 3
Chairman’s Statement
Clear direction
    In this, my ﬁrst year as Chairman, I am delighted to be reporting 
another record set of results. 
have been efﬁciently and effectively
integrated and delivered signiﬁcant value 
for our shareholders. 
The acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands was completed in April 2007,
offering us considerable opportunities to
expand into this highly proﬁtable market. In
July, we announced a proposed cash offer
for Altadis of €50 per share, and are
delighted that our shareholders voted
overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed
acquisition at our EGM in August 2007.
We expect the transaction to complete 
in January 2008.
Our geographic proﬁle includes regions
offering important opportunities for long 
term sustainable growth combined with 
core market strengths. We are focused on
expanding our current geographic proﬁle to
deliver further proﬁtable volume growth, with
expansion during the year in the Americas,
Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
We have grown cigarette market shares
within every region and this performance is
complemented by our world leadership in
ﬁne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes. 
We have continued to focus on cost
control throughout every aspect of our
business, with further cost savings achieved
in our manufacturing base. We have effectively
used our cash by investing appropriately in
acquisitions, in market developments
particularly in our Rest of the World and
Rest of Western Europe regions and in our
share buyback programme.
Corporate Governance
Shareholders, customers, suppliers,
employees and society in general expect
Imperial Tobacco to act responsibly and to
high standards at all times. We are committed
to maintaining high standards of Corporate
Governance. We have in place a set of
governance structures and practices designed
to ensure that the Group is run responsibly
in the best interests of its shareholders.
Further information is available on pages 
37 to 47 of this report.
Iain Napier
Chairman
We remain committed to creating value for
our shareholders and, as a result of our
continued and consistent focus on this
strategy, we have delivered another record
operational and ﬁnancial performance. 
Earnings and Dividends
This year has been deﬁned by growth, 
both acquisition-led and through organic
developments in new and existing markets.
We have continued our focus on costs and
the effective management of the cash we
generate. This successful combination has
delivered an increase in adjusted earnings
per share of 12 per cent to 136.7 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 134.3 pence
(2006: 122.2 pence).
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend
of 48.5 pence per share, bringing the total
dividend for the year to 69.5 pence, up 12
per cent on 2006 (2006: 62.0 pence).
1
A Year of Progress
Successful acquisitions have been a
hallmark of Imperial Tobacco over the last
decade. Since our listing on the London
Stock Exchange, we have invested £6.2
billion in acquisitions, in accordance with
our strategic and ﬁnancial criteria. These
1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders on the register
at the close of business on 18 January 2008. 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chairman’s Statement continued
Derek Bonham
We were deeply saddened by the death 
of Derek Bonham, our former Chairman, 
in September 2007. Derek worked tirelessly
as our Chairman, guiding Imperial Tobacco
through its demerger from Hanson, its
listing as an independent company and
through its subsequent transformation 
into the world’s fourth largest international
tobacco company.
Board Changes
We regularly review the composition of 
the Board to ensure it continues to provide
the most effective leadership for the Group’s
development as well as planned and 
orderly succession.
Reﬂecting our ongoing focus on the
strategic and proﬁtable development of 
the business, I was delighted to welcome
Alison Cooper as Corporate Development
Director in July 2007. T o ensure the continued
appropriate balance of the Board, Michael
Herlihy and Mark Williamson were appointed
as Non-Executive Directors, also in July 2007.
We reluctantly accepted the resignation
of Frank Rogerson as Corporate Affairs
Director in July 2007 for personal and
private reasons. David Cresswell,
Manufacturing Director, will retire at the 
end of December 2007. I would like to
express my sincere thanks to them both 
for their outstanding contribution to the
success of the Company during their 
long service.
Colin Day resigned as a Non-Executive
Director as a consequence of his overall
business commitments in February 2007
and, as previously announced, Vice
Chairman Anthony Alexander will retire 
from the Board at the Annual General
Meeting in January 2008.
Finally I thank all our employees for their
contribution to these strong results. My
ambition is to continue to build on our
excellent track record and keep Imperial
Tobacco performing successfully. We 
have the people, the brands and the drive
to succeed.
Iain Napier
Chairman
100
125
150
175
200
225
Sep 07 Sep 06 Sep 05 Sep 04
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE All-Share index
Over the past three years our total shareholder return
was 106 per cent and we have out performed the
FTSE All-Share Index by 74 per cent.
Directors’ Report – Open and
Transparent Reporting
Imperial T obacco has always been committed
to open and transparent reporting. In the
Business Review (formerly known as the
Operating and Financial Review) you will ﬁnd
a section identifying the Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) that the Board uses to
measure progress against strategy and a
section outlining the principal risks facing
the Group. We have also integrated the 
key aspects of our Corporate Responsibility
performance within our Business Review. 
Total Shareholder Return 
Total Shareholder Return is a
Key Performance Indicator
p13 www.imperial-tobacco.com 5
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Directors’ Report
Business Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
6 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
7 Proposed Acquisition of Altadis
8 World Tobacco Market Context
9 Understanding Our Operating Environment
11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally
12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
13 Measuring Our Performance
14 Financial Review
16 Operating Review
18 United Kingdom
19 Germany
22 Rest of Western Europe
23 United States
24 Rest of the World
25 Manufacturing
28 Corporate Responsibility 6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
A strategy for growth
It has been another record year for Imperial Tobacco with further growth 
in cigarette volumes, cigarette market share gains within all regions and
excellent performances from our key brands.
Performance Overview
Our cigarette volumes were up by 7 per cent
with key growth areas including Central and
Eastern Europe, Germany and Asia together
with six months contribution from the
Commonwealth Brands business.
Cigarette market shares increased in our
core markets of the UK and Germany as well
as in Western Europe, Central and Eastern
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. 
Our successful brand strategy has
ensured continued positive developments
for our key brands Davidoff, West and JPS,
growing volumes by 5 per cent, 9 per cent
and 18 per cent respectively. Since our
acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark
in September 2006, we have launched
Davidoff in several new markets and
introduced a number of successful brand
variants, all contributing to our volume 
and market share gains.
As well as developments in our existing
markets, the acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands has given us a ﬁrm foothold in the
proﬁtable US market. We are extremely
pleased with its early performance, with
returns on investment in the ﬁrst six months
exceeding our weighted average cost of
capital. Our Master Settlement Agreement
application is progressing and we expect 
to complete our application in a few weeks
following constructive dialogue with the
National Association of Attorneys General. We
have ﬁnalised our plans for the development
of our own brands and are in a position 
to begin their rollout once we have
completed all aspects of becoming a
participating manufacturer in the Master
Settlement Agreement.
In our manufacturing operations, 
our productivity increased by 7 per cent
demonstrating the excellent progress we
continue to make with our ongoing business
efﬁciency and simpliﬁcation strategies. 
Altadis 
In regard to our proposed acquisition 
of Altadis, we received European
Commission clearance in October 2007,
subject to the enlarged Group divesting 
a small number of ﬁne cut and pipe
tobacco and cigar brands in certain
European markets. As previously highlighted
this will not materially affect the operational
and ﬁnancial performance of the 
enlarged Group. We expect approval of
our offer by the CNMV , the Spanish regulator,
soon and expect to complete the deal in
January 2008. The rights issue, which is
part ﬁnancing the acquisition, will occur
before 18 July 2008.
Regulation
We have a long history of co-operation 
with authorities in the markets in which we
operate and we remain committed to working
constructively with governments and regulatory
bodies worldwide. We believe that sound,
reasonable and practicable regulation,
developed in consultation with the tobacco
industry, is the most effective approach. 
Our Commitment to Corporate
Responsibility
In recent years, we have built a strong
framework in which we manage our
Corporate Responsibility activities, ensuring
that we live up to the high standards we set
for ourselves and the high expectations our
stakeholders have of us. Our success to date
has been reﬂected in several performance
improvements which will be reported in 
detail in our Corporate Responsibility 
Review published in December. 
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive www.imperial-tobacco.com 7
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Proposed Acquisition of Altadis 
able to generate annual operational
efﬁciencies of approximately €300 million.
The proposed acquisition will initially
be ﬁnanced through new debt facilities
and an equity bridge loan, which will 
be reﬁnanced, in part, by a rights issue
following completion of the deal. The
rights issue will occur before 18 July
2008, and will be sized to ensure we
issue the minimum amount of equity
needed to maintain an investment
grade credit rating, to which we
remain committed. 
Strategic Rationale
Altadis and Imperial Tobacco are 
a great strategic ﬁt, a powerful 
combination which would strengthen
our position as the world’s fourth
largest international tobacco company.
The proposed acquisition meets 
our strict acquisition criteria, providing 
us with a signiﬁcant enhancement to 
our operating platform and scale, 
with increased presence in proﬁtable 
mature markets as well as improved
opportunities in emerging markets. 
The enlarged Group will also have
stronger and more diversiﬁed brand
and product portfolios.
Combined with the revenue beneﬁts
and substantial cost savings we expect
to achieve, we believe this is an excellent
deal that will create signiﬁcant value 
for shareholders. 
Outlook
Looking ahead, we are focused on 
long term sustainable growth across 
the business and remain committed to 
our strategy of growing our operations
organically and through acquisitions. 
We have a growing geographic base on
which we seek to build our position, with
our broad product and brand portfolio. 
Our focus on cost and efﬁciency continues,
as well as ensuring the most effective use 
of our free cash ﬂow through value creating
acquisitions such as Commonwealth Brands
and the proposed acquisition of Altadis,
coupled with the ongoing investment in 
our existing business. 
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Transaction Summary
On 18 July 2007, we made a proposed
cash offer for the whole of Altadis at
€50 per share. This gave an equity value
of €12.6 billion or £8.5 billion. When
existing net debt and minorities are
included, it represented an enterprise
value of €16.2 billion or £11.0 billion.
Altadis’ Board considers that this is
an attractive offer and that, in the absence
of a competing offer at a higher price
being ﬁled with the Spanish regulator,
the Altadis Board will recommend it 
to their shareholders. 
We see revenue beneﬁts and
substantial cost savings arising from
the enlarged Group and expect to be
Date Event
18 July 2007 Imperial Tobacco made a proposed cash offer of €50 per share to acquire Altadis
13 August 2007 Extraordinary General Meeting: 99.82% of voting Imperial Tobacco shareholders were in favour 
of the proposed acquisition
August 2007 US Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust clearance received
October 2007 European Commission merger clearance received
November 2007 Expected approval of the proposed offer by the CNMV (Spanish regulator)
January 2008 Expected completion of the proposed acquisition
Before 18 July 2008 Rights issue
I believe that the proposed acquisition 
of Altadis will be a great strategic ﬁt that will
strengthen our position as the world’s fourth
largest international tobacco company, with
revenue beneﬁts and substantial cost
savings arising from the enlarged Group. 
In conclusion, I believe we are well
placed to continue to deliver sustainable
shareholder value.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive 8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
More than ﬁve trillion cigarettes are consumed each year, with the world’s largest cigarette
market, China, accounting for over a third of total global consumption.
World tobacco market context
Industry Overview
The ﬁve largest international tobacco
companies are Altria, British American
Tobacco, Japan Tobacco (including
recently acquired Gallaher), Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis. Global market
share of the ﬁve largest international
tobacco companies, excluding China, 
are 28 per cent, 25 per cent, 16 per cent,
6 per cent and 3 per cent respectively.
In mature markets, we expect smoking
incidence to decline with percentages 
of smokers within total populations
reducing. However, the number of 
adults in the world is set to grow and, 
as a result, we expect that overall annual
global consumption will remain broadly
unchanged at around ﬁve trillion
cigarettes per annum in the medium term.
Tobacco regulation and legislation
has increased in recent years, including
restrictions on smoking in public places,
advertising and promotional restrictions
and pictorial health warnings. 
Excise Duty
Increases in excise duty in many of the
mature higher price markets such as
the UK, are leading consumers to
downtrade to cheaper brands. This trend
is expected to continue. Conversely in
emerging markets, premium brands are
growing as consumers are increasingly
trading up.
One of the biggest challenges facing
the industry is illicit trade. International
disparities in the rates of excise duty have
created an environment that encourages
the growth of smuggling, illegal cross-
border trading and counterfeiting.
Industry Growth Opportunities
While the tobacco industry is mature,
with global volumes broadly stable, we
believe there are still many opportunities
to grow proﬁts. 
While traditional communications
channels are reducing through increased
regulation, we expect the signiﬁcant
international cigarette brands to grow
from their current position of around
30 per cent of total global volume,
excluding China.
Recent industry consolidation such
as Japan Tobacco’s acquisition of
Gallaher and our proposed acquisition 
of Altadis, combined with investments 
in smaller scale bolt-on acquisitions and
underlying organic growth, should increase
opportunities for the international
tobacco companies.
Global market shares 
excluding China
Altria   28% 
British American Tobacco 25%
Japan Tobacco  16%
Imperial Tobacco    6%
Altadis     3%
Other   22%
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com www.imperial-tobacco.com 9
Understanding our operating environment
Tobacco Regulation
Regulatory pressures on the industry 
have continued during 2007. Governments
around the world are pursuing in varying
degrees the further regulation of tobacco
products, including restrictions affecting 
the manufacture, development, sale,
distribution, marketing and advertising 
of tobacco products.
Developments in the areas of smoking in
public places, the ﬁrst global tobacco treaty,
pictorial health warnings, excise duty and
tobacco-related litigation are outlined below.
In addition, there have been other
regulatory developments during the year
including further restrictions on product
display, new reporting formats for the
increased disclosure of tobacco ingredients,
and, debate in the EU and Australia on 
the testing and standards of lower ignition
propensity cigarettes that are currently
available throughout Canada and in 
several US states.
Smoking in Public Places
In a number of the markets and regions 
in which we operate the debate on the
introduction of increased restrictions on
smoking in public places and the work
place has intensiﬁed.
Our View
We support sensible regulation but believe
that bans on smoking in public places are
disproportionate and unnecessary. 
Our experience in markets where smoking
restrictions or total bans are in place supports
our view on the impact of this legislation.
Smokers will continue to smoke, and 
while there may be an initial dip in cigarette
consumption, this tends to diminish over time.
We believe that concerns about smoking
in public places can be resolved through
common sense and courtesy and by
introducing practical solutions such as 
well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking
areas into work places, restaurants and
other public places.
2007 Update
On 30 January 2007, the EU Commission
launched a Green Paper seeking views on
the scope of measures to regulate public
smoking. The Green Paper presents ﬁve
policy options including exemptions for certain
venues, for example restaurants and bars.
In June 2007, the European Parliament
released its own draft report on the Green
Paper calling on the Commission to present
a proposal by 2008 for a comprehensive
ban in all enclosed work places, catering
establishments, public buildings and
transport within the EU.
The UK now has a comprehensive ban on
smoking in public places and work places
including bars, restaurants and private
member clubs. Following the introduction 
of restrictions in Scotland in March 2006,
Wales followed on 2 April 2007, Northern
Ireland on 30 April 2007 and England on 
1 July 2007.
The French Government published a
decree in November 2006 banning smoking
in public places from 1 February 2007, 
but giving bars, restaurants, nightclubs,
“We have continued our long
standing approach of constructive
engagement with the authorities in
the markets in which we operate.”
Alison Cooper
Corporate Development Director
We have operated proﬁtably in a highly regulated environment for many years.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Directors’ Report: Business Review
hotels and tobacconists a derogation 
until 1 January 2008. 
In Germany, the Government’s ban 
on smoking in all government buildings,
whilst allowing for the provision of separate
smoking areas, as well as a total ban 
on public transport, came into effect on 
1 September 2007. Legislation for hospitality
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants
continues to be debated at the Federal
State level, with the implementation of further
restrictions planned in the coming months. 
In the Australian States of Victoria, New
South Wales and the Australian Capital
Territory further public smoking restrictions
have come into effect.
Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control 
The World Health Organisation’s (WHO)
Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
(FCTC) took effect on 27 February 2005
and by the end of September 2007 had
been ratiﬁed by 151 countries as well as the
EU. The FCTC is the ﬁrst global tobacco
treaty that seeks to regulate tobacco
products in a number of areas including
advertising, labelling, product testing and the
submission of ingredient information as well
as product traceability. The FCTC also
addresses tobacco taxation and calls for
tightened legislation to combat the illicit
trade in tobacco products.
Our View
We agree with many aspects of the
convention, most notably the need to prevent
youth smoking and the urgent need to stamp
out both smuggling and counterfeiting of
tobacco products. However, it is our belief 
that some of the FCTC provisions seek to 
go beyond reasonable objectives and impose
a supranational regulatory regime covering 
a wide range of areas better addressed by
national regulators, who are familiar with 
local conditions. Moreover, it gives the WHO
authority to establish rules in areas outside its
core competence – areas that fall under the
jurisdiction of other bodies such as the World
Trade Organisation or the International
Standards Organisation.  10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Excise Duty
Tobacco products are subject to excise duty
which, in most markets in which we operate,
represents a substantial percentage of the
retail price. High taxes and international
disparities in rates of excise duty charged on
tobacco products have created an environment
in which both illegal cross-border trading and
counterfeiting have proliferated.
Our View
We remain totally opposed to illegal cross-
border trading and counterfeiting of tobacco
products. We are committed to working with
government authorities and international
organisations around the world to counter
the illicit trade in tobacco products.
2007 Update
In general, levels of excise duty have been
steadily increasing in recent years in a number
of markets in which we operate and this
trend continued in EU Member States in
2007. Nearly all the Member States that
joined the EU in May 2004 and January
2007 have continued to implement excise
duty increases as they move towards the
minimum EU level. 
In the European Union, the EU Tobacco
Excise Tax Directive contains a provision for
it to be evaluated every four years. As part
of the current review a technical consultation
document was published on 30 March 2007
seeking overall excise duty simpliﬁcation
and a narrowing of ﬁne cut and cigarette
excise duty. The European Commission is
expected to issue a formal report, with ﬁrm
proposals to amend the minimum levels of
excise duty relating to tobacco, by the end
of 2007. Discussions at Member State,
European Parliament and European Council
level are expected to follow in 2008. The
new EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is
then expected to be adopted in 2009, with
implementation in the period 2010 – 2012.
We have continued to work with customs
authorities in a number of countries around
the world to counter the illicit trade in tobacco
products. We have now signed formal
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) in 
a number of countries including the UK,
Ireland, Turkey and China, with similar
industry wide co-operation agreements 
in Australia and the Ukraine.
Tobacco-Related Litigation
We are not facing any active tobacco-
related litigation in the UK.
In the Republic of Ireland, the number of
tobacco-related claims has fallen from 307
in 1997, to 11. Ten of these claims are
subject to dismissal motions. The other
claim is inactive. The dismissal motion in
respect of one claimant was heard by 
the Dublin High Court in November and
December 2006. In April 2007, the court
ruled that this claim should be dismissed.
This decision has been appealed and the
dismissal motions in respect of the nine
other active claims have been stayed
pending the appeal. No date has been 
set for the appeal hearing.
We are no longer facing any claims in
Poland. In November 2006, we received a
favourable judgment in a case brought against
us by an individual. Also in November 2006,
an appeal court upheld the dismissal in
March 2006 of a separate individual case.
Neither claimant has appealed these decisions
and they are now out of time to do so.
Despite threats to do so, no proceedings
have been commenced against us in 
the Netherlands.
Following our acquisition of
Commonwealth Brands in April 2007,
we are currently facing two claims brought
by individuals in the United States of America,
one of which has been dismissed but could
still theoretically be appealed; the other is
inactive and has been for some time. A
third case against Commonwealth Brands
was dismissed in June 2007 and cannot 
be appealed. This is consistent with the
considerable improvements we have 
seen in the US litigation environment.
To date, no judgment has been entered
against Imperial Tobacco and no action 
has been settled in favour of a claimant 
in any tobacco-related litigation involving
Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its
lawyers that it has meritorious defences to
the legal proceedings in which damages are
sought for alleged tobacco-related health
effects. We will continue to vigorously
contest all such litigation against us.
2007 Update
The second Conference of Parties (all
countries which have ratiﬁed the FCTC)
took place in July 2007. During the meeting,
the draft guideline on protection from
Environmental Tobacco Smoke (Article 8)
was unanimously adopted and it was decided
that further work will be conducted on
product regulation and illicit trade. New
work agreed includes the development of
guidelines in the following areas: advertising
and sponsorship, packaging and labelling,
smoking cessation, tobacco industry
interference and education. The development
work for a protocol that would focus solely
on cross-border advertising has been
suspended following the decision for a
comprehensive guideline on advertising,
sponsorship and promotion.
Pictorial Health Warnings
Pictorial health warnings are mandatory in a
number of countries including Canada, Brazil,
Australia, Thailand and Singapore. Other
countries around the world are considering
the use of pictorial health warnings.
Our View
We do not believe that pictorial health
warnings are necessary. It is our view that
such warnings are designed solely to shock
and stigmatise smokers, and we disagree
with their use. We believe that pictorial health
warnings make no overall contribution to the
public awareness of the risks associated
with smoking, which are already well known.
We believe that we are entitled to use our
packaging to enable our consumers to
distinguish our products from those of 
our competitors.
2007 Update
Belgium was the ﬁrst EU Member State to
adopt legislation requiring pictorial health
warnings to be introduced for cigarettes.
Following our challenge to the Belgian
regulations, the Ministry of Health changed
the regulations and now requires 14 pictorial
health warnings, instead of the 42 originally
proposed. Products bearing the new 
health warnings appeared on shelves 
from early 2007.
The UK Government has announced that
from October 2008 pictorial health warnings
will be required on all tobacco product packs.
In New Zealand, a health warning and
corresponding graphic must cover 30 per
cent of the front and 90 per cent of the back
of cigarette packs from February 2008. In
T aiwan, pictorial health warning legislation is
expected to take effect from January 2009.
Other countries considering the use of pictorial
health warnings include Latvia, Slovakia,
Switzerland and the Republic of Ireland. www.imperial-tobacco.com 11
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Our Strategic Objectives
We deliver our strategy by actively pursuing
three primary objectives:
Sales Development
We are growing our business internationally
through organic growth and acquisitions.
Strong Geographic Footprint
We have a strong international proﬁle, with
our products sold in over 130 countries.
We see opportunities, both organic and
acquisition-led, to enhance and extend our
existing operations in our Rest of Western
Europe, United States and Rest of the World
regions, with our strong positions in the 
UK and Germany continuing to be key
contributors to our overall results.
Our historical roots are in the UK and we
have held a signiﬁcant position in Germany
since our acquisition of Reemtsma. In both
these markets, our strategic focus is the
proﬁtable development of our strong portfolio
across all product groups.
We operate in Western Europe with
important markets including the Netherlands,
1
1
the Republic of Ireland, France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Greece and
Italy. In these countries we are focused on
building our cigarette market shares, along
with strengthening our position in ﬁne cut
tobacco and rolling papers.
Outside Western Europe we have
strengths in sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle
East, selected countries in Central and
Eastern Europe, Asia and Australasia and 
in Duty Free. Our key markets within these
regions include the Ivory Coast, Saudi Arabia,
Poland, Russia, Ukraine, T aiwan and Australia.
Our strategy continues to be focused on
developing our international strategic and
regional brands and expanding our presence
in both existing and new markets. Our
recent acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands gives us an established platform
from which to grow in the US market.
We continue to seek acquisitions which
increase both our international scale and
penetration of our targeted markets,
particularly where those businesses 
have highly complementary geographic
proﬁles and strong brand portfolios.
A strategy that delivers globally
Our strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by
growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Broad Product and Brand Portfolio
Our broad product and brand portfolio
includes international cigarette brands such
as Davidoff and West and strong regional
and local brands such as JPS, Lambert &
Butler, Classic, Maxim, Excellence and
Horizon. Complementing our cigarette
portfolio is our world leadership in ﬁne 
cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes 
with brands such as Golden Virginia, 
Drum and Rizla. To ensure we continue 
to leverage and build brand equity, our
brand strategy takes a portfolio approach
responsive to individual market dynamics
and price segmentation.
Cost Optimisation and 
Efficiency Improvements
Our continued focus on reducing costs 
and improving our efﬁciency supports our
sales development. Our ongoing search 
for productivity improvements, through 
the effective use of our assets and by
optimising our manufacturing capacity,
is the primary driver of our manufacturing
strategy. We seek continuous performance
improvements and believe there is further
potential for cost savings through our
ongoing programme of standardisation 
and the extension of best practice across
all our manufacturing facilities, while
safeguarding our reputation for quality,
ﬂexibility and innovation.
This cost focus extends beyond
manufacturing and, throughout Imperial
Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost
optimisation and shareholder value creation.
Effective Cash Management
Imperial Tobacco is a highly cash generative
business. Our focus is on managing capital
expenditure and working capital, tax and
interest costs. Our strategy is to ensure 
that the cash we generate is used efﬁciently
through acquisitions, organic investment
and returning funds to our shareholders, 
adding to our value creation. 
We have invested £6.2 billion in
acquisitions since our listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 1996 and have
returned over £0.8 billion to shareholders
through our share buyback programme. 
We are committed to continuing to expand
our business through both acquisitions 
and organic investment opportunities. 
Our dividend policy is to increase dividends
broadly in line with growth in adjusted
earnings per share, with a payout ratio 
of around 50 per cent.
1
3
1
2
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
To create sustainable 
shareholder value by growing both 
organically and through acquisitions
Sales 
development
Cost optimisation
and efficiency 
improvements
Effective cash
management
1 2 3
Measuring success (Key Performance Indicators)
Adjusted earnings per
share 
Cash conversion 
rate
Cigarette market
share
Volumes Productivity
Total shareholder return Adjusted operating 
margin
Group strategy
Strategic objectives A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by management and is embedded
into our corporate planning process.
12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
For more information see the Corporate
Governance section of this Report
p37
Principal risks and uncertainties
Each area of the business is required to
formally review their principal areas of risk
and uncertainty so that major risks are
reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This is an ongoing process, ensuring there
are clear and consistent procedures for
monitoring, updating and implementing
appropriate controls to manage the
identiﬁed risks. The Board acknowledges
responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control. More detailed
information on the Group’s approach 
to risk management is found in the
Corporate Governance Report.
We are subject to the same general
risks and uncertainties as any other
business, for example, the political stability
in the countries in which we operate and
source our raw materials, the impact of
natural disasters and changes in general
economic conditions including currency
and interest rate ﬂuctuations, changes 
in taxation legislation and the impact 
of competition. 
Outlined below is a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that are
speciﬁc to, and may impact, our business.
Not all these factors are within the Group’s
control. There may be other risks and
uncertainties which are unknown to the
Group or which may not be material 
now but could turn out to be material 
in the future.
A more detailed description of the 
risks relating to us and to the proposed
acquisition of Altadis is set out in Part III 
of our circular to shareholders dated 
18 July 2007 and is available on our
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com
Regulation
The tobacco industry is subject to
substantial and increasing regulation. 
For many years the trend has been
towards an increasingly restrictive
regulatory environment. In many of 
the markets in which we operate, 
there are regulatory restrictions affecting 
the manufacture, development, sale,
distribution, marketing and advertising 
of tobacco products. Increased regulation
may increase our operating costs and
may have an adverse effect on the
demand for our products. 
Excise Duty 
Increasing excise duty on tobacco products
is likely to reduce the demand for tobacco
products. Tobacco products are subject
to excise duty which, in many of the markets
in which we operate, represents a
substantial percentage of the retail price
and has been steadily increasing in recent
years. Increasing levels of excise duty
have, among other things, encouraged
consumers in affected markets to switch
from premium priced cigarettes to lower
priced cigarettes and ﬁne cut tobacco. 
Substantial increases in excise duty
and any signiﬁcantly unfavourable change
in the tax treatment of ﬁne cut tobacco, 
if widely adopted, may have an adverse
effect on the size of individual duty paid
markets for our products.
Excise duty increases have also
encouraged both legal and illegal cross-
border trade from countries with lower
levels of duty and the production of
counterfeit tobacco products. Within 
such an environment there is a risk that
we and/or our employees may be 
subject to investigation by customs 
or other authorities. Although we have
implemented procedures to detect and
control illegal trading of our products,
such procedures can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
of detecting non-compliance by managing
rather than eliminating risk.
Further information regarding certain
investigations initiated by the German
authorities in January 2003 in relation 
to alleged foreign trading and related
violations by a number of people,
including former Reemtsma employees,
during a period prior to our 2002
acquisition of Reemtsma, is included 
in the Corporate Governance Report.
Key Market Dependency
The continued organic growth of the
business is underpinned by our key
markets. Any material decline in the
performance of these markets may 
impact our future proﬁt development. 
Competition Law
We have signiﬁcant market positions in
certain markets. As a result, we may be
subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny as 
to competition law in these markets, which
could result in adverse regulatory action by
relevant authorities, including the potential 
for monetary ﬁnes, and negative publicity. 
Along with a number of other companies
we supplied information to the UK Ofﬁce
of Fair Trading (OFT) in October 2003 
and April 2005 in relation to an enquiry
into the operations of the UK tobacco
supply chain, but to date no substantive
response to any of the information
submitted has been received from the
OFT. The OFT’s enquiry is continuing. 
In the event that the OFT ultimately
decides that a company has infringed 
UK competition law, it may impose a ﬁne. 
Litigation 
We may incur substantial costs in
connection with health-related litigation.
Various tobacco litigation claims are
pending against the Group. To date, no
tobacco litigation claim brought against
Imperial Tobacco has been successful
and/or resulted in the recovery of damages.
However, if any individual claim were to 
be successful, it may result in a signiﬁcant
liability for damages, and may lead to www.imperial-tobacco.com 13
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Adjusted Earnings
Per Share
Key Performance Indicators 2007 performance Previous years
Total Shareholder
Return
Adjusted Operating
Margin
Cash Conversion
Rate
Cigarette Market
Share
1
Volumes
Measuring our performance
Key Performance Indicators are the principal measures used
by the Board to assess performance against our strategy. 
Productivity
2006: 14%
2005: 40%
2006: 122.2p
2005: 112.2p
2006: 42.9%
2005: 41.5% 
2006: 98%
2005: 101% 
2006: 45.5%
2005: 44.5% 
2006: 20.7%
2005: 19.4% 
2006: 186.9bn
2005: 175.2bn 
2006: 25,500t
2005: 26,600t 
2006: up by 6%
2005: up by 15% 
30%
136. 7p
45.0%
81%
46.4%
UK 
21.3%
Germany
200.3bn
Cigarette
24,450t
Fine Cut Tobacco
upby7%
23
further claims against us. Regardless 
of the outcome of pending litigation,
the costs of defending such claims 
can be substantial and may not be 
fully recoverable.
Proposed Acquisition of Altadis
The proposed acquisition of Altadis 
is conditional on 80 per cent of Altadis
shareholders accepting our offer and
on Altadis shareholders resolving to
amend Altadis bye-laws to remove
certain restrictions on voting rights.
While we believe that we have a
proven track record of integrating
acquisitions, the success of the
proposed acquisition will be dependent
on our ability to integrate Altadis
without disruption to our and its
existing business. The integration of
Altadis may involve particular challenges
and will require management attention
that would otherwise be devoted to
running our business. We can offer 
no assurance that we will be able to
realise the potential beneﬁts of the
proposed acquisition to the extent
envisaged and within the timeframe
contemplated. If we are unable to
successfully integrate Altadis, this could
have a negative impact on the revenue,
proﬁt and ﬁnancial condition of the
enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group. 
The circular relating to the proposed
acquisition of Altadis is available on our
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com
Part III of the circular outlines in detail 
the risk factors relating to the 
proposed acquisition.
1. Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2. Excluding Commonwealth Brands
3. Excluding our Lahr factory in Germany, which was impacted by the 
cessation of Singles production. The factory was subsequently closed
in March 2007
Our KPIs are defined
in full in the Glossary
p120 In 2007, revenue was £12,344 million
compared to £11,676 million in 2006.
Excluding duty and similar items, net
revenue was £3,280 million (2006: 
£3,162 million).
Adjusted proﬁt from operations was 
up 9 per cent to £1,475 million and Group
adjusted operating margin rose to 45.0 per
cent (2006: 42.9 per cent). Reported proﬁt
from operations grew 8 per cent to £1,418
million (2006: £1,311 million).
Good organic growth throughout the
business with volume increases and pricing
improvements have offset the cessation 
of Singles in Germany. Our overall results
beneﬁted from six months contribution from
Commonwealth Brands following its
acquisition in April.
Group Operating Performance 
2007 2006
£m £m
Net revenue 3,280 3,162
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 1,475 1,356
Amortisation of acquired trademarks (23) –
Restructuring costs – (45)
Fair value movements on derivatives (34) –
Proﬁt from operations 1,418 1,311
Adjusted operating margin 45.0% 42.9%
14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
increase was due to higher average adjusted
net debt of £4.3 billion (2006: £3.5 billion)
and a marginally higher average all in cost
of debt of 5.5 per cent (2006: 5.4 per cent)
reﬂecting higher euro interest rates on our
ﬂoating rate debt. Adjusted interest cover
was 6.2 times (2006: 7.2 times). Reported
net ﬁnance costs of £181 million (2006:
£143 million) included retirement beneﬁt 
net ﬁnance income of £54 million (2006:
£46 million) and fair value gains on interest
rate derivatives of £2 million (2006: loss
of £1 million). 
Proﬁt Before Tax
Adjusted proﬁt before tax was £1,238
million, up 6 per cent on 2006. Reported
proﬁt before tax increased to £1,237 million
(2006: £1,168 million). 
Taxation
The adjusted tax charge for the year 
was £310 million (2006: £310 million),
representing an adjusted effective tax 
rate of 25.0 per cent (2006: 26.5 per cent).
The reported tax charge was £325 million
(2006: £310 million).
Earnings and Dividends
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 
12 per cent to 136.7 pence (2006: 122.2
pence) and basic earnings per share
increased by 10 per cent to 134.3 pence
(2006: 122.2 pence). We have proposed 
a ﬁnal dividend of 48.5 pence such that the 
total dividend for the year is 69.5 pence, an
increase of 12 per cent. Following approval
by shareholders, this dividend will be paid 
on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 
18 January 2008. Our policy remains to 
grow dividends broadly in line with adjusted
earnings per share, with a payout ratio 
of around 50 per cent.
Net Debt and Cash
At 30 September 2007, our reported net
debt had increased to £4.9 billion (2006:
£3.9 billion). Eliminating the fair value of
interest rate derivatives and accrued
interest of £0.1 billion (2006: £0.1 billion),
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
In 2007 we delivered another record ﬁnancial performance.
Financial strength
Trademark Amortisation, 
Restructuring Costs and Derivative
Financial Instruments
Reported proﬁt from operations in 2007
included trademark amortisation costs of 
£23 million, principally related to trademarks
acquired under the Commonwealth Brands
acquisition, and £34 million fair value losses 
on derivative ﬁnancial instruments on
commercially effective hedges. 
The 2006 restructuring costs of £45
million relate to the closures of our Lahr 
and Liverpool factories. There were no
restructuring costs in 2007.
Net Finance Costs
Adjusted net ﬁnance costs increased to
£237 million (2006: £188 million). This www.imperial-tobacco.com 15
Directors’ Report: Business Review
our adjusted net debt was £4.8 billion
(2006: £3.8 billion). The increase in adjusted
net debt was primarily due to the acquisition
of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007. 
During the year to 30 September 2007,
we spent a further £105 million, including
transaction costs, acquiring 5.7 million of
our shares at an average market price of
£18.31 per share. Prior to the suspension
of our share buyback programme, at 
the time of our announcement of the
Commonwealth Brands acquisition, 
we had spent a cumulative £862 million,
including transaction costs, buying back
51.7 million shares representing 7.1 per
cent of issued share capital.
Our cash conversion for year ended
September 2007 was 81 per cent (2006: 98
per cent). This is lower than our targeted rate
of around 100 per cent due to a higher level
of net capital expenditure, as well as a short
term increase in working capital of £194
million as a result of stock building in certain
Central European markets in advance of duty
increases due in January 2008.
Acquisitions
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands
was completed on 2 April 2007. In January
2007, we also acquired a controlling
interest in Tremaco, a tobacco and
tobacco-related products distribution
business based in Estonia.
Financing of the Proposed 
Acquisition of Altadis
The proposed acquisition of Altadis will be
ﬁnanced through new bank debt facilities
and a rights issue.
Regional Performance Analysis
Net Adjusted proﬁt Cigarette FineCut 
revenue from operations volumes Tobacco Volumes
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m bn bn tonnes tonnes
UK 876 835 564 506 22.9 23.4 2,200 2,100
Germany 524 575 238 270 20.4 19.9 4,700 6,300
Rest of Western Europe 635 637 326 324 19.6 20.1 14,900 15,100
United States 117 14 52 4 7.1 – 100 –
Rest of the World 1,128 1,101 295 252 130.3 123.5 2,550 2,000
Total 3,280 3,162 1,475 1,356 200.3 186.9 24,450 25,500
Detail on our regional performance can be found on pages 18 to 25 of this report.
At the time of launching our proposed offer
in July, new bank facilities of £9.2 billion
were put in place ready to reﬁnance certain
existing Imperial and Altadis bank facilities,
as well as to provide the debt portion of 
the acquisition funding. 
As the proceeds of the rights issue will
not be available on completion of the deal
and in order to satisfy the requirements for
bank guarantees (avales) to be issued in
respect of the total consideration payable,
an equity bridge facility of £5.4 billion was
put in place to cover the funding requirements
until the rights issue process is complete. 
The rights issue will occur before 18 July
2008 and will be sized to ensure that we
issue the minimum amount of equity
needed to maintain an investment grade
credit rating, to which we are committed.
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to ‘Rest
of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for 2006 have
been re-stated accordingly. Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business have been re-
classiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘United States’ as the United States segment has been introduced following
the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands. 16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Strong brands
Our key global brands of Davidoff, West, Drum, Golden Virginia and Rizla
are complemented by a strong portfolio of regional and local brands such 
as Lambert & Butler, Classic, JPS, Horizon, Maxim and Excellence.
Davidoff: Key Premium
International Cigarette Brand
Davidoff is sold in over 100 countries
worldwide and is particularly strong in
Taiwan, Greece and the Middle East.
Drum: Key International Strategic
Fine Cut Tobacco Brand
Drum is the second largest ﬁne cut
tobacco brand in the world, sold in 
over 45 markets worldwide. 
“We have seen some excellent
performances from our key
strategic cigarette brands,
Davidoff andWest, supported
by good progress from a
number of our regional brands
with JPS a particular highlight.”
Graham Blashill
Group Sales and Marketing Director www.imperial-tobacco.com 17
Directors’ Report: Business Review
JPS: Key Regional 
Cigarette Brand
JPS is our key low-priced cigarette
brand and is growing in a number 
of markets across Western Europe.
Rizla: The World’s Best 
Selling Rolling Paper
Rizla is available in over 120 markets
worldwide and is the number one 
rolling paper brand in the UK, Belgium,
Greece, France, Italy, Scandinavia 
and Africa.
Golden Virginia: Key International
Fine Cut Tobacco Brand
Golden Virginia is the number one ﬁne
cut tobacco brand in the UK. It is sold 
in over 35 markets, predominately in
Western Europe.
West: Our Largest International
Volume Brand
West has signiﬁcant presence in
Germany, Central and Eastern Europe. 18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
United Kingdom
We continued to build on our market leading position in the UK 
and have delivered excellent financial results.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £876m £835m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £564m £506m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 22.9bn 23.4bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 2,200t 2,100t
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
47.9bn 49.1bn
Market size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
3,500t 3,250t
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
46.4% 45.5%
Imperial Tobacco market share: 
ﬁne cut tobacco
1
63.6% 65.3%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Market Dynamics
We estimate that the total UK cigarette
market was down 2 per cent to 47.9 billion,
with strong growth in the value and economy
sector continuing, now accounting for over
44 per cent of the total market. Following 
a buoyant ﬁrst half, the cigarette market
declined in the second half following the
introduction of bans on smoking in public
places and the poor weather. The ﬁne cut
tobacco market grew by 8 per cent to
3,500 tonnes (2006: 3,250 tonnes), with
downtrading into and within the segment.
A ban on smoking in public places was
introduced in England on 1 July 2007,
following similar bans in Wales and
Northern Ireland earlier in the year. As
anticipated, and in line with our experiences
in other markets with similar legislation,
these have resulted in an initial decline in
cigarette market volumes. Once the initial
per cent) and the UK’s number two brand,
Richmond, was up at 15.7 per cent (2006:
15.5 per cent). Following the introduction 
of Windsor Blue last year, the brand
continued to grow strongly in the economy
sector capturing 2.6 per cent share of the
total market.
In ﬁne cut tobacco, our market share
dipped to 63.6 per cent (2006: 65.3 per
cent) but Golden Virginia continues to 
lead the market. We launched Gold Leaf
in June 2007 in the value segment, and
had grown to 1.6 per cent market share 
in September 2007. We are the UK market
leader in rolling papers and, in August, we
launched a new variant Rizla Smooth with
positive results to date.
Outlook
The UK is an important proﬁt centre for the
Group. With our broad product and brand
portfolio and the initiatives we have taken 
in the economy cigarette and the value ﬁne
cut tobacco sectors, we believe we are well
placed to continue to build on our market
leading position.
impact of public smoking bans has
dissipated, we expect annual cigarette
market declines of 3 to 4 per cent 
in line with the long term trend.
On 1 October 2007, the minimum age
for the sale of tobacco products by retailers
in England, Scotland and Wales was
increased from 16 to 18.
Our Performance
In the UK, net revenue grew by 5 per cent,
to £876 million, with adjusted proﬁt from
operations up by 11 per cent to £564
million. This strong ﬁnancial performance
reﬂects growth in our cigarette market
share, cost savings and pricing
improvements.
Our cigarette market share climbed to
46.4 per cent (2006: 45.5 per cent). The
UK’s best selling cigarette brand, Lambert &
Butler, was up to 16.6 per cent (2006: 16.2 www.imperial-tobacco.com 19
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Germany
Our cigarette share grew in Germany, with JPS continuing 
its strong upward trend.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £524m £575m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £238m £270m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 20.4bn 19.9bn
Imperial Tobacco other tobacco products
volumes (as cigarette equivalents) 8.0bn 10.0bn
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
91bn 92bn
Market size: other tobacco products 
(as cigarette equivalents)
1
36bn 43bn
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
21.3% 20.7%
Imperial Tobacco market share: other 
tobacco products (as cigarette equivalents)
1
19.1% 21.8%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to
‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for
2006 have been restated accordingly.
Market Dynamics 
The German market continued to be
impacted by the cessation of the make 
your own Singles product, following the
change in taxation status of the product in
April 2006. This, combined with successive
tobacco tax increases, has increased 
both legal and illegal cross-border ﬂows 
into Germany.
We estimate that the overall tobacco
market in 2007 was down 6 per cent to
127 billion cigarette equivalents (2006: 135
billion). The cigarette market fell slightly to
91 billion cigarettes (2006: 92 billion), with
downtrading continuing, resulting in strong
growth in the low price branded cigarette
smoking areas as well as a total ban 
on public transport, came into effect on 
1 September 2007. Legislation for hospitality
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants
and regional state government buildings
continues to be debated at the Regional
State level, with the implementation of further
restrictions planned in the coming months. 
Our Performance
In Germany, net revenue fell to £524 million,
with adjusted proﬁt from operations down
to £238 million. Our results beneﬁted from
continued growth in our cigarette market
share and cost efﬁciencies, but were
adversely affected by the cessation of the
proﬁtable Singles product and the decline 
in the total duty paid tobacco market.
Our cigarette market share grew to 
21.3 per cent (2006: 20.7 per cent), with 
an excellent performance from JPS which
increased its market share to 6.4 per cent
(2006: 3.8 per cent). Along with other mid
priced brands, West, the second largest
cigarette brand in Germany, continued 
to be impacted by downtrading with its
market share down to 7.2 per cent (2006:
8.2 per cent). Davidoff, in the premium
sector, remained broadly stable at 1.0 
per cent of the total cigarette market 
(2006: 1.1 per cent).
Our market share of other tobacco
products was down to 19.1 per cent 
(2006: 21.8 per cent) impacted by the
migration of former Singles consumers, 
and increased competition in this sector.
Our make your own West and JPS Single
Tobacco products and newly launched
Route 66 make your own tobacco
performed well and have captured a
signiﬁcant share of this growing segment.
Outlook
We are focused on continuing the positive
developments in our cigarette market share.
We believe we are well positioned to beneﬁt
from the downtrading environment, given
our strength in value cigarettes and our
broad product portfolio. 
segment, now 19.1 per cent of the cigarette
market compared to 11.4 per cent a year ago.
Other tobacco products were down 16
per cent to 36 billion cigarette equivalents
(2006: 43 billion). In 2006, Singles accounted
for 20 billion cigarette equivalents of the
total other tobacco products sector. In line
with our view at our interim results in May,
we estimate that approximately 20 per cent
of former Singles consumers have moved
into duty paid cigarettes, 55 per cent into
other tobacco products and 25 per cent
into both legal and illegal cross-border ﬂows.
The Federal Government’s ban on
smoking in all federal government buildings,
whilst allowing for the provision of separate 20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Operating Review continued
International expansion
Our success is built on the consistent and successful execution of our strategy.
We have grown our business internationally both organically and through
acquisitions in recent years.
Our US cigarette market share:
3.7%
of the total market 
13.4%
of the discount sector
The US Market
US is the world’s second largest cigarette market 
by volume after China, accounting for a signiﬁcant 
percentage of the tobacco industry global proﬁts.
Commonwealth Brands
On 2 April 2007 we acquired Commonwealth
Brands, the fourth largest cigarette manufacturer 
in the US for US$1.9 billion.
US Key Brands
The two key brands are USA Gold and Sonoma,
which hold 8.2 per cent and 4.8 per cent of the
discount cigarette sector respectively. www.imperial-tobacco.com 21
Directors’ Report: Business Review
+5%
Davidoff volume growth in 2007
Scandinavia
We have expanded our Central European footprint 
in recent years, with investments and acquisitions 
in Sweden, Norway and Estonia.
Davidoff
Following the acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff cigarette trademark in
September 2006 we have accelerated the brand’s development and widened
its geographic proﬁle with brand launches in a number of new markets.
skruf.
> Following our investment in 
Skruf in 2005, we have focused 
on developing our snus position.
> We have grown our cigarette
market share in Norway to 3.5 per
cent following our 2006 acquisition
of Gunnar Stenberg.
> We have introduced a number 
of our own brands into Estonia,
following our acquisition of
Tremaco in January 2007. 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Rest of Western Europe
Our cigarette share grew in a number of markets in our Rest of
Western Europe region, reflecting growth in Davidoff, West and JPS.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £635m £637m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £326m £324m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 19.6bn 20.1bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 14,900t 15,100t
Regional Overview
2007 2006
Regional size: cigarette
1
320bn 320bn
Regional size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
31,200t 30,450t
Imperial Tobacco Market Shares
1
Cigarette Fine Cut Tobacco
2007 2006 2007 2006
Belgium 10.6% 10.2% 10.9% 10.4%
France 4.0% 3.6% 26.7% 28.0%
Greece 9.7% 8.4% 43.8% 45.2%
Ireland 26.4% 26.2% 65.6% 67.4%
Italy 1.3% 1.5% 49.0% 54.1%
Netherlands 10.6% 8.9% 51.1% 51.1%
Portugal 4.1% 3.4% 42.5% 57.7%
Spain 5.9% 6.4% 56.2% 58.8%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
our cigarette shares and beneﬁted from
pricing improvements, but results were
impacted by lower travel retail sales and
euro exchange rates.
Cigarette Performance
Our cigarette market share was up to 
10.6 per cent in the Netherlands with an
excellent performance from JPS. Route 66
and newly launched JPS grew our market
share in Belgium to 10.6 per cent. JPS
delivered another good performance in
France, where market share was up to 
4.0 per cent. In Ireland, our market share
improvement to 26.4 per cent was driven
by John Player Blue. In Greece, Davidoff
and West continued to grow strongly 
with our total market share continuing its
upward trend to 9.7 per cent. In Spain our
market share was impacted by lower travel
retail sales and was down to 5.9 per cent,
while in Portugal our market share climbed
to 4.1 per cent, again with strong growth
from JPS.
Fine Cut Tobacco Performance
In ﬁne cut tobacco the market remains
extremely competitive, although the
portfolio extension and repositioning
initiatives we have undertaken have 
started to deliver some market share
improvements. Newly launched Bastos
has grown our market share in Belgium 
to 10.9 per cent, while in the Netherlands,
the largest ﬁne cut tobacco market in the
region, our overall market share was stable
at 51.1 per cent with Zilver and Evergreen
performing well. Despite growth in JPS, 
our market share was down in France to
26.7 per cent, due to increased competition
from cigarette branded ﬁne cut tobacco
launches. In Italy, Peter Stuyvesant make
your own was launched in April and has
been successful, capturing 2.9 per cent of
the ﬁne cut tobacco market by September.
Outlook
The strength of our broad portfolio continues
to offer us a number of growth opportunities.
We are focused on further developing the
positive momentum behind our growing
cigarette shares. Although we expect the
ﬁne cut tobacco market will continue to be
challenging, we will focus on ensuring the
success of the initiatives we have taken
with our ﬁne cut tobacco portfolio.
Regional Dynamics 
We estimate that the regional cigarette
market was stable at 320 billion cigarettes
with the annual regional ﬁne cut tobacco
market up to 31,200 tonnes. The pricing
environment is improving with increases 
in a number of markets, including Spain,
the Netherlands and France. 
The introduction of bans on smoking 
in public places continues to be debated 
at both the EU and Member State level,
including further restrictions introduced in
France on 1 February 2007. Pictorial health
warnings appeared on cigarette packs in
Belgium in early 2007.
Our Performance
Net revenue was down slightly to £635
million, with adjusted proﬁt from operations
up slightly to £326 million. We have grown www.imperial-tobacco.com 23
Directors’ Report: Business Review
United States
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007 has
significantly increased our presence in this profitable market.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £117m £14m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £52m £4m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 7.1bn –
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 100t –
Our 2007 results include six months contribution for Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired on 2 April 2007.
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
367bn 379bn
Market size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
10,000t 9,100t
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
3.7% –
Imperial Tobacco market share: 1.0% –
ﬁne cut tobacco
1
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Market Dynamics
The US is the world’s second largest
cigarette market by volume after China,
accounting for a signiﬁcant percentage of
the tobacco industry global proﬁts. In 2007,
we estimate that the overall cigarette
market declined by 3 per cent to 367 billion
cigarettes (2006: 379 billion), with the
discount sector accounting for around 27
per cent of the total cigarette market. 
The other tobacco products sector is
dominated by smokeless tobacco products
which account for approximately 60 per
cent of the market. Cigars and cigarillos
account for 30 per cent, with ﬁne cut
tobacco and pipe tobacco the remaining 10
per cent. We estimate that the ﬁne cut
tobacco market grew 10 per cent to 10,000
tonnes (2006: 9,100 tonnes). 
Legislation proposing an increase in federal
excise tax on tobacco has been unsuccessful,
but debate on this issue continues. A bill that
and Sonoma holding 8.2 per cent and
4.8 per cent of the discount cigarette
sector respectively.
We have an existing strong presence 
in rolling papers and tubes, which grew
volumes by 13 per cent and 8 per cent
respectively in the year. In July 2007, we
completed the purchase of the Bali Shag
and McClintock ﬁne cut tobacco brands
from Peter Stokkebye. Prior to this,
Commonwealth Brands was the exclusive
distributor of these two brands, which 
have a combined market share of around 
1 per cent of the ﬁne cut tobacco market.
We continue to progress our own Master
Settlement Agreement application and have
had very constructive dialogue with the
National Association of Attorneys General
and representatives from several settling
states. We expect to complete our application
in a few weeks.
The integration of our existing 
rolling papers and tubes business with
Commonwealth Brands has progressed
well, with our New Jersey sales and
marketing operations transferring to the
Commonwealth Brands ofﬁce in Bowling
Green, Kentucky.
Outlook
We have ﬁnalised plans for the launch of our
brands and are in a position to begin their
roll out once we have completed all aspects
of becoming a Participating Manufacturer in
the Master Settlement Agreement.
We believe we are well positioned to
develop our business in the US with our
versatile, multi-product portfolio and an
enhanced platform from which to launch
our brands and products. 
would give the Food & Drug Administration
authority to regulate tobacco products is also
being debated. In recent times, we have
seen considerable improvements in the
litigation environment, reﬂecting the fact that
the great majority of individual and class action
claims have been decided in favour of the
tobacco industry.
Our Performance
Including six months contribution for
Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired
on 2 April 2007, net revenue for the year was
£117 million (2006: £14 million), with adjusted
proﬁt from operations £52 million (2006: 
£4 million). 
Cigarette volumes were 7.1 billion, 
with our cigarette market share at 3.7 per
cent of the total cigarette market and at
13.4 per cent in the discount sector. The
Commonwealth brand portfolio is focused
on the discount sector with USA Gold 24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Rest of the World
The diversity of this region provides opportunities for us to continue to
expand our business and grow our brands and profits.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £1,128m £1,101m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £295m £252m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 130.3bn 123.5bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 2,550t 2,000t
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to
‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for
2006 have been re-stated accordingly. Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business
have been re-classiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘United States’ as the United States segment has been
introduced following the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
Imperial Tobacco Cigarette Market Shares
1
2007 2006
Australia 17.5% 17.8%
Ivory Coast 83.3% 83.5%
Poland 16.9% 16.1%
Russia 5.5% 5.5%
Taiwan 11.7% 11.1%
Saudi Arabia 7.0% 5.1%
Ukraine 20.6% 19.0%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Our Performance
Net revenue was up at £1,128 million, with
adjusted proﬁt from operations growing
17 per cent to £295 million despite foreign
exchange losses. This proﬁt performance
reﬂects our growing cigarette volumes,
further geographic expansion and share
gains we have achieved in a number of
markets in the region.
Asia
In Asia, we have a strong presence in
Taiwan complemented by a growing
presence in Laos and Vietnam, while 
in China we continue to develop our
collaboration with the State Tobacco
Monopoly Administration and the Yuxi
Hongta Group. In Taiwan, we grew our
market share to 11.7 per cent, with a good
performance from West adding to our
Davidoff market share. We delivered 22 per
cent volume growth in Laos and increased
our market share in Vietnam to 10.6 per
cent. In China, our volumes of West and
Davidoff have grown with increased
distribution in additional cities.
Australasia
In the highly regulated mature markets of
Australia and New Zealand, we improved
proﬁtability with the beneﬁt of price increases,
despite the value segment of the cigarette
sector becoming increasingly competitive. Our
market shares were down in Australia to 17.5
per cent (2006: 17.8 per cent), and broadly
stable in New Zealand at 17.5 per cent.
Central Europe
In Central Europe, important markets 
in this region include Poland, Hungary,
Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia and the 
Czech Republic supported by our 
growing Scandinavian operations. 
We have improved our regional
proﬁtability and increased our cigarette
market shares in a number of markets
including the Czech Republic and Poland.
Brand highlights include Moon in the Czech
Republic, Golden Gate in Hungary and
Slovakia, JPS in Austria and West in
Slovenia and Poland. The EU accession
countries in this region have rising taxes as
they work towards reaching EU minimum
tax levels by the end of their derogation
periods. In this environment, ﬁne cut
tobacco has grown, with our regional
volumes doubling during the year.
In Scandinavia, we have made progress
in developing our snus position growing 
our volumes by 46 per cent. Following our
acquisition of Tremaco in Estonia in January
2007, we have introduced a number of 
our own brands, while in Norway we have
grown our cigarette market share to 3.5 per
cent with growth in Davidoff, Paramount
and West. 
Eastern Europe
In Eastern Europe, alongside our established
positions in Ukraine and Russia we have
growing operations in Turkey and the
Caucasus. Regional cigarette volumes
continued to grow strongly. In Russia while
our market share was stable at 5.5 per cent,
Davidoff improved its performance. In Ukraine,
our volumes increased and our market share
continued its upward trend to 20.6 
per cent (2006: 19.0 per cent), with volume
increases for major brands particularly
Classic, West and Davidoff. In Turkey,
our market share has grown to 2.5 per cent
and our volumes have risen by 85 per cent,
with strong growth in West, Klasik and www.imperial-tobacco.com 25
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Davidoff. In the Caucasus, we delivered
signiﬁcant volume increases with good
performances from West, Davidoff and R1. 
Africa and the Middle East
We have an established presence in the
sub-Saharan region of Africa and in the
Middle East, where Davidoff is our leading
brand. Our market shares grew in a number
of markets across the region including
Senegal with growth in Excellence,
Madagascar with Good Look performing
well, Burkina Faso with Mustang and the
Ivory Coast with Fine.
In the Middle East region, Davidoff has
again been driving growth with volumes 
up by 29 per cent and market share gains
across the region including Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and UAE. 
Americas and Duty Free
We are focused on building our presence
into other markets in the Americas region.
We launched Davidoff into Canada and
West and Davidoff into Mexico.
In duty free, our cigarette volumes 
have remained stable and ﬁne cut tobacco
volumes have grown by 27 per cent. In
particular, we have increased Davidoff’s
presence in duty free following the
introduction of new variants.
Outlook
With over 100 countries in our Rest 
of the World region it is a key area of future
investment and potential growth for the
Group. In the context of the challenges
that the geographic diversity of this region
brings, we believe there is considerable
scope for continued market and
brand development. 
We seek to deliver further cost savings
across our manufacturing footprint, 
and this year delivered £33 million of
savings from a variety of initiatives
including ongoing business simpliﬁcation
and continued cost management.
Our Performance
We increased our productivity by
7 per cent, with higher cigarette 
volumes contributing to our improved
performance. We also reduced our 
unit costs in both cigarette and ﬁne 
cut tobacco, by 3 and 13 per cent
respectively. In addition, we have further
simpliﬁed our blends and ingredients
in the year.
We aim to ensure that our
manufacturing footprint is structured
effectively, to ensure a fast response 
to changing market dynamics and
consumer requirements. In order 
to meet growing demand in Eastern
Europe, we have increased the
capacity at both our Volgograd and
Kiev factories with the installation 
of new and upgraded machinery. We
have also added cigarette and other
tobacco product machinery in
Germany, in support of new product
initiatives. The closures of our factories
in Liverpool in the UK and Lahr in
Germany were completed on schedule
by the end of March 2007. 
In March 2007, we announced our
plans to build a factory in Taiwan at 
a cost of £45 million which will aid the
further development of our presence 
in Asia. We expect to generate annual
cost savings of £20 million from 2010
as a result of a reduction in supply
chain costs and other operational
efﬁciencies, with the factory planned 
to be fully operational by the end of 
our 2008 ﬁnancial year.
We gained further ISO14001
accreditation in the year with
Madagascar and Burkina Faso
bringing the total number of factories
certiﬁed to 21 or 68 per cent of our
manufacturing operations.
We constantly review potential
standardisation opportunities and 
have delivered further operational
efﬁciencies. Our progress has been
reﬂected in the improvements in our
manufacturing performance indicators. 
Outlook
We are focused on the quality of
our products and on the continuing
success of our simpliﬁcation and
standardisation strategies, while
ensuring we remain responsive and
ﬂexible to changes in market and
regulatory conditions.
Manufacturing
We have a consistent approach across our 31 factories,
enabling our simpliﬁcation and standardisation strategy to deliver
performance improvements, without compromising on quality.  26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Operating Review continued
Cost efficiency
We are focused on the quality of our products and on the continuing success
of our simpliﬁcation and standardisation strategies, while ensuring we
remain responsive and ﬂexible to changes in market conditions.
Manufacturing Excellence
We have a consistent approach across our 
31 factories enabling us to deliver performance
improvements, without compromising on quality.
“We have again delivered
excellent productivity gains
and cost progress.”
David Cresswell
Manufacturing Director www.imperial-tobacco.com 27
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Overall productivity up by
7%
Increased Productivity
We increased our productivity by 7 per cent,
with higher cigarette volumes contributing to
our improved performance.
Continued Investment
Our investment in manufacturing has increased this year,
with construction of our new factory in Taiwan underway
and other initiatives in Russia, Ukraine and Germany.
Our manufacturing assets worldwide
22
Cigarette factories
6
Other tobacco 
product factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes 
factories 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Corporate Responsibility
Directors’ Report: Business Review
We believe we can beneﬁt our shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers,
consumers and the communities in which we operate by running our 
business responsibly.
A responsible approach
Our Strategy
Our strategy is to embed the principles 
of Corporate Responsibility into our
business processes and control systems.
This enables high standards of corporate
behaviour throughout our business 
and is demonstrated by our 
performance improvements.
Performance: Overview and Progress
In 2005, we set a number of performance
objectives across four areas: corporate
responsibility management, product
stewardship, occupational health safety 
and environmental management and social
performance which were to be met by
2007. We have met, or partially met, all 
of our objectives, with notable success 
in environmental management where we
achieved all our objectives ahead of schedule.
We believe that the systems we have in
place to manage our corporate responsibility
activities are appropriate. This will assist us
in fulﬁling our duty to promote the success
of the company, as outlined in the
Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Responsibility Management:
we have processes in place to manage our
most signiﬁcant Corporate Responsibility
issues. We have implemented a non-ﬁnancial
reporting system which enables us to
External Assessment
Our performance is reﬂected in our progress in the indices by which we benchmark
ourselves against other leading companies.
Index 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
SAM for DOW Jones – 30%* 39%* 40%* 66% 73% 73%
BITC – Corporate Responsibility – – – 54%* 86% 91% –
BITC – Environment 49% 77% 79% 83% 90% 95% –
* Informal, off-line participation scores.
> In the assessment conducted by
SAM Research for the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index 2007, our overall
score was again 73 per cent
compared with a sector average 
of 44 per cent (66 per cent in 2005)
> In the Business in the Community
Corporate Responsibility Index, 
we improved our performance from
86 per cent in the previous year 
to 91 per cent and were awarded 
a ‘Gold’ ranking
> In the Business in the Community
Environment Index we also received 
a ‘Platinum’ ranking of 95 per cent 
for our performance
> We were short-listed for the ﬁrst
Financial Times / Citi Private Bank
Environmental Award ‘Meeting the
Carbon Challenge’. We were selected
amongst the top six international
companies for the improvement 
we have made in carbon efﬁciency 
in Europe, Asia and Africa
> We were also rated 70 per cent in the
2007 Carbon Disclosure Project Index
compared to a food and beverage
sector average of 63 per cent  www.imperial-tobacco.com 29
Directors’ Report: Business Review
regularly review our activities and progress.
None of the Corporate Responsibility issues
we had previously identiﬁed as potentially
material risks in our Corporate Responsibility
Reviews had a material impact in the
reported year. 
Product Stewardship: we have implemented
further standards for product stewardship
and ingredient assessments. We have also
made provisions to meet the regulatory
requirements of the EU Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemicals Regulation.
Environmental Management and
Occupational Health and Safety: in 2006,
our energy consumption was down by 13
per cent
1
(2005: down by 11 per cent)
1
and
our carbon dioxide emissions were down
by 21 per cent
1
(2005: down by 20 per
cent)
1
. We also made progress in reducing
our waste output, our waste to landﬁll and
our water consumption. 
In the area of occupational health and
safety our lost time accident rates remained
stable during 2006. We operate in some
difﬁcult regions of the world and take our
responsibilities regarding the personal
security of our employees seriously.
However, during the year regrettably there
were four fatalities. A sales employee and
two security guards were assaulted and
murdered by armed militia in Africa in two
separate incidents and a fatal accident
occurred to a contractor at one of our 
UK factories, when he was crushed by 
his own vehicle. 
Social Performance: we invested £1.7
million in community activities to respond 
to local community needs and to encourage
employee activities in the communities 
in which we operate. We continued to
develop our social responsibility in tobacco
production programme involving our
suppliers and generally, a good level 
of risk management is evident. 
Further information on our performance
objectives and our progress is published 
in our Corporate Responsibility Review 
in December. 
1
Absolute values for ﬁnancial year 2006 compared with 2001 base year.
Our Five Priorities for the Next Five Years
We have ﬁve key areas of focus for our Corporate
Responsibility activities over the next ﬁve years. 
These are:
We are committed to further improvements 
in carbon management, through energy
conservation, lower carbon technologies 
and carbon offsetting.
We are committed to further improvements 
in how we manage our product portfolio
to achieve an appropriate balance between
product stewardship, regulatory demand and
the needs and preferences of our consumers.
We will continue to work with our suppliers 
to improve their economic, social and
environmental standards.
We will aim for accountability, training and
expertise to ensure a more effective local
response to Corporate Responsibility issues.
We are aiming to increase transparency that
our policies and standards are routinely and
universally observed.
Carbon
Management
Portfolio
Balance
Supplier
Standards
Local
Accountability
Policy
Evidence
In addition, we will continue our activities in the areas of occupational health,
safety and environment and community investment, as well as continuing to
develop our management systems.
Independent Veriﬁer’s Statement 
on Corporate Responsibility
The information and performance data in
our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review
has been veriﬁed by SGS United Kingdom
Limited, to determine its accuracy and
reliability and to give an opinion on our
Corporate Responsibility performance
reporting. This opinion can be found in their
assurance statement in the Review. This
year we have increased the scope and
depth of the assurance in line with the
Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines.
SGS have evaluated our Corporate
Responsibility Reporting against G3,
and in their view, our disclosure is at
level B+. The maximum achievable level 
is A+.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr 30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Directors’ Report:  Governance www.imperial-tobacco.com 31
Directors’ Report: Governance
32 Board of Directors and Chief Executive’s Committee
34 Report of the Directors
37 Corporate Governance Report
48 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Report
Governance
Directors’ Report: Governance 32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Board of Directors
Directors’ Report: Governance
The right team
Name: 1. Iain Napier, FCMA
Title & Age Chairman, 58
Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007
Non-Executive Director from March 2000
Committee Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member of the
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Chief 
experience Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass Brewers and Bass
International Brewers. He was then Vice President UK and
Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001. He was Chief
Executive of Taylor Woodrow International Housing and
Development from 2001 to 2005
External Currently Non-Executive Chairman and Director of McBride 
appointments PLC, Collins Stewart PLC and Tomkins PLC
12 3 4 5 6 7 8
Board of Directors
Name: 4. Graham Blashill, BSC
Title & Age Group Sales and Marketing Director, 60
Appointment Appointed to the Board, October 2005
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing activities.
experience With over 39 years’ experience with the Group he has held a
number of senior sales and marketing positions, including
Managing Director UK and Regional Director for 
Western Europe
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 3. Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA
Title & Age Finance Director, 54
Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Limited 
experience from November 1989 and one of the three-man Hanson team
involved in the strategic reorganisation of the Group. Since then
he has played an integral part in shaping the strategic direction
of the Group
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 2. Gareth Davis, BA
Title & Age Chief Executive, 57
Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Gareth led the successful Hanson demerger and subsequent 
experience listings on the London and New York Stock Exchanges. With 35
years experience across all aspects of the Company, he has played
a key role in the development of general strategy and the Group’ s
ongoing expansion programme
External Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003
appointments
Name: 5. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA
Title & Age Corporate Development Director, 41
Appointment Appointed to the Board, July 2007
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Alison has responsibility for strategic planning and business 
experience development, as well as for Corporate Affairs. Alison joined the
Group in 1999 and has held a number of senior roles including
Director of Finance and Planning and Director of Rest of Western
Europe. Previously she was with PricewaterhouseCoopers
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 7. Anthony Alexander, FCA
Title & Age Vice Chairman, 69
Appointment Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger in October 1996
Committee Nominations Committee
membership
Skills and Anthony was appointed Vice Chairman on demerger with 
experience Hanson in 1996. Previously he was an Executive Director of
Hanson PLC with responsibility for all UK operating companies
while serving as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 6. David Cresswell, C ENG, MIEE
Title & Age Manufacturing Director, 62
Appointment Appointed to the Board, June 2003
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and David has undertaken a number of senior management 
experience roles across the Group. An electrical engineer by background
he has previously held the position of Managing Director for
each of Imperial Tobacco’s major operating divisions, namely
cigarette, rolling papers and roll your own tobacco
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 8. Pierre Jungels, CBE (HON), C ENG, PHD
Title & Age Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 63
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, August 2002
Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member
membership of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee
Skills and Pierre has held numerous senior international positions 
experience within the oil industry with Shell International, Petroﬁna SA 
and British Gas PLC. He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in
1996, leading the business to substantial geographic and
ﬁnancial growth until retirement in November 2001
External Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of Baker 
appointments Hughes Inc., Non-Executive Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon
Mapping plc and Rockhopper Exploration PLC and a Non-
Executive Director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd www.imperial-tobacco.com 33
Directors’ Report: Governance
910 11 12 13 14 15 16
Name: 13. Mark Williamson, CA (SA)
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 49
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, July 2007
Committee Chairman of Audit Committee; and Member of the
membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee
Skills and Mark has considerable international ﬁnancial and general 
experience management experience. He joined International Power in 2000
as Group Financial Controller and was appointed to the Board
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 2003. Previously, he was Group
Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Simon
Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals storage group
External Currently serves on the Board of International Power
appointments
Name: 9. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 55
Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, April 2006
Committee Nominations Committee
membership
Skills and Ken was President, Asia Paciﬁc of Allied Domecq from 
experience 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005. Prior 
to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior management positions
in the Asia Paciﬁc region with Seagram, Interbrew and
International Distillers & Vintners Ltd (now part of Diageo plc)
External Currently serves on the Board of ID Lanka Ltd
appointments
Name: 11. Charles Knott, FCMA
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 52
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, April 2006
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007
experience Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, ICI’s 
ﬂavours and fragrances business. Previously fulﬁlled a variety 
of international assignments as a long term executive at 
National Starch, a Unilever company until 1997
External Currently CEO of Flint Group 
appointments
Name: 12. Susan Murray
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 50
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, December 2004
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited from 
experience October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief Executive 
of Littlewoods Stores Limited. Prior to this she was worldwide
President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company,
a part of Diageo plc
External Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL International
appointments PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group
PLC. Previously Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset
Management PLC. Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts 
and council member of the Advertising Standards Authority
Name: 10. Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), Solicitor
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 54
Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, July 2007 
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Michael was formerly Company Secretary, General Counsel
experience and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall
responsibility for corporate acquisitions and divestments and
has extensive experience of both private and public market
transactions
External Currently serves on the Board of Compass Partners 
appointments International LLP 
Name: 14. Matthew Phillips, LLB
Title & Age Company Secretary, 37
Appointment Appointed Company Secretary, October 2004
Committee Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary to and 
membership Member of the Chief Executive’s Committee; Secretary to the
Audit and Remuneration Committees 
Skills and Matthew joined Imperial Tobacco’s legal department in 
experience 2000 and was closely involved in negotiations for the
acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma. Previously 
he worked for law ﬁrms Linklaters and Burges Salmon
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Company Secretary
Name: 15. Kathryn Turner
Title & Age Group Human Resources Director, 52
Appointment Appointed Group Human Resources Director in 2002
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Kathryn is responsible for all aspects of human resource 
experience management across the Group. She joined in 2002 from
Somerﬁeld PLC, where she was a member of the PLC Board.
She has also held a number of senior operational consulting 
roles in change management in the FMCG sector
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 16. Gary Aldridge, MBA
Title & Age Manufacturing Director Designate, 54
Appointment 1 January 2008
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Gary will succeed David Cresswell as Manufacturing 
experience Director on 1 January 2008. Gary was Regional Operations
Director Far East, Eastern Europe, Africa and Middle East.
Previously, he was Director of Operations, Central and Eastern
Europe. He held a number of senior manufacturing roles in 
RJ Reynolds International before joining Reemtsma in 2001
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Chief Executive’s Committee Directors’ Report: Governance
Report of the Directors 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 34 
The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and the accounts of the 
Company for the year to 30 September 2007. 
Business Review 
The Group remains focused on its core business: the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. 
A review of the Group’s activities and future developments is included in the Business Review section on pages 5 to 29. This review 
fulfils the requirements of the Business Review contained in section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, including the financial 
performance during the year on pages , key performance indicators on page and a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group on pages rs of 
the Company. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person 
to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. The 
Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Company and the Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances  
can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown on pages 117 and 118. 
Financial Results and Dividends 
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was £905 million as shown in the consolidated income 
statement set out on page . Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of revenue, duty and similar items, profit from 
operations and net assets. 
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: 
(In £’s million) 2007 2006 
Ordinary Shares   
Interim paid, 21.0p per share (2006: 18.5p) 141 127 
Proposed final, 48.5p per share (2006: 43.5p) 326 293 
Total ordinary dividends, 69.5p (2006: 62.0p) 467 42 
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 15 February 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at  
the close of business on 18 January 2008. The associated ex-dividend date is 16 January 2008. The interim dividend was paid on  
10 August 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 July 2007. 
Share Capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital are shown in note 20 to the financial statements. To ensure the effective use of the cash the 
Group generates, at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 30 January 2007 shareholder authority for the buyback of up  
to 72,900,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each was renewed. During the year the Company continued its share buyback programme 
purchasing 5,713,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a total cost of £105 million inclusive of 
transaction costs. These shares represent 0.78 per cent of issued share capital and have an aggregate nominal value of £571,300. In 
total 51,717,000 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £5,171,700 have been purchased, have not been cancelled but are 
held in a treasury shares reserve within the profit and loss account reserve and represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. 
The share buyback programme was suspended on 8 February 2007 following the agreement to purchase Commonwealth Brands. 
At an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) on 13 August 2007, the Company’s authorised share capital was increased from 
£100,000,000 to £5,604,000,000 by the creation of an additional 55,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each. 
At 25 October 2007 the Company had been notified that the following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the Company’s 
issued share capital. 
 
Number of 
ordinary 
shares millions 
Percentage of 
issued 
share capital 
Amvescap plc 39 5.84 
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited 38 5.63 
Barclays PLC 36 5.29 
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 34 5.03 
Vanguard Windsor II Fund 28 4.09 
Lloyds TSB Group plc 24 3.57 
Franklin Resources, Inc 22 3.00 
The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital. 
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons are shown on page . 
14 and 15 13
12 and 13. The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the membe
68
0
54 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 35
Board of Directors 
Mrs A J Cooper joined the Board as Corporate Development Director on 1 July 2007. Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson also 
joined the Board on 1 July 2007 as Non-Executive Directors.  
The Directors of the Company for the year to 30 September 2007 are shown on pages 32 and 33. Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus and  
Ms S E Murray retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. As part of the Board Evaluation 
Process the contributions to the Board of Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus and Ms S E Murray were assessed and the Board confirms 
that they continue to be effective Directors. Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson, having been appointed 
during the year, retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election. 
Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007, Mr C R Day resigned from the Board with effect from 16 February 2007 
and Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board with effect from 2 June 2007. Dr Rogerson remains an employee within the Group  
and his employment will terminate on 27 June 2008. 
As previously announced, Mr D Cresswell and Mr A G L Alexander have confirmed to the Board that they intend to retire on  
31 December 2007 and 29 January 2008 respectively.  
Assuming the proposed acquisition of Altadis is completed, Imperial Tobacco intends to add appropriate representation from Altadis to 
the Board. This will include offering Mr A Vázquez, currently Altadis’ CEO, an executive position on the Board as CEO of the enlarged 
group’s cigar and logistics businesses. Mr J-D Comolli, currently Altadis’ Chairman, will also be invited to become non-executive 
Deputy Chairman and provide certain consultancy services. In addition, the Altadis board will be requested to submit one of its current 
non-executive directors so that he can be invited to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director (subject to the approval of the 
Nominations Committee).  
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope 
which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. 
Employees 
The Group’s employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can  
be achieved only through offering equal opportunities and fair consideration to applications for employment, career development  
and promotion regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability. These policies also cover the continuation of employment and 
appropriate training for employees who become disabled during their period of employment. 
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, links 
rewards to individual and team performance. Employees are encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC shares. A further opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan was offered during the year and 38 per cent of eligible 
employees around the world now participate. 
The Group is committed to providing an environment that encourages the continuous development of all its employees through skills 
enhancement and training programmes. 
Using their own consultative and communication methods each of the Group’s businesses is encouraged to keep its employees 
informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of their employing company. To progress this aim further, employee representatives are briefed on pan-
European issues through a European Employee Forum. The Group’s financial results and important initiatives are communicated 
through a number of mechanisms including company magazines, electronic updates, presentations, face-to-face briefings and the 
Group’s Intranet. 
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Charitable and Political Donations 
During the year the Group made charitable donations of £2.0m of which £0.2m was in respect of the UK (2006: £1.0m, of which  
£0.7m was in respect of the UK), much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Group’s 
charities policy. 
No political donations were made to EU political parties or organisations (2006: nil). 
Creditor Payment Policy 
The Company’s current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBI’s Prompt Payers Code 
(copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU). For other suppliers, the Company’s 
policy is to: 
a) agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction; 
b) ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and 
c) pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations. 
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception. 
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies,  
by applying local best practices. 
7 Directors’ Report: Governance
Report of the Directors continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 36 
The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2007 was equivalent to 30 days (2006: 30 days) of trade purchases. 
Research and Development 
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, 
both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques. 
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors 
Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Report confirms that: 
 so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information (that is, information needed by the Company’s Auditors in connection 
with preparing their report) of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and  
 they have each taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting 
Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 January 2008, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this Report. 
By order of the Board 
 
Matthew R Phillips 
Company Secretary  
31 October 2007 
  Corporate Governance Report 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 37
The Board of Directors (the Board) remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it sees as  
a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities. 
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions and Compliance 
Throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with the governance 
rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the Code) which was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003, with the exception of Code provision A.3.2. 
This provision specifies that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined  
by the Board to be independent. This non compliance, from 2
 
January 2007, resulted from the Board’s decision to retain Mr A G L 
Alexander on the Board to ensure continuity at senior Board level during the Chairman’s early tenure and the resignation of Mr C R  
Day as a consequence of his overall business commitments. As planned the Board regained compliance on 1 July 2007 following the 
appointment of two additional independent Non-Executive Directors, Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson. Full details relating  
to the structure of the Board are given on page 38. The Code was further revised in 2006 (the 2006 Code). As the Company has 
adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early it was technically in breach of the 2003 Code provision B.2.1 as, since his 
appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier has remained a member of the Remuneration Committee (as permitted under the 2006 Code). 
As Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), the Group is 
also required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the requirements of section 404. The Group 
has, however, taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within 
Commonwealth Brands during its first year since acquisition. 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Group’s standard of governance and this Report, together with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, have been and 
continue to be applied in practice within the Group.  
During the course of the financial year the Board and its Audit Committee have continued to keep under review the Group’s entire 
system of internal control, encompassing both financial and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk management. Based 
on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place across the Group.  
Throughout the Group, formal procedures, including well established and embedded internal controls, have been and continue to be 
maintained. Such procedures, together with continued regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance 
of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant areas of risk to 
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. Any weaknesses identified have a plan of remedial action, progress against which  
is regularly reported to the Audit Committee.  
During the course of the year business reviews of the Group’s operations and reviews performed in conformance with section 404 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been performed as part of the Group Compliance Function’s programme of activity. This has highlighted 
a small number of controls requiring minor remediation work which is currently being completed. 
From reports to the Group Compliance Function by the business operations of any potential instances of fraud or accounting irregularity 
that may have occurred during the financial year, the Audit Committee concluded that neither individually nor collectively did they have  
a material impact on the results or performance of the Group for the financial year. 
Update on Ongoing Enquiries 
Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations by a 
number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group. In the course  
of 2005, parts of the investigations into certain of the individuals were terminated on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities 
and settlement was made of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities being investigated at no cost to the Imperial 
Tobacco Group. In 2006 and 2007, investigations against some of the other individuals were terminated for lack of evidence. Charges 
relating to smuggling have been brought in connection with one of the investigations against 18 individuals, one of whom is a former 
Reemtsma employee. Charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act have been brought against four other former 
Reemtsma employees in connection with a separate investigation. In connection with some of these charges, the authorities have 
applied for financial penalties to be imposed on Reemtsma. Such penalties could be imposed if the former employees who have been 
charged are ultimately found to have committed offences. In those circumstances, the Imperial Tobacco Group would seek recovery  
of any losses under arrangements made on the acquisition of the business. 
A Board Committee established in 2003 under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander remains in place to monitor the progress of the 
investigations and the Group’s responses on behalf of the Board. The German authorities’ investigations are based on alleged activities 
prior to the Group’s acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been 
involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the German authorities. 
As previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial Tobacco Group and a number of other companies to the UK Office of  
Fair Trading (the OFT) in October 2003 in relation to an OFT investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain. Further 
information was supplied in April 2005 but to date no substantive response to any of the information submitted has been received from 
the OFT. The OFT’s investigation is ongoing. 
Directors’ Report: Governance Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 38 
If the OFT were to decide that there are grounds for an infringement decision against the Imperial Tobacco Group, it would first issue  
a Statement of Objections setting out its preliminary findings and the evidential and legal basis for those findings. Imperial Tobacco 
would then have an opportunity to respond to these preliminary findings. If the OFT were subsequently to make an infringement finding, 
Imperial Tobacco Group would be able to appeal the OFT’s infringement decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal and ultimately, on 
a point of law to the Court of Appeal. The OFT has not as yet issued a Statement of Objections or announced an intention to do so and 
as such Imperial Tobacco Group is unable to predict the outcome of this investigation. 
However, in the event that the OFT decides that a company has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a fine. The amount of the 
fine is calculated by reference to the turnover of the infringing company. The rules regarding the maximum amount of such a penalty 
changed on 1 May 2004. Before that date, the maximum amount of a fine was 10 per cent of a company’s UK turnover for up to three 
years. In the three years to 30 September 2003 Imperial Tobacco Group’s aggregate net UK turnover was £2,215 million. Under the 
revised rules, a fine may not exceed 10 per cent of a company’s worldwide turnover. However, the OFT’s guidelines state that where an 
infringement ended before 1 May 2004, the fine may not exceed the maximum penalty under the old rules. In either case, the applicable 
turnover on which the amount of a fine is based expressly excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which Imperial 
Tobacco Group has been advised would also exclude duty. In addition, if the OFT were to make an infringement finding, it could issue 
orders prohibiting that activity in the future, whilst the Company might face the prospect of damages actions from third parties. 
Board and Board Committees 
 
Board Structure 
The Board of Directors, which met nine times during the year (with two of the meetings having a duration of two days), currently 
comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Director not classified  
as independent for the purposes of the Code when determining the composition of the Board or its Committees, and five  
Executive Directors.  
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, Mr I J G Napier, and the Chief Executive, Mr G Davis, to ensure an appropriate 
balance of power and authority. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the whole Board with the Chief Executive, in 
conjunction with the Chief Executive’s Committee, responsible for managing the Group and implementing the strategy and policies 
which have been set by the Board. 
Mr A G L Alexander is Vice Chairman and Dr P H Jungels is the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any 
concerns can be conveyed by shareholders. 
Following the annual Board evaluation and consideration of all other relevant factors contained in the Code and the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) Corporate Governance rules, the Board concluded at its meeting in September 2007 that all Non-Executive Directors 
continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question management objectively and robustly 
and at all times to have the best interests of the Group in mind and that, taking account of these factors, together with the other 
relevant factors contained in the Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance rules, all eight Non-Executive Directors (including the 
Chairman) remain independent for the purposes of the NYSE Corporate Governance rules and all seven Non-Executive Directors 
(excluding the Chairman as required by the Code) remain independent for the purposes of the Code. 
However, recognising the general external focus under the Code on directors who have served in excess of nine years the Company 
has not, since September 2006, classified Mr A G L Alexander (for the purposes of the Code) as an independent Director when 
determining the composition of the Board and its Committees. As announced previously, Mr A G L Alexander will remain on the Board 
until the Company’s 2008 Annual General Meeting. Mr A G L Alexander is not a member of any of the Board Committees other than  
the Nominations Committee.  
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of those directors who have appointments on boards of 
companies outside the Group. Where necessary, the Board ensures appropriate processes are in place to manage any possible conflict 
of interest. 
The Directors’ biographies, appearing on pages  and , demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and the wider 
Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with a range of business and financial experience which is vital to the management of 
an expanding international company. The biographies also include details of any other major directorships. 
Board Changes 
During the year the Nominations Committee again reviewed the composition and balance of the Board. This review took into account 
not only the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience of Board members but also of the wider provisions of the Code and  
the results of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors. 
Following this review the Nominations Committee produced two role profiles for an external search consultancy to identify suitable non-
executive director candidates with relevant strong financial and regulatory / legal backgrounds. Subsequently Messrs M D Williamson, 
currently the Chief Financial Officer of International Power PLC, and M H C Herlihy, formerly General Counsel of ICI PLC, joined the Board 
on 1 July 2007 as Non-Executive Directors, having been identified as meeting the relevant criteria. The Nominations Committee also 
identified Mrs A J Cooper as a suitable candidate to join the Board as it continues to focus on the strategic development of the business. 
32 33 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 39
As announced last year, Mr I J G Napier succeeded Mr D C Bonham as Chairman on 2 January 2007. Prior to this appointment  
a role profile of the competences, experience and time commitment required by any potential candidate for the position of Chairman 
was produced by the Nominations Committee. It was determined by the Nominations Committee that Mr I J G Napier’s skills  
and experience so closely matched this profile that it was unlikely that a more suitable candidate would be found by conducting an 
external search or undertaking open advertising. During all discussions of the Chairman’s succession, the Nominations Committee  
was chaired by Mr A G L Alexander and once Mr I J G Napier had been identified as a potential candidate he was excluded from  
all such discussions.  
The Board accepted Mr C R Day’s resignation, as a consequence of his overall business commitments, with effect from  
16 February 2007 and that of Dr F A Rogerson, for personal and private reasons, with effect from 27 June 2007.  
As previously announced, Messrs D Cresswell and A G L Alexander have confirmed to the Board that they intend to retire on  
31 December 2007 and 29 January 2008 respectively.  
Mr I J G Napier met with a number of key shareholders during the year. The opportunity also exists for major shareholders to meet  
with new and existing Directors. In addition, Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders after the formal business of  
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) had been completed. 
Structure of the Board and Board Committees 
 
 
Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Executive Directors     
G Davis Member – – – 
R Dyrbus Member – – – 
G L Blashill Member – – – 
A J Cooper Member – – – 
D Cresswell Member – – – 
Non-Executive Directors     
I J G Napier Chairman  – Member Chairman 
A G L Alexander  Vice Chairman  – – Member 
K M Burnett Member – – Member 
M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member 
P H Jungels – Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member 
C F Knott Member Member Member Member 
S E Murray Member Member Member Member 
M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member 
Performance Evaluation 
During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally reviewed and 
evaluated its own performance together with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors. The approach for these reviews 
was refreshed this year and they were conducted by way of detailed questionnaires, completed by the Directors, followed by one to one 
interviews between each Director and the external consultant. Feedback on individual Directors was discussed with the Chairman and 
this in turn was followed by private feedback meetings between the Chairman and each of the Directors. A report on the performance  
of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was made to the Board at its meetings in September and October 2007. 
Dr P H Jungels, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, met with the Non-Executive Directors as a group, without the 
Chairman present, to consider the performance of the Chairman. After also taking account of the views of the Executive Directors and 
the results of the Chairman’s formal performance evaluation, Mr A G L Alexander held a private feedback meeting with the Chairman. 
The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the 
Executive Directors in the discharge of their duties. 
Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively and that, 
notwithstanding the continued changes in Board membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity. No fundamental issues or 
training needs that require addressing were identified and the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors has sufficient 
time, knowledge and commitment to contribute effectively to the Board and its Committees. Accordingly, the Board recommends that 
Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus, together with Ms S E Murray should stand for re-election and that Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C 
Herlihy and M D Williamson should stand for election at the 2008 AGM. 
The key theme which emerged from this year’s evaluation was, notwithstanding the recent Board changes, the high level of 
cohesion
 
between the Board members and the need to ensure the continuation of this cohesiveness in the future. 
positive  Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 40 
The key theme as identified in the 2006 evaluation was the need to ensure the Board continues to maintain an appropriate balance 
between strategic matters and those relating to governance and the wider industry, and these were addressed during the year with  
the appointment of Mrs A J Cooper as Corporate Development Director and an increased focus on strategic matters at formal Board 
meetings, including a two day Board meeting focused solely on strategy. 
The Board plans to continue to conduct evaluations on an annual basis and may employ alternative formats and approaches in  
future years. 
Board Operations 
The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group and manages overall control of the Group’s affairs by the schedule of 
matters reserved for its decision contained in the Group’s Corporate Manual. These include, inter-alia, responsibility for the Group’s 
commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements and corporate plans, the overall corporate governance framework, acquisitions 
and disposals, treasury, tax and risk management policies and appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for ensuring  
Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with. 
All Directors are equally accountable in law for the proper stewardship of the Group’s affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a 
particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed for the development of the business, resources and standards of conduct 
are critically reviewed using their independent judgement and experience. This ensures that the Board acts in the best long term interests 
of all shareholders, takes account of the wider community of interest represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and that 
environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues are fully integrated into the Group’s risk assessment processes.  
During the year matters considered by the Board included the proposed acquisition of Altadis, the acquisition of Commonwealth 
Brands Inc, the Board changes detailed above, review of the strategy and operating results of the business, approval of annual and 
medium term plans, and review of Group funding arrangements. Actual results of the Group were reviewed at each Board meeting,  
with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods. This ensured that the 
Board was supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner and that at Board Meetings the Directors  
were properly briefed on issues arising. All Board members receive reports from the chairmen of all Board Committees and receive 
copies of each Committee’s minutes. 
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the 
Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee. The membership and remit of each Committee are 
considered below, together with a record of each Director’s attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year. As 
part of the Group’s policy of annual review, the terms of reference for each of these Committees were reviewed during the year and are 
published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.imperial-tobacco.com. They are also available from the Company Secretary.  
The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Group’s expense, and the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties. The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect 
of Directors’ and Officers’ liabilities. The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its 
Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. 
Chief Executive’s Committee 
Over the financial year, the Chief Executive’s Committee, comprising the Executive Directors, the Regional Director – Western Europe 
(who, following appointment as Corporate Development Director, attended as an Executive Director from 1 July 2007), the Group 
Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary, met ten times to ensure appropriate control and management of day-to-day 
business matters. Within the framework of the Chief Executive’s Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business control 
matters to the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive’s Committee, who are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring 
the detailed performance of all aspects of the business. They have full power to act, subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning 
limits laid down by the Board and the Group’s policy guidelines. 
As previously announced Mr G Aldridge will join the Chief Executive’s Committee as Manufacturing Director with effect from 1 January 2008. 
Between formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the Chairman and chairmen of the Board Committees communicate regularly 
with the Chief Executive and other members of the Chief Executive’s Committee.  
s Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 41
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders 
 Board 
Audit
Committee 
Remuneration
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Annual General 
Meeting 
Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
Total number of meetings in 2007 9 4 5 3 1 1 
Number of meetings attended in 2007       
Executive Directors       
Mr G Davis 9/9 – – – 1/1 1/1 
Mr R Dyrbus 9/9 – – – 1/1 1/1 
Mr G L Blashill 9/9 – – – 1/1 1/1 
Mrs A J Cooper
1
 1/1 – – – – 0/1 
Mr D Cresswell 9/9 – – – 1/1 0/1 
Dr F A Rogerson
2
 7/8 – – – 1/1 – 
Non-Executive Directors       
Mr I J G Napier 8/8 1/1 4/4 2/2 1/1 1/1 
Mr D C Bonham
3
 2/2 – – 1/1 – – 
Mr A G L Alexander 9/9 – – 3/3 1/1 0/1 
Dr K M Burnett 8/9 – – 3/3 1/1 0/1 
Mr C R Day
4
 1/3 1/2 – 0/1 0/1 – 
Mr M H C Herlihy
1
 1/1 – – 1/1 – 1/1 
Dr P H Jungels 8/8 4/4 4/5 2/2 1/1 1/1 
Mr C F Knott
 
 9/9 4/4 5/5 3/3 1/1 0/1 
Ms S E Murray 9/9 4/4 5/5 3/3 1/1 1/1 
Mr M D Williamson
1
 1/1 – – 1/1 – 0/1 
1
 Mrs A J Cooper, Mr M H C Herlihy and Mr M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
2
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when 
his employment will terminate. 
3
 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007. 
4
 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007. 
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend. 
Following the retirement of Mr D C Bonham, Mr I J G Napier stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee but in accordance with the 2006 Code remains  
a member of the Committee. 
Remuneration Committee 
The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report which 
appears on page . The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.imperial-
tobacco.com. The Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and signed by  
the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, outlines remuneration strategy and policy, details the Committee’s activities over the 
financial year and contains full details of Directors’ emoluments. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above. 
48 Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 42 
Nominations Committee 
Membership 
The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets on an as required basis. During the year the 
Committee met three times. 
The members of the Committee during the year were: 
 Mr I J G Napier (Chairman from 2 January 2007); 
 Mr A G L Alexander; 
 Mr D C Bonham (Chairman until retirement on 2 January 2007); 
 Dr K M Burnett; 
 Mr C R Day (resigned 16 February 2007); 
 Mr M H C Herlihy (appointed 1 July 2007);  
 Dr P H Jungels; 
 Mr C F Knott; 
 Ms S E Murray; and 
 Mr M D Williamson (appointed 1 July 2007). 
 Mr M R Phillips, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.imperial-tobacco.com. The 
responsibilities of the Committee include the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the 
development of role specifications, the formulation of succession plans and the making of recommendations to the Board with 
regard to the appointment of Directors.  
In the financial year the Committee, after taking into account the Board evaluation and succession plans, produced role profiles for  
two new Non-Executive Directors and following the identification of suitable candidates made a number of recommendations to the 
Board resulting in the appointments as detailed in the Board Changes section above.  
Any Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment. 
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years. Furthermore, it is the 
Company’s practice that any Non-Executive Director, including the Chairman, having been in post for nine years or more is subject  
to annual re-election. The performance of each Director is considered before recommending such election or re-election. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above. 
Induction and Training 
Detailed training and briefing are provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual qualifications 
and experience.  
Following her appointment, arrangements have been made for Mrs A J Cooper to attend a programme at Henley Management College 
focusing on the roles and responsibilities of a listed PLC board director. 
Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson’s induction programmes included meetings with the Group’s Auditors, external lawyers, 
meetings with key Group personnel and site visits. These meetings included briefings on relevant corporate responsibility and corporate 
affairs issues, legal matters, product stewardship, environmental management, social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and 
commercial risk management. 
Ongoing training is made available to all Directors to meet their individual needs. Regular briefings are also provided to Directors on 
relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate governance developments. During the year the Group’s 
external lawyers briefed the Board on topical items of interest, including the implications of the Companies Act 2006. 
Structured training on leadership is also made available to members of the Group’s senior management team via the Imperial  
Leadership Programme. 
The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received briefings from PricewaterhouseCoopers and Hewitts Limited respectively  
to ensure they remain up to date with current regulations and developments.  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 43
Audit Committee 
Membership 
The Audit Committee, which has determined that all its members are independent Non-Executive Directors, met four times during the 
year and members’ attendance is set out in the table on page . 
The members of the Committee during the year were: 
 Mr M D Williamson (chairman from 14 September 2007);  
 Mr C R Day (chairman until resigned from the Board 16 February 2007);  
 Mr M H C Herlihy (from 14 September 2007); 
 Dr P H Jungels; 
 Mr C F Knott (acting chairman 17 February 2007 to 13 September 2007); 
 Ms S E Murray; and 
 Mr I J G Napier (stepped down 2 January 2007 upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company). 
Messrs M D Williamson and C F Knott are qualified accountants and, therefore, are appropriately qualified to discharge the 
responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the Code and 
section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The remaining members of the Committee supply a supporting mix of skills and backgrounds. 
Following the resignation of Mr C R Day, Mr C F Knott acted as chairman of the Committee between 17 February 2007 and  
13 September 2007. 
Mr M R Phillips, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s terms of reference cover the matters recommended by the Code and are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group 
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com. During the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Committee worked with 
a structured agenda of matters focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items 
that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting. These responsibilities included, inter alia: 
 monitoring internal control throughout the Group;  
 approving the Group’s accounting policies;  
 reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, together with the US filing on Form 20-F, prior to submission to the Board;  
 reviewing the scope of the external audit plan and the internal Group Compliance work plan; 
 consideration of any related party matters; 
 review of Auditor performance and independence; 
 consideration of and recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment of the Auditors; 
 review of non-audit fees paid to the Auditors and other accountancy firms; 
 review of the Going Concern statement prior to consideration by the Board;  
 oversight and monitoring of the Group’s Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Policy;  
 the financial integration of Commonwealth Brands Inc; 
 review of Group Compliance performance; and 
 review of risk management systems.  
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above. 
During the year the Head of Group Compliance provided the Committee with detailed reports to facilitate the regular monitoring and 
review of its activities and effectiveness including those in respect of the programmes of activity in place to enable the Group to meet 
the requirements of both the Code and section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  
The Committee undertook its annual review of the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented 
by the Group Compliance Function and confirmed its approval. The Committee continually monitors and critically reviews the authority, 
effectiveness and level of resource allocated to the activity. 
The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other 
financial management were invited to attend each meeting of the Committee. A standing item on each agenda allowed for the Head of 
Group Compliance to meet formally with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager being present, in line with the 
Code’s requirements. 
In addition, the Group’s Auditors attended each meeting of the Committee during the year and, as a standing item on each agenda, 
met with the Committee members without the presence of any Executive Director or other manager, providing a direct line of 
communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors. 
41 Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 44 
Auditor Independence Policy 
The Group regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy, which provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can 
and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired. The policy also establishes a formal authorisation 
process, including the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform, 
establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors and for the recruitment of the 
Group’s employees by the external Auditors. This policy is published on the Group’s website, www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
The Audit Committee also carried out bi-annual reviews of the remuneration received by the Auditors for audit services, audit related 
services and non-audit work with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance with this policy. The 
outcome of these reviews was not only that performance of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was the most cost-effective 
way of conducting the Group’s business but also that no conflict of interest existed between such audit and non-audit work. The fees 
for such non-audit work within the financial year were principally related to due diligence work associated with the acquisition of 
Commonwealth Brands Inc., acting as reporting accountant in connection with our offer for Altadis, tax advisory work and Sarbanes-
Oxley section 404 compliance. In other situations, proposed assignments were subject to independent tendering with decisions taken 
on the basis of competence and cost-effectiveness.  
Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed by  
the Auditors it was agreed that the Group continues to receive an efficient, effective and independent audit service. 
Internal Control  
The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code  
from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Group Compliance Function and external 
Auditors. However, given the size and complexity of the Group’s operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide reasonable  
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have  
been established to provide internal control. It confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group’s 
significant risks operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report. 
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as 
advocated by the Turnbull Guidance, and to comply with any relevant US governance and control provisions. The provisions of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act require US listed companies to adopt a generally accepted framework of control, advocating the “Internal Control-
Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as appropriate.  
The Group considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfy 
the requirements of both the Turnbull guidance and COSO.  
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: 
Risk Assessment: 
 The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part of its medium term planning process. These objectives are incorporated 
as part of the annual planning cycle; 
 A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium term planning and annual 
and monthly forecasting reporting cycles; 
 All areas of the business undertook risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks were 
reviewed at all levels across the Group. This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from 
each of the business operations identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the controls embedded in the business 
processes to mitigate such risks. This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there 
continue to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk 
exposure so identified; 
 The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a 
regular basis. The Group Compliance Function formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the outcome of its ongoing 
activities, including its programme of reviews relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and any more general business reviews. These 
reports have supported the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within the business 
operations. In this way, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Group’s exposure to major business risks is minimised such that 
the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group;  
 Notwithstanding that the Group has taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of  
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands in the first year after acquisition, the Group is integrating Commonwealth 
Brands within its overall control framework; and  
 A summary of the principal risks facing the business is included on page 12.  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 45
Control Environment and Control Activities: 
 The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having 
their own management and control structures which satisfy the Group’s controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities; 
 The Board continually reviews the Group’s organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with 
appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles. 
Such delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are 
taken at an appropriate level; 
 The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance 
nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision; 
 The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are expected to 
comply with. These cover key issues such as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical 
compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and health, safety and 
environmental issues. This framework of policies and procedures, which has been developed and issued, with consistent 
communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite 
control guidance and remains pertinent to the Group’s business activities; 
 A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or 
others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether 
financial or non-financial (commonly referred to as “Whistleblowing” arrangements) operates throughout the Group; 
 The Group has an established and consistent methodology for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations and 
identifying significant risk issues associated therewith. Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with each significant 
risk that has been identified, including not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual 
sourcing of supplies;  
 There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including 
acquisitions;  
 The Group’s treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Group’s financing arrangements and  
to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through treasury instruments; and 
 The Board reviews annually the Group’s Treasury and Tax functions and Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental matters. 
Information and communication: 
 Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed for 
robustness and realism; and 
 A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, ensured that 
major variances against plan were promptly and thoroughly investigated. These reviews were conducted at a detailed level within 
each function and at a high level by the Chief Executive’s Committee. 
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range of key 
performance indicators. These indicators are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable. 
Monitoring: 
 A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group. 
These included independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant 
controls. Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective 
systems of internal control, in accordance with the Group’s policies and covering all business activities (both financial  
and non-financial), have been maintained within their area of responsibility; 
 The Group Compliance Function’s responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control 
systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group; 
 Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls  
as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function; and 
 As a consequence of its US listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Testing of the 
2007 year end controls is still ongoing at the date of .  
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year  
ended 30 September 2007, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code  
and Turnbull guidance. Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, 
and review of the Group’s financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control. 
approval of the nnual eport AR Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 46 
Disclosure Committee: 
In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and to meet corporate governance best practice 
in the UK, the Group has a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives: 
 Company Secretary – chairman; 
 Head of Group Compliance – co-ordinator; 
 Senior Legal Counsel; and 
 Group Financial Controller. 
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
The External Auditors, together with other senior management, are invited to attend or to submit matters for the attention of  
the Committee. 
The Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, considered the significance of relevant information identified after due 
enquiry by its members both prior to each meeting and on an ongoing basis. The Committee reported on its evaluation of such 
information to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and, as appropriate, the Audit Committee to assist them in their evaluation of 
material issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required. 
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were reviewed during the year. 
Going Concern 
The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable 
future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Pension Fund 
The Group’s main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting of  
five nominees from the Company; one member of which is chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners. The 
Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent 
fund managers. The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the fund’s Rules and for no other purpose.  
Political Donations 
As in the previous year, no political donations were made to EU political parties or organisations. 
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements 
As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchange’s (NYSE) listing standards 
relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but is exempt from others. 
There is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US 
companies under the NYSE listing standards. At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the 
relevant NYSE listing standards. 
The Board develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group. In  
addition, the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent Group 
Compliance Function. 
Communication with Shareholders 
Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding  
and dialogue with investment audiences. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with feedback from external 
advisers, ensured that the views expressed at meetings with major shareholders were communicated effectively to the Board as a 
whole such that any issues or concerns were fully understood. 
The Group’s Annual Review, a summary financial statement, provides shareholders with the material information concerning Imperial 
Tobacco Group in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual Report and Accounts. Should they wish, shareholders can also 
request the full Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F. At the half year an Interim Report was published. All of these documents 
are available online through the Imperial Tobacco Group’s website, www.imperial-tobacco.com, together with all announcements, 
investor presentations and share price information. 
In relation to the proposed acquisition of Altadis a circular was sent to shareholders on 18 July 2007 and an Extraordinary General 
Meeting was held on 13 August 2007. 
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress of the Group via trading statements and of significant developments 
through other announcements. These were also made available on other news services and on the Group’s website. There was  
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences, which has been extended to ensure that major 
shareholders are given the opportunity to meet Non-Executive Directors on appointment and the senior independent Non-Executive 
Director will, if so requested, attend meetings with major investors. 
The Group regularly liaises with its major shareholders and their representative bodies on significant issues. The Group also met with 
Corporate Governance representatives of investors when requested.   Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 47
Currently all shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting 
proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including the ability to abstain if desired. T amendments to the 
Company’s Articles of Association, to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will allow the Company to benefit from the wider 
provisions under the Companies Act 2006 relating to communicating electronically with shareholders and will allow the Company to  
use its website to communicate with shareholders to a greater extent than currently possible. 
In addition, at the AGM in 2007 individual shareholders received presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the Group’s 
performance and current business activities and were given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees and other Directors. In accordance with the Group’s practice, the Annual Report and 
Accounts and Notice of the AGM were sent to shareholders more than 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting. 
Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject, with all resolutions put to a poll. The Company indicates the level of proxy 
votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against and withheld  
for each such resolution. In 2007, voting levels at the AGM represented 70 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital. After the 
conclusion of the meeting the final results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the group and the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). The group and parent company 
financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit 
or loss of the group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:- 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 state that the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent 
company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
 prepare the group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume  
that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s registered Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion 
on the financial statements of the Group and on the financial statements of the Company as presented by the Directors, on other 
elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation, and for reporting their opinion to members. Their 
report is set out on page . 
 
he 
67 Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 48 
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and to 
meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the 
principles of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration set out in the Code. 
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on the audited information within this Report 
and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. The 
Auditors’ opinion is set out on page  and those aspects of this Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked. 
The Remuneration Committee, which met five times during the year and operates under clear written terms of reference (available on 
the Company’s website www.imperial-tobacco.com), confirms formally that throughout the year it has been in compliance with the 
governance rules and best practice provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section 1 of the Code. 
Although the Company is required to report under the 2003 Code it has adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early and, 
therefore, was technically in breach of the 2003 Code provision B.2.1 as, since his appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier has 
remained a member of the Remuneration Committee (as permitted by the 2006 Code). 
Remuneration Committee 
 
Membership 
The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors together with the Chairman, Mr I J G Napier, who 
have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided. 
The members of the Committee during the year were: 
 Dr P H Jungels (chairman with effect from 2 January 2007); 
 Mr M H C Herlihy (with effect from 14 September 2007); 
 Mr C F Knott;  
 Ms S E Murray;  
 Mr I J G Napier (who stepped down as chairman of the Committee on 2 January 2007 upon his appointment as Chairman of  
the Company); and 
 Mr M D Williamson (with effect from 14 September 2007). 
Mr G Davis (Chief Executive) is, and prior to his retirement Mr D C Bonham (Board Chairman) was, invited to attend to respond to 
questions raised by the Committee. Mr M R Phillips (Company Secretary) also attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.  
They are, however, all specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of their own remuneration.  
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executive’s Committee after 
taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Hewitts Limited and Towers Perrin, both of whom 
are engaged by the Committee as required. Hewitts Limited also reviews the Group’s remuneration principles and practices against 
corporate governance best practice. Neither provides any other services for the Group. 
Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Perrin and Boardex have also been used to assist in benchmarking processes 
ensuring the consistent application of the executive remuneration policy.  
Mrs K A Turner (Group Human Resources Director) and Mr D P Cuthbert (Group Compensation and Benefits Manager) also provide 
internal support and advice to the Committee.  
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP have been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Group’s share plans and  
to provide services to the Committee as and when required. The firm also provides other legal services to the Group as a whole. 
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total Shareholder Return (TSR) calculations and provide advice on all TSR 
related matters. Alithos Limited provides no other services for the Group. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Group’s Auditors, certify Earnings Per Share (EPS) calculations used in the Group’s share plans prior 
to awards vesting. 
Responsibilities 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration 
Committee, within its terms of reference, responsibility for certain activities including the following: 
 determination of the remuneration levels and conditions of service for the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Chief 
Executive’s Committee; 
 oversight of the overall policy for senior management remuneration;  
 oversight of the Group’s employee share and cash-based incentive plans including approval of minor rule amendments, invitations 
and awards and the allocation or issue of shares or payments under any such plans; and 
 approval of the form and content of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, prior to submission to the shareholders at the AGM. 
67 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 49
During the year the most significant issues addressed by the Committee were: 
 review of standard executive service contracts inter alia to reflect the new age discrimination legislation; 
 review of the executive bonus scheme; 
 approval of amendments to the UK and Irish Sharesave Plans; 
 annual review of the operation, performance conditions, vesting schedules, comparator groups and grant levels of awards under the 
Group’s share plans, to ensure that they remain appropriate in light of the Group’s current performance and prospects and aligned 
with the strategy and objectives of the Group;  
 determination of bonus performance criteria and review of performance against the selected criteria prior to bonus payment; and 
 remuneration and contractual implications related to the resignation of Dr F A Rogerson. 
The Committee’s approach is fully consistent with the Group’s overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees should 
be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly 
aligning executive management reward with the Group’s strategic business goals. 
Remuneration Strategy 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment. For the Group to continue to compete 
successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining 
and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring that there is a  
clear link between reward and performance. The Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, 
appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which it operates. The Remuneration Committee oversees the remuneration 
policy for all employees. 
The Group’s remuneration arrangements not only align with the Group’s fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity  
but also support the Group’s corporate strategy, a significant contributor to its competitive advantage. The Group continues to relocate 
employees internationally to facilitate their development, and thus enhance the Company’s pool of talent, and to achieve the optimum 
balance of experience within the Group. A cohesive reward structure across the Group is critical in ensuring that all employees can 
associate with, and strive for, the Group’s strategic goals. During the year this structure was consistently applied and communicated to 
ensure each element of the package is understood and the links to corporate performance recognised. To assist in this communication 
senior employees were issued with total reward statements. 
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity and encourages 
them to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. Through a series of employee share plans the majority of employees  
of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans, with in excess of 38 per cent  
of the eligible population participating in one or more of those plans.  
Executive Remuneration Policy 
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executive’s 
Committee. The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a  
high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive. Notwithstanding the 
Company’s continued outperformance of the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 5 the executive remuneration policy continues 
to be set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive 
Directors and Chief Executive’s Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement  
of superior business performance. 
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, 
performance related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance. The main components are base 
salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme (SMS), long term incentive plan (LTIP) and pension benefits.  
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to consider corporate performance of environmental, social and governance issues 
when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors. 
8 Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 50 
Percentage of Total Remuneration 
for the financial year to 30 September 2007 
0 102030405060708090 100
Mr G Davis
Mr R Dyrbus
Mr G L Blashill
Mr D Cresswell
Dr F A Rogerson
Mrs A J Cooper
Salary
Bonus
Pension Salary 
Supplement
Beneﬁts
SMS
LTIP
From the financial year ended September 2004, following a comprehensive remuneration review carried out during that year, more 
stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements, as detailed in the annual 
cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on page , both of which form part of this policy statement. 
In September 2007 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the executive remuneration policy including award policies, performance 
criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules. Following the review of the bonus scheme detailed below the Committee  
is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder 
value. It was, however, agreed that the constituents of the bespoke comparator group for the third element of the LTIP described below 
should be reviewed following the acquisition of Gallaher Group PLC by Japan Tobacco Inc and the Company’s proposed acquisition  
of Altadis. 
Key Elements of Directors’ Remuneration Package in the Financial Year to 30 September 2007 
Element Objective Award level Performance criteria Performance period 
Base salary. Reward high performing 
employees reflecting market  
value of role and individual’s  
skills and experience. 
Median of FTSE 50 excluding 
companies in the Financial and 
Pharmaceutical sectors. 
N/A. N/A. 
Annual cash 
bonus. 
Incentivise delivery of  
Group objectives. 
Maximum percentage of  
base salary: 
Chief Executive and Finance 
Director 100%, other Executive 
Directors 75%. 
Adjusted EPS growth. 1 year. 
Share matching 
scheme. 
Incentivise delivery of improved 
Group adjusted EPS and align  
with interests of shareholders. 
May elect to invest some or all  
of gross bonus in shares. These 
can be matched on a 1:1 basis. 
Adjusted EPS growth. 3 years. 
Long term 
incentive plan. 
Incentivise long term delivery  
of TSR and EPS (adjusted for 
certain items) and align with 
interests of shareholders. 
Percentage of base salary: 
Chief Executive 200%, Finance 
Director 150%, other Executive 
Directors 100%. 
3 elements –  
50% adjusted EPS 
growth 
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 
25% TSR vs. 
comparator group.  
3 years. 
s 51 and 54 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 51
Base Salary 
Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration of a number of 
factors including individual responsibilities, performance and external market data. It is set within a range around the market median of 
the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive. The comparator 
group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors. Base salary is the 
only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings. 
Annual Cash Bonus 
For the financial year ended 30 September 2007 the potential maximum bonus was 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors. The targets for the year were all related to adjusted EPS growth, 
however, they are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential. 
During the year the Company achieved adjusted EPS of 136.7 pence resulting in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 53,  
being awarded to the Executive Directors. These payments represented 96 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive  
and Finance Director and 72 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors. Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior 
management for achieving relevant performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2007. 
For the financial year ending 30 September 2008 onwards the Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential maximum 
bonus will increase to 125 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 100 per cent for other Executive 
Directors. The performance criteria will be based on financial targets in respect of 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors. The performance criteria for 25 per cent of base salary will be 
based on stringent, quantifiable strategic targets which will be set each year.  
Any bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive 
Directors will be paid in cash and be eligible for investment into the Share Matching Scheme as detailed on page 59. Any bonus payable 
in excess of this level will be paid in shares which the Director will be required to retain for a minimum of three years. These shares will 
not be eligible for investment in the Share Matching Scheme. 
In support of the Group’s key performance indicators, as set out on page , the Remuneration Committee has determined that the 
financial performance criteria for the financial year ended 30 September 2008 will be based on Adjusted EPS and that the strategic 
targets will be based on measures including volume growth. 
No element of the bonus is guaranteed. 
13 Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 52 
Directors’ Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2007 (Audited) 
1
 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise. 
2
 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting. 
Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2007 (Audited) 
 
 
2007 
£’000 
2006
£’000 
Executive Directors   
Salary 2,515 2,313 
Benefits 93 85 
Pension Salary Supplement 239 116 
Bonus 2,140 1,341 
LTIP annual vesting
1
 2,866 1,788 
SMS vesting
2
 2,092 1,669 
 9,945 7,312 
Non-Executive Directors   
Fees 660 700 
Benefits 3 5 
Reemtsma Supervisory Boards – 7 
 663 712 
Former Executive Directors   
Salary of former Executive Director 96 
Bonus of former Executive Director 68 
Pension Salary Supplement of former Executive Director 16  
Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 103 106 
Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 22 
Contractual settlement of former Executive Director – 702 
LTIP vesting
1
  – 360 
SMS vesting
2
 6 330 
Benefits 4 – 
 315 1,520 
Fees of former Non-Executive Directors   
Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 15 
 22 15 
Total remuneration 10,945 9,559 
   
Chief Executive’s Committee   
Salary 725 735 
Benefits  25 28 
Pension Salary Supplement  48 23 
Bonus 487 448 
LTIP annual vesting
1
 469 322 
SMS annual vesting
2
 396 197 
 2,150 1,753 
 
2007 
£’000 
2006
£’000 
Short term employee benefits  6,648 5,655 
Post-employment benefits 312 438 
Other long term benefits  – – 
Termination benefits – 702 
Share-based payment 2,669 2,475 
 9,629 9,270 
– 
– 
– Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 53
Emoluments by Individual Director (Audited) 
 
Base 
salary 
£’000 
Fees  
£’000 
Supervisory 
Board fees  
£’000 
Bonus
£’000 
Pension  
alary 
1
£’000  
Benefits in 
kind
2
 £’000  
Sub total 
£’000 
LTIP
3
 
£’000  
SMS inc  
CSMS
3
  
£’000  
Total 
2007  
£’000 
Total
2006 
£’000 
Base 
1/10/2007
£’000 
Executive Directors             
Mr G Davis,  
Chief Executive 835 – – 802 – 22 1,659 1,055 780 3,494 2,700 939 
Mr R Dyrbus,  
Finance Director 530 – – 509 186 22 1,247 671 496 2,414 1,797 575 
Mr G L Blashill, 
Sales and Marketing 
Director 390 – – 281 – 16 687 182 237 1,106 876 420 
Mrs A J Cooper
4
, 
Corporate Development 
Director 96 – – 69 6 4 175 – 6 181 – 425 
Mr D Cresswell, 
Manufacturing Director 380 – – 274 – 17 671 479 285 1,435 945 405 
Dr F A Rogerson
5
, 
Corporate Affairs  
Director 284 – – 205 47 12 548 479 288 1,315 994 – 
 2,515 – – 2,140 239 93 4,987 2,866 2,092 9,945 7,312 2,764 
Non-Executive Directors             
Mr I J G Napier,  
Chairman – 245
6
 – – – – 245 – – 245 85
6
 360 
Mr A G L Alexander, 
Vice Chairman – 75 – – – 3 78 – – 78 78 85 
Mr D C Bonham
7
 – 76 – – – – 76 – – 76 302 – 
Dr K M Burnett – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 21 60 
Mr C R Day
8
 – 23
6
 – – – – 23 – – 23 57
6
– 
Mr S P Duffy
9
 – – – – – – – – – –  20
6
– 
Mr M H C Herlihy
4
 – 13 – – – – 13 – – 13 – 60 
Mr S Huismans
9
 – – – – – – – – – – 24 – 
Dr P H Jungels – 65
6
 – – – – 65 – – 65 50 85
6
Mr C F Knott – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 21 60 
Ms S E Murray – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 50 60 
Mr D W Thursfield
10
 – – – – – – – – – – 4 – 
Mr M D Williamson
4
 – 13 – – – – 13 – – 13 – 70
6
 – 660 – – – 3 663 – – 663 712 840 
Former Directors             
Mr B C Davidson
11
 – – – – – – – – – – 1,392 – 
Mr S Huismans
9
 – – 22 – – – 22 – – 22 15 – 
Mr S T Painter
12
 – 103 22 – – – 125 – – 125 128 – 
Dr F A Rogerson
5
 96 – – 68 16 4 184 – 6 190  – 
 96 103 44 68 16 4 331 – 6 337 1,535 – 
1
 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on page . 
2
 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance. 
3
 LTIP, SMS and CSMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year on annual vesting, including the vesting of the Centenary Share 
Matching Scheme. 
4
 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
5
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when 
his employment will terminate. 
6
 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of £10,000. 
7
 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007. 
8
 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007. 
9
 Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006. However, Mr S Huismans continues to receive fees in connection with his appointments to 
Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group. 
10
 Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005. 
11
 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005. Mr B C Davidson received payment in lieu of notice 
which was subject to his duty to mitigate. 
12
 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the 
Reemtsma Group. 
13
 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.  
supplement
salary/ 
fees from s
–    
63 Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 54 
Directors’ Interests in Shares (Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests) (Audited) 
        Ordinary Shares        Sharesave Options 
Contingent Rights to  
Ordinary Shares 
(LTIP and SMS Shares)         Total Interests 
 1/10/06
1
 30/9/07
2
 1/10/06
1
 30/9/07
2
 1/10/06
1
 30/9/07
2
 1/10/06
1
 30/9/07
2
 
Executive Directors         
Mr G Davis 330,289 367,726 1,979 1,344 291,791 317,394 624,059 686,464 
Mr R Dyrbus 213,944 237,190 776 621 170,047 171,890 384,767 409,701 
Mr G L Blashill 90,885 91,584 807 807 71,646 80,854 163,338 173,245 
Mrs A J Cooper
3
 57,809 57,981 670 670 65,550 65,256 124,029 123,907 
Mr D Cresswell 89,894 102,120 2,008 548 104,650 99,173 196,552 201,841 
Dr F A Rogerson
4
 88,831 106,461 2,008 2,556 105,080 99,467 195,919 208,484 
Non-Executive Directors         
Mr I J G Napier 4,305 5,600 – – – – 4,305 5,600 
Mr A G L Alexander 132,710 132,710 – – – – 132,710 132,710 
Mr D C Bonham
5
 124,600 124,600 – – – – 124,600 124,600 
Dr K M Burnett 134 405 – – – – 134 405 
Mr C R Day
6
 1,016 1,016 – – – – 1,016 1,016 
Mr M H C Herlihy
3
 – 343 – – – – – 343 
Dr P H Jungels 2,684 2,993 – – – – 2,684 2,993 
Mr C F Knott 134 405 – – – – 134 405 
Ms S E Murray 722 993 – – – – 722 993 
Mr M D Williamson
3
 – 81 – – – – – 81 
1
 Or date of appointment if later.  
2
 Or date of resignation if earlier. 
3
 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
4
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008,  
when his employment will terminate. 
5
 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007. 
6
 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007. 
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2007. 
Executive Share Retention 
To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are 
required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines. Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding  
in the Group’s shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors. Other senior management are expected to invest at a level 
equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade. Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is taken into 
account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards. All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Annual awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management. These awards vest three years after 
grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria over the relevant three year performance period. All grants are at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant. 
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of base salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level  
for other senior management. Following a comprehensive remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent shareholder approval at  
the 2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005 and November 2006 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief 
Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower level for 
other senior management. 
Current Structure 
From November 2005 the performance criteria for all awards were split into three elements as follows: 
First Element 
Fifty per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on average growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share based on an agreed 
protocol (EPS), after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award. At the Remuneration Committees’s request the Auditors 
performed agreed upon procedures on the calculations. 12.5 per cent of this element (i.e. 6.25 per cent of the total award) vests if 
average annual EPS growth, after adjusting for UK inflation (Real Annual EPS Growth), equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this 
element (i.e. 50 per cent of the total award) vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds ten per cent. Between these two points 
this element vests on a straight-line basis.  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 55
Second Element 
Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the FTSE 100 Index 
as described below. 
The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period. No vesting 
of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.  
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element (i.e. 7.5 per cent of the total award) vests. If the return ranks the Company  
in the top 25 of the Index, this element (i.e. 25 per cent of the total award) vests in full. Between these thresholds this element vests  
on a straight-line basis. 
Third Element 
Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as described below. 
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.  
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting the comparator 
group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below. At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element  
(i.e. 7.5 per cent of the total award) vests. If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element  
(i.e. 25 per cent of the total award) vests in full. Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis. 
Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S Diageo PLC 
Heineken N.V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew S.A. Japan Tobacco Inc.  
Pernod Ricard S.A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC Scottish & Newcastle PLC 
If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award a suitable replacement will be made. For  
any corporate actions affecting a comparator group company during an award period the intention would be to mirror the actions of  
a passive investor, e.g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder 
of the award period. Following Japan Tobacco’s acquisition of Gallaher Group PLC and the Company’s proposed acquisition of Altadis, 
been replaced in the comparator group by Japan Tobacco Inc. and Heineken N.V. respectively. 
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather than 
those ruling on a single day. It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared 
ex-dividend. This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several 
weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations. All share prices and dividend flows are converted to sterling on the 
applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor. 
The TSR calculations themselves are performed independently by Alithos Limited. 
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Company’s performance in respect of the  
other elements. 
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator groups and vesting 
schedules for LTIP awards and decided that the three elements remain the most important measures that drive and measure 
sustainable improvement in shareholder value. The TSR criteria reflect comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE  
sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies. The EPS criterion reflects a key part of the Group’s strategy to create 
sustainable shareholder value. 
 they have Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 56 
Awards Outstanding Under the Historic Structure 
For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion. This was seen  
as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and senior management could exercise influence. 
These awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted under the terms of the relevant protocol.  
The EPS calculations are confirmed by the Auditors. For awards granted between 2000 and 2002 no vesting occurred unless the 
Company’s Real Annual EPS Growth was positive. For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 no vesting occurs unless the Company’s 
Real Annual EPS Growth exceeds three per cent. Full vesting occurs if Real Annual EPS Growth is equal to or exceeds ten per cent. 
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.  
Vesting of awards 
On vesting a participant is granted an option to acquire the relevant number of shares. The option may be exercised at any time up  
to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.  
There is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.  
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest. This ensures  
that they only vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the 
Company, including the maintenance of long term return on capital employed. 
Under the LTIP Rules, in the event that Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is acquired the relevant performance period would come to  
an end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the 
applicable performance criteria. 
Award Summary 
Award Years Award as Percentage of Base Salary Performance Criteria 
1996 – 1999 75 for all Executive Directors 100 per cent on TSR 
2000 – 2004 75 for all Executive Directors 100 per cent on EPS 
2005 onwards  200 for Chief Executive 
 150 for Finance Director 
 100 for other Executive Directors 
 50 per cent on EPS 
 25 per cent on TSR against FTSE 100 
 25 per cent on TSR against comparator group  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 57
Executive Directors’ Conditional Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (Audited) 
 
Balance at  
1/10/2006
1
 
Granted 
during year Date of grant 
Market price 
at date of 
grant
£ 
Vested during 
year
(18/11/2006) 
Market price at 
date of vesting
 £ 
Market price 
at date of 
exercise 
£ 
Amount 
realised on 
exercise 
£’000 
Balance at 
30/9/2007
2
 
Performance period
November– 
November 
Mr G Davis 47,872 – 18/11/03 10.34 (47,872) 18.41 22.03 1,055 – 2003-2006 
 42,513 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 42,513 2004-2007 
 96,594 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 96,594 2005-2008 
 – 89,929 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 89,929 2006-2009 
 186,979 89,929 – – (47,872) – – – 229,036 – 
Mr R Dyrbus 30,464 – 18/11/03 10.34 (30,464) 18.41 22.03 671 – 2003-2006 
 26,974 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 26,974 2004-2007 
 45,975 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 45,975 2005-2008 
 – 42,810 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 42,810 2006-2009 
 103,413 42,810 – – (30,464) – – – 115,759 – 
Mr G L 
Blashill 9,912 – 18/11/03 10.34 (9,912) 18.41 18.41 182 – 2003-2006 
 8,600 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 8,600 2004-2007 
 21,981 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 21,981 2005-2008 
 – 21,001 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 21,001 2006-2009 
 40,493 21,001 – – (9,912) – – – 51,582 – 
Mrs A J 
Cooper
3
 9,773 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 9,773 2004-2007 
 13,003 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 13,003 2005-2008 
 13,731 – 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 13,731 2006-2009 
 36,507 – – – – – – – 36,507 – 
Mr D 
Cresswell 21,760 – 18/11/03 10.34 (21,760) 18.41 22.03 479 – 2003-2006 
 19,351 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 19,351 2004-2007 
 21,981 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 21,981 2005-2008 
 – 20,463 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 20,463 2006-2009 
 63,092 20,463 – – (21,760) – – – 61,795 – 
Dr F A 
Rogerson
4
 21,760 – 18/11/03 10.34 (21,760) 18.41 22.03 479 – 2003-2006 
 19,351 – 09/11/04 12.79 – – – – 19,351 2004-2007 
 21,981 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – – 21,981 2005-2008 
 – 20,463 01/11/06 18.57 – – – – 20,463 2006-2009 
 63,092 20,463 – – (21,760) – – – 61,795 – 
1
 Or date of appointment if later. 
2
 Or date of resignation if earlier. 
3
 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.  
4
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when 
his employment will terminate. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ awards since 30 September 2007.  Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 58 
During the year, the November 2003 – November 2006 award vested in full. Real Annual EPS Growth over the period averaged  
10.2 per cent, exceeding the average ten per cent threshold at which the award maximised.  
In respect of the November 2004 – November 2007 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year, 91.8 per cent of the award is 
expected to vest on 9 November 2007. For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 26 October 2007, being the latest practicable 
date prior to publication, was £24.25 valuing the awards as follows: 
 
Award lapsing
No. of shares 
Award vesting  
No. of shares over  
which option granted 
Award vesting
Illustrative value 
£’000 
Mr G Davis 3,499 39,014 946 
Mr R Dyrbus 2,220 24,754 600 
Mr G L Blashill 708 7,892 191 
Mrs A J Cooper 805 8,968 217 
Mr D Cresswell 1,593 17,758 43 
The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements. 
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2005 – November 2008 and the November 2006 – November 2009 awards to  
be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.  
However, in respect of the 2005 – 2008 award, the first with the three part performance criteria, based upon interim measurement 
calculations prepared as at 30 September 2007 partial vesting of 73.5 per cent of the first element, 60.8 per cent of the second 
element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.  
In respect of the 2006 – 2009 award based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2007 partial vesting 
of 88.1 per cent of the first element, 91.6 per cent of the second element and 30.0 per cent of the third element would occur if this 
performance were maintained over the relevant performance period. 
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows; 
 Potential awards vesting 
 November 2008 November 2009 
 No. of shares 
Illustrative value
£’000 No. of shares 
Illustrative value
£’000 
Mr G Davis 63,058 1,529 66,962 1,624 
Mr R Dyrbus 30,012 728 31,877 773 
Mr G L Blashill 14,348 348 15,638 379 
Mrs A J Cooper 8,488 206 10,223 248 
Mr D Cresswell 14,348 348 15,236 369 
Evidence of the Group’s sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below. 
 
Total return indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance 
of the Company, which is a constituent of that index and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP performance criterion. 
0
100
200
300
2 Sep 07 29 Sep 06 30 Sep 05 30 Sep 04 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 02
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE 100
8
1 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 59
Share Matching Schemes (SMS) 
Annual Scheme 
Under the SMS the Remuneration Committee at its absolute discretion invites Executive Directors and the majority of the Group’s 
management to invest any proportion of their gross bonus (capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors) in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by a nominee 
managed by the Employee Benefit Trust. Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and the participant 
remains an employee in the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis. 
However, in respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus paid in December 2003 and for  
future years, a performance criterion is applied to the matched shares such that matching only occurs if the Group has achieved Real 
Average EPS Growth in excess of three per cent after adjusting for UK inflation over the three year retention period, being an indicator 
of sustained ongoing profit delivery. Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP. There is no 
opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met. In setting the performance criterion for SMS awards, the Remuneration 
Committee decided that EPS reflects a key part of the Group’s strategy to create sustainable shareholder value. 
Under the SMS Rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the  
date of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable 
performance criterion. 
Centenary Scheme 
To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco 
Company (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries employed on  
10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to £3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary 
shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust or its nominee. Subject to those shares being left with the EBT or its nominee 
and the participant remaining an employee within the group, the shares were matched on a one for one basis on 12 August 2007.  Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 60 
The Executive Directors’ contingent rights to shares arising under both SMSs are set out below: 
Executive Directors’ Contingent Rights to Shares under the Share Matching Schemes (Audited) 
 
Balance at  
1/10/2006
1
 
Contingent  
rights arising 
Market price at 
date of grant
15/2/2007
£ 
Vested 
during year 
Market price at 
date of vesting
29/01/2007 and 
12/08/2007
£ 
Amount realised 
on vesting
£’000 
Balance at  
30/9/2007
2
 Actual/expected vesting date 
Mr G Davis 36,761 – – (36,761) 21.06 774 – January 2007 
 294 – – (294) 20.67 6 – August 2007 
 36,059 – – – – – 36,059 January 2008 
 31,698 – – – – – 31,698 February 2009 
 – 20,601 21.96 – – – 20,601 February 2010 
 104,812 20,601 – (37,055) – 780 88,358  
Mr R Dyrbus 23,282 – – (23,282) 21.06 490 – January 2007 
 294 – – (294) 20.67 6 – August 2007 
 22,947 – – – – – 22,947 January 2008 
 20,111 – – – – – 20,111 February 2009 
 – 13,073 21.96 – – – 13,073 February 2010 
 66,634 13,073  (23,576) – 496 56,131  
Mr G L Blashill 10,947 – – (10,947) 21.06 231 – January 2007 
 294 – – (294) 20.67 6 – August 2007 
 9,211 – – – – – 9,211 January 2008 
 10,701 – – – – – 10,701 February 2009 
 – 9,360 21.96 – – – 9,360 February 2010 
 31,153 9,360 – (11,241) – 237 29,272  
Mrs A J Cooper
3
 294 – – (294) 20.67 6 – August 2007 
 10,984 – – – – – 10,984 January 2008 
 9,988 – – – – – 9,988 February 2009 
 7,777 – – – – – 7,777 February 2010 
 29,043 – – (294) – 6 28,749  
Mr D Cresswell 13,262 – – (13,262) 21.06 279 – January 2007 
 294 – – (294) 20.67 6 – August 2007 
 14,893 – – – – – 14,893 January 2008 
 13,109 – – – – – 13,109 February 2009 
 – 9,376 21.96 – – – 9,376 February 2010 
 41,558 9,376 – (13,556) – 285 37,378  
Dr F A Rogerson
4
 13,692 – – (13,692) 21.06 288 – January 2007 
 – –  – – 294 August 2007 
 14,893 – – – – – 14,893 January 2008 
 13,109 – – – – – 13,109 February 2009 
 – 9,376 21.96 – – – 9,376 February 2010 
 41,988 9,376 – (13,692) – 288 37,672  
1
 Or date of appointment, if later.  
2
 Or date of resignation, if earlier. 
3
 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.  
4
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when 
his employment will terminate. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ contingent rights since 30 September 2007. 
During January 2007, annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2003 and lodged under the SMS for a three year 
period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a one for one basis. 
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2006 and paid in December 2006, the Executive Directors 
elected, in February 2007, to invest their entire bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS. 
These will be matched on a one for one basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee in 
the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of three per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period. This 
performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed to 
remain appropriate. These matching shares are shown within contingent rights arising above. 
– 294  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 61
It is anticipated that, in February 2008, the Executive Directors will again invest their entire bonus earned in the financial year  
to 30 September 2007 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS. 
Share Options 
The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme. However, Executive Directors are eligible (along with all employees 
of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group, where possible) to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s savings-
related Sharesave Plan. Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of an 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have 
contracted to save up to £250 per month over a period of three or five years. 
Executive Directors’ Share Options (Audited) 
Gains on exercise
4
 
 
Balance at  
1/10/2006
1
 
Granted 
during 
the year 
Exercised 
during the
year 
Market 
price at date 
of exercise
01/08/2007
£ 
Balance at 
30/9/2007
2
 
Exercise
price
£ 
Range of exercisable  
dates of options held at  
30/9/2006
3
 
year
£’000 
2006
£’000 
Mr G Davis 1,205 – (1,205) 21.69 – 8.24 01/08/07 – 31/01/08 16 – 
 774 – – – 774 8.22 01/08/08 – 31/01/09 – – 
 – 570 – – 570 17.22 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 – – 
 1,979 570 (1,205) – 1,344 –  16 – 
Mr R Dyrbus 374 – (374) 21.69 – 10.08 01/08/07 – 31/01/08 4 – 
 402 – – – 402 13.95 01/08/09 – 31/01/10 – – 
 – 219 – – 219 17.22 01/08/10 – 31/01/11 – – 
 776 219 (374) – 621 –  4  
Mr G L Blashill 807 – – – 807 11.73 01/08/08 – 31/01/09 – – 
 807 – – – 807 –  – – 
Mrs A J Cooper
5
 670 – – – 670 13.95 01/08/09 – 31/01/10 – – 
 670 – – – 670 –  – – 
Mr D Cresswell 2,008 – (2,008) 21.69 – 8.24 01/08/07 – 31/01/08 27 – 
 – 548 – – 548 17.22 01/08/10 – 31/01/11 – – 
 2,008 548 (2,008) – 548 –  27 – 
Dr F A Rogerson
6
 2,008 – – – 2,008 8.24 01/08/07 – 31/01/08 – – 
 – 548 – – 548 17.22 01/08/10 – 31/01/11 – – 
1
 Or date of appointment to the Board, if later.  
2
 Or date of resignation, if earlier. 
3
 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire. 
4
 Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise. Aggregate gains during the year were 
£47,557 (2006: £6,203). 
5
 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
6
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when 
his employment will terminate. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ share options since 30 September 2007. 
The Company’s middle market share price at the close of business on 28 September 2007, being the last trading day of the financial 
year, was £22.41 and the range of the middle market price during the year was £17.64 to £23.30. 
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at the Company’s  
registered office. 
Award Dates 
It is the Group’s policy to grant awards under all its employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle. 
During the 
6
 548 – – – – –   2,008 2,556 Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 62 
Employee Benefit Trusts 
The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust (the Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 
Employee Benefit Trust (the 2001 Trust) have been established to acquire ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares in the 
Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share 
options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.  
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: 
 
Balance at 
1/10/2006 
Purchased 
during year 
Distributed 
during year 
Balance at 
30/9/2007 
Shares under 
Award at 
30/9/2007 
Surplus / 
(Shortfall) 
Executive Trust 905,542 366,238 277,167 994,613 925,417 69,169 
2001 Trust 3,340,801 2,162,041
1
1,741,716 3,761,126 3,940,644 (179,518)
1
 Includes 7,790 American Depositary Shares representing 15,580 ordinary shares. 
As at 30 September 2007, the Company also held 51,717,000 shares in Treasury which may be used to satisfy options and awards 
under its share plans. 
Share Plan Flow Rates 
The Company’s policy has always been to satisfy all awards under its share plans from market purchased shares through the Trusts.  
The Trust Deeds and the Rules of all plans contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and ten per cent in ten years 
for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to five per cent in ten years for executive plans. Currently an aggregate total  
of only 0.7 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital is subject to awards under all the Group’s executive and all employee share 
plans. In future the Trusts may also be provided with shares held by the Company in Treasury in order to satisfy vesting awards. 
Since demerger in 1996 the cumulative awards under all of the Company’s share plans totals 3.1 per cent of its issued share capital. 
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital. 
Summary of Awards Granted 
Limit on awards 
Cumulative Awards granted as a percentage of 
issued share capital 
Awards granted during the year as a percentage of 
issued share capital 
10% in 10 years 2.9 0.2 
5% in 5 years 1.3 0.2 
5% in 10 years (executive schemes) 1.4 0.1 
Executive Directors’ Pensions  
Post 6 April 2006 (“A” day) the Group’s UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to 
maintain membership of or join (new employees) the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of 
membership of the Fund. 
The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the 
Group. For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60. The fund 
allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age usually after 32 years’ service. 
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.  
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the 
member’s expected pension at retirement. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the member’s pre-commutation 
pension is payable. Dependent children will also receive allowances. 
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of ten per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the 
rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to 15 per cent. 
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) which abolished most of the detailed limits 
previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a more simplified approach. Each member now has a Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA) initially set at £1.5 million (£1.6 million 2007/2008) and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at retirement 
if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount. For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 
exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large 
retrospective lifetime allowance charge. To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of fund 
membership as regards future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.  
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60. Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each of the 
current Executive Directors has opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced 
protection with HMRC. The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible in some rare 
circumstances for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the fund. In this event an 
additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme (UURBS) so that the full 
accrued benefit may be provided. 
1 Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 63
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises 
because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary. Mrs A J Cooper is also in 
receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRC's earnings cap. Although 
this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable 
service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess 
of the Fund's earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1/60ths with a 50 per cent spouse's
 pension
 
and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this 
top slice of
  
salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount. 
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of  
which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers' National Insurance contributions. The supplements  
are non-compensatory and non-pensionable. 
Dr F A Rogerson opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for Enhanced Protection with 
HMRC from 6 April 2006. Dr F A Rogerson is in receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of future pension service and accrual of 16.4 per cent
 of
 
salary. This amount is a non-pensionable payment. 
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and gives 
details for each Director of: 
� the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he had left service at the year end (any potential UURBS 
entitlement is included); 
� the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under  
the Listing Rules; and 
� the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11. 
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions. 
Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited) 
  Disclosures required under Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules 
   Accrued pension £’000 Transfer value of accrued pension £’000 
 
Age at 
30/9/2007 
Years 
Pensionable 
service at 
30/9/2007 
Years 
At 
1/10/2006 
Increase 
during the 
year 
At
30/9/2007
 
At
1/10/2006 
Increase 
during the 
year net of 
Director’s 
contributions 
Director’s 
contribution At 30/9/2007 
Increase in 
accrued 
pension (net 
of inflation) 
during the 
year
£’000 
Transfer 
value of 
increase 
(net of 
inflation)
£’000 
Mr G Davis 57 35 520 37 557 8,924 1,137 – 10,061 14 246 
Mr R Dyrbus 54 25 250 18 268 3,646 539 – 4,185 7 105 
Mrs A J Cooper 41 8 28 9 37 216 92 9 317 8 67 
Mr D Cresswell
2
 62 44 237 16 253 4,829 (30) – 4,799 6 132 
Dr F A Rogerson
1
 54 30 215 12 227 3,112 404 – 3,516 2 30 
Mr G L Blashill
2
 60 39 236 24 260 4,896 310 – 5,206 14 311 
Former Directors            
Dr F A Rogerson
1
 54 30 – 3 230 – 59 – 3,575 4 59 
1
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 1 July 2007. 
2
 Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill started to draw pension during the course of the year, including payment of a tax free cash lump sum as is permitted under the Fund rules.  
The figures in the table above incorporate allowance for the benefits paid out in order to provide a relevant comparison with the start of year figures and have been 
calculated consistently with those disclosed at 30 September 2006. A slightly different methodology is used to calculate transfer values for pensioner members and this 
methodology would give transfer values at 30 September 2007 of £5,161,000 for Mr Cresswell and £5,728,000 for Mr Blashill. 
Other than including an allowance for the benefits drawn by Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill during the year, the transfer values disclosed 
above do not represent the value of a potential liability of the pension scheme. 
Benefits 
The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of company cars and health insurance. 
Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships 
The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the 
Company. At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive 
directorship. Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of 
a FTSE 100 company. 
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received fees of £66,666.  Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 64 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson 
Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect 
that. The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Company’s established policy that Executive Directors have 
service agreements which are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of  
a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. 
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors’ service agreements, save as 
set out in the table below. The Executive Directors’ service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are  
at the Company’s sole discretion. The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited respects referred to 
above, the circumstances of the termination and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every 
case. The Group’s policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration 
from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.  
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, 
redundancy or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria. If, 
however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individual’s full award lapses. 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control 
Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period. 
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period. 
Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
Mr D Cresswell 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
Mrs A J Cooper
1
 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
1
 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions 
contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board following 
recommendation from the Remuneration Committee. The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not take part in discussions 
relating to their own remuneration. They receive no other material pay or benefits (with the exception of reimbursement of expenses 
incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company 
offices by the Chairman Mr D C Bonham (until his retirement on 2 January 2007) and Vice Chairman Mr A G L Alexander), do not 
participate in the Company’s share plans, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership. 
To align further the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees  
be applied, after statutory deductions, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. These shares are to be held by a nominee 
during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship. Exceptionally, in respect of Mr A G L Alexander (and for Mr D C Bonham up to  
the date of his retirement), this requirement has been waived due to their continued level of investment, as detailed above.  
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the 
Reemtsma group for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles. 
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company. 
The terms of their appointments are reviewed annually. These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on  
29 January 2007. The letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours, 
and prior to and at the AGM. Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for election 
at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to triennial re-election by shareholders and retire (subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985) at the AGM following their reaching 70 years of age. There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their 
letters of appointment which state that the Non-Executive Director will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, 
therefore, no compensation is payable on termination. The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each Non-
Executive Director. The amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association, to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will remove
 the requirement for directors to retire on reaching 70 years of age, in accordance with the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006.  Directors’ Report: Governance
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 65
Although currently there is no maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice 
provisions contained in the Code. However, where the Board considers a Non-Executive Director is making a particularly valuable 
contribution, they may be invited to remain on the Board in excess of nine years. In such instances the length of tenure of the Non-
Executive Director would be relevant to the Company’s deliberations as to the independence of the Non-Executive Director and he/she 
would also be subject to annual re-election at the AGM. It is proposed that Mr A G L Alexander, who has been on the Board since 
demerger in 1996, will retire from the Board at the 2008 AGM. 
Remuneration Arrangements for Former Executive Directors 
Dr F A Rogerson 
Dr F A Rogerson resigned as a director on 27 June 2007 for personal and private reasons. Under his contract of employment,  
Dr Rogerson was required to give 12 months’ notice to terminate his employment. Dr Rogerson will complete a handover period and 
will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment will terminate. 
Dr Rogerson will receive a bonus in respect of the 2006/2007 bonus year, but he has been excluded from the 2007/2008 bonus 
scheme and will not receive any bonus payment in respect of that bonus year. It has also been agreed with Dr Rogerson that his 
pension supplement will cease to be paid on 31 December 2007 and that no pension supplement will be paid for the remainder  
of his notice period. 
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the awards granted to Dr Rogerson under the Imperial Tobacco Group LTIP and the 
shares awarded to him under the Share Matching Scheme will vest, to the extent that the applicable performance conditions are 
satisfied, pro rata for the period up to 31 December 2007. 
No compensation will be paid to Dr Rogerson in connection with the termination of his employment. 
Mr S T Painter 
Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Group’s 
principal operating company. 
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007. Under the terms of the agreement he provided 
consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of £1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each  
12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007. Mr S T Painter is still providing 
consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of £1,000. However, there is now no minimum fee. He is entitled  
to reimbursement for the use of his car. 
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma group for which he receives additional remuneration  
for fulfilling such non-executive roles. 
Mr M A Häussler  
Mr M A Häussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it has been taken before he reached his 
normal retirement age. His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to those 
that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement. This was a pension  
for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension for life of 60 per cent  
of that amount would be payable. Prior to 1 April 2007 the pension was made up of three parts: one part of the pension payable  
from the unfunded pension arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, another part payable from the separately funded 
Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund and the difference, which was not separately pre-funded, was paid by the Company. To simplify  
the administration of the pension arrangements from 1 April 2007, the Company augmented that part of the pension paid to Mr M A 
Häussler from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund by the same amount that had been payable previously by the Company (£12,072.48 
per annum) and terminated that part of the pension paid by the Company from that date. The pension payable under the Reemtsma 
arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased annually in accordance with the Rules of those 
arrangements, or as required by law.  
For the Board 
 
 
 
P H Jungels 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
 October 2007 31 66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
67 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
68 Consolidated Income Statement
69 Consolidated Balance Sheet
70 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
71 Accounting Policies
76 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
78 Notes to the Financial Statements
111 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
112 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
113 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Balance Sheet
Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 67
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007 which comprise
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, the consolidated statement
of recognised income and expense and the related notes. These Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 
30 September 2007 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Company’s members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group ﬁnancial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial
statements. The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that speciﬁc information presented in the Business 
Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information speciﬁed by law regarding Director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined
Code (2003) speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Business Review, Chairman’s Statement, the Report of the Directors, the
Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications 
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group ﬁnancial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 
of the presentation of information in the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and article 4 
of the IAS regulation; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Bristol
31 October 2007 Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) Notes 2007 2006
Revenue 1 12,344 11,676 
Duty and similar items 1 (9,064) (8,514)
Other cost of sales (990) (1,013)
Cost of sales (10,054) (9,527)
Gross profit 2,290 2,149 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (659) (627)
Administrative expenses (213) (211)
Profit from operations 1 1,418 1,311 
Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 1,356 
Amortisation of acquired trademarks 9 (23) –
Restructuring costs 3 – (45)
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments (34) –
Investment income 5 318 283 
Finance costs 5 (499) (426)
Net finance costs 5 (181) (143)
Adjusted net finance costs (237) (188)
Retirement benefits net financing income 54 46 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 2 (1)
Profit before taxation 2 1,237 1,168 
Taxation 6 (325) (310)
Profit for the year 912 858 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 905 851 
Minority interests 7 7 
Earnings per ordinary share – Basic 8 134.3 p 122.2 p
– Diluted 8 133.7 p 121.6 p
All activities derive from continuing operations. 
68 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 69
Financial Statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 30 September 2007
September September
(In £s million) Notes 2007 2006
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 4,950 3,910 
Property, plant and equipment 10 640 580 
Investments in associates 11 4 5 
Retirement benefit assets 18 602 397 
Trade and other receivables 13 7 19
Deferred tax assets 17 52 71 
6,255 4,982 
Current assets
Inventories 12 998 789 
Trade and other receivables 13 1,254 1,067 
Current tax assets 6 50 13 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 380 263 
Derivative financial instruments 16 71 29 
2,753 2,161 
Total assets 9,008 7,143 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (1,067) (1,122)
Derivative financial instruments 16 (219) (119)
Trade and other payables 15 (1,593) (1,433)
Current tax liabilities 6 (267) (272)
Provisions 19 (26) (56)
(3,172) (3,002)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (4,053) (2,930)
Trade and other payables 15 (5) (5)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (208) (135)
Retirement benefit liabilities 18 (397) (434)
Provisions 19 (32) (39)
(4,695) (3,543)
Total liabilities (7,867) (6,545)
Net assets 1,141 598 
Equity
Share capital 20 73 73
Share premium account 22 964 964
Retained earnings 22 58 (423)
Exchange translation reserve 22 23 (35)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,118 579 
Minority interests 23 23 19 
Total equity 1,141 598 
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 68 to 114 were approved by the Board of Directors on 31 October 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Iain Napier Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Exchange movements 58 (54)
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 202 100 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits (59) (24)
Deferred tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity – 7 
Current tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity 5 –
Net income recognised directly in equity 206 29 
Profit for the year 912 858 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 1,111 880 
Minority interests 7 7 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) Notes 2007 2006
Cash flows from operating activities 27 999 1,155 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 15 13 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (128) (75)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5 15 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (5) (7)
Purchase of intangible assets – trademarks (5) (368)
Purchase of businesses – net of cash acquired 24 (966) (68)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,084) (490)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (227) (199)
Purchase of treasury shares (105) (556)
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 7 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (55) (55)
Increase in borrowings 2,324 1,356 
Repayment of borrowings (1,317) (795)
Dividends paid to minority interests (4) (7)
Dividends paid to shareholders (434) (406)
Net cash generated by/(used in) financing activities 189 (655)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 104 10 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 263 257 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 13 (4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 380 263 
70 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 71
Financial Statements
Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC
interpretations as endorsed by the European Union (collectively IFRS) and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies 
on ﬁnancial instruments, retirement beneﬁt schemes and share schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities 
at the date of the ﬁnancial statements. The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and
Judgements note on pages 76 to 77. Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that
are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute management’s best judgement at the date of the ﬁnancial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. This could affect future ﬁnancial statements as the
original estimates and assumptions are modiﬁed, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change. 
Consolidated income statement presentation format
We continually review the content and presentation of our ﬁnancial statements to ensure compliance with relevant accounting standards
and regulations and also to consider their relevance and usefulness to readers. As a result of this ongoing review we have changed the
format of our consolidated income statement from the nature of expense to the function format, also known as the cost of sales format.
Comparative data has been restated. We believe this revised presentation will provide users of our ﬁnancial statements with a better
understanding of our business. 
The functional presentation is also more consistent with that of our major competitors and many other European FMCG groups reporting
under IFRS, and is more closely aligned with the way management reviews performance internally. 
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its subsidiary
undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial 
and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries 
are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of the acquisition over 
the Group’s share of the fair value of the net identiﬁable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated; unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 117 to 118.
Foreign currency
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the company operates (the functional currency).
The income and cash ﬂow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling 
(the Group’s presentation currency) at average rates of exchange in each period. Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated
at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The differences between retained proﬁts and losses translated at average 
and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year. 
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity. As permitted 
by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date 
of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation 
at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised 
in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges external borrowings and permanent intragroup loans up to the value of the net assets 
of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies. Gains or losses on these hedges are transferred to equity to offset any
gains or losses on translation of the net assets.  Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts. Revenue from 
the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the
products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured. Sales of services, which include fees for distributing third
party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered. Licence fees are recognised on an accruals
basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Duty and similar items
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production tax, duty 
is included in the income statement as an expense. Where duty is a sales tax, duty is deducted from revenue. Payments due in the
United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are treated as a production tax.
Taxes
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantially enacted at the balance sheet
date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements
and the tax base. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability
in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt
or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which
the assets can be realised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have
been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled 
or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries (including overseas subsidiaries), except where
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised 
in equity.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends 
are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible assets – goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair value of the net identiﬁable assets 
and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised. Previously all goodwill was written off through equity
in the period of acquisition. As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance
with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot 
be subsequently reversed. Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation
is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to beneﬁt from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose. Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the
carrying value of the Group company’s assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill. Goodwill previously written
off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible assets – other
These consist mainly of acquired trademarks and computer software which are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and
impairment. Trademarks include the Davidoff cigarette trademark which was acquired in September 2006. The Directors are of the
opinion that this trademark has an indeﬁnite life, based on the fact that Davidoff is an established international brand with global growth
potential. Trademarks with indeﬁnite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment. Other trademarks and computer
software are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives. For trademarks (other than Davidoff) the useful life does not exceed
20 years. Computer software is written off over a period that does not exceed ﬁve years.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown in the balance sheet at their historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included 
in the assets’ carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts
associated with them will ﬂow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs
are charged to the income statement as incurred.
72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Accounting policies continued www.imperial-tobacco.com 73
Financial Statements
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each asset
to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years (straight line)
Plant and equipment 2 – 20 years (straight line/reducing balance)
Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 – 14 years (straight line)
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the income statement.
Impairment of assets
Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment. Assets that are subject 
to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and 
the value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately
identiﬁable cash ﬂows (cash-generating units).
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant
instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to receive beneﬁts have expired or been transferred, and the Group has
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed as loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents). Receivables are initially
recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount 
of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows, and 
is recognised in the income statement. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective
interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs. All borrowing
costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group transacts derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. 
The Group does not transact derivative ﬁnancial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are included
in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant. However, as the Group has
decided not to hedge account for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments (as permitted under IAS 39), changes in fair values are recognised
in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) method. 
The cost of ﬁnished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production
overheads (based on normal operating capacity) but excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classiﬁed as a current asset, consistent with
recognised industry practice.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more
likely than not that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced. Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outﬂow will be required in settlement is determined by considering
the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outﬂow with respect to any one item included 
in the same class of obligations may be small.  Retirement beneﬁt schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁt schemes for its employees, including both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned 
contribution schemes.
Under a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme, the amount of retirement beneﬁt that will be received by an employee is deﬁned. The amount
recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date
and the fair value of the scheme assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected
unit credit method. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows.
The service cost of providing retirement beneﬁts to employees during the year is charged to proﬁt from operations.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees
remaining in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-
line basis over the average vesting period. All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected returns 
on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in full in the statement
of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the retirement beneﬁt schemes during the year is included within net ﬁnance
costs. This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the ﬁnancial year. A charge is also made within net
ﬁnance costs for the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement beneﬁt schemes during the year. This arises from the schemes
being one year closer to payment. 
For deﬁned contribution schemes, the Group pays a deﬁned contribution to the scheme; there are no further payment obligations 
once these contributions have been paid. Such contributions are recognised as an employee beneﬁt expense when they are due. 
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
Share-based payments
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” to share-based employee compensation schemes in respect 
of awards granted after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates speciﬁed in IFRS 1.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation schemes. The cost of employees’ services received 
in exchange for the grant of rights under both types of scheme is expensed over the vesting period, and is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (e.g. earnings per share). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable
under all schemes, and re-measures the fair value of the cash-settled schemes. The Group recognises the impact of the revision of
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes and current
liabilities for cash-settled schemes. The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms
and conditions of the award.
In order to manage the related exposure, the Group funds the purchase of the number of shares necessary to satisfy rights to shares
arising under share-based employee compensation schemes. Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share
Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders 
of the Company. No additional shares are issued as a result of the Group’s share-based employee compensation schemes. When 
the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of any proceeds received.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to the equity holders
of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included 
in equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
Segmental reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic
environment.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. The management
structure is based on geographical regions. These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe, United States and
Rest of the World have been used as the primary reporting segments. The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-
related products is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary
segment disclosure has been made. Central costs are allocated to segments on a consistent basis of net revenue.
74 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Accounting policies continued
Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 75
Financial Statements
The prices agreed between Group companies for intragroup sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties,
commissions and fees are based on normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Use of adjusted measures
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a better comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way 
in which the business is controlled. Accordingly, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax,
taxation and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired trademarks, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts
net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and
related taxation effects. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations are included within note 1 to the ﬁnancial
statements, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported
earnings per share in note 8. The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁned terms under International Financial Reporting
Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The principal adjustments made to reported proﬁts are as follows:
Amortisation of acquired trademarks
Acquired trademarks are recognised as intangible assets, and are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these 
are considered to be ﬁnite. Acquired trademarks considered to have an indeﬁnite life are not amortised. We exclude the amortisation 
of acquired trademarks and deferred tax relating to tax deductible amortisation from our adjusted earnings measures. 
Restructuring costs
Signiﬁcant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related 
tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, and that changes in the fair
value are recognised in the income statement unless the instrument qualiﬁes for hedge accounting under IAS 39. 
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efﬁcient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements 
of IAS 39 lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, the Group has decided
not to apply hedge accounting as permitted under IAS 39. We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments
used to commercially hedge interest rate risk from adjusted net ﬁnancing costs. We also exclude fair value gains on derivative ﬁnancial
instruments used to commercially hedge investments in foreign operations from adjusted proﬁt from operations. 
Retirement benefits net financing income
The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement beneﬁt liabilities are included within net ﬁnance costs. Since these
items do not impact cash ﬂows and can be subject to signiﬁcant volatility outside management’s control they have been eliminated 
from adjusted measures of net ﬁnance costs and earnings per share.
Other non-GAAP measures used by management
Net revenue
Net revenue comprises revenue less duty and similar items. The segmental analysis in note 1 includes amounts for net revenue 
which management regards as an important measure in assessing the proﬁtability of operations. 
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes the fair value of interest rate derivative
ﬁnancial instruments and interest accruals.
New Standards and Interpretations not yet effective and not adopted early
At the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these ﬁnancial statements, were issued but application was not mandatory for the period:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction 
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the net assets or results of the Group. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have 
a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year 
are discussed below.
Legal proceedings
In accordance with IFRS, the Group only recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer 
of economic beneﬁts is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be reliably estimated. In such instances a provision 
is calculated and recorded in the ﬁnancial statements. In instances where these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may 
be disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group; or a present obligation arising 
from past events that is not recognised in the ﬁnancial statements because it is not probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying
economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation, or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with 
sufﬁcient reliability.
Realisation of any contingent liabilities not currently recognised or disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements could have a material effect 
on the Group’s ﬁnancial condition.
Application of these accounting principles to legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-
related effects is inherently difﬁcult, given the complex nature of the facts and law involved. Deciding whether or not to provide for 
loss in connection with such claims requires the Group’s management to make determinations about various factual and legal matters 
beyond its control.
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal proceedings and at each balance sheet date, in order 
to assess the need for provisions in its ﬁnancial statements. Among the factors considered in making decisions on provisions are 
the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, the legal processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which 
the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought, the progress of the case (including progress after the date of the ﬁnancial
statements but before those statements are issued), the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, experience of similar
cases and any decision of the Group’s management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Group’s determinations at any time do not reﬂect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any
claim, its future ﬁnancial statements may be materially affected, with an adverse impact upon the Group’s proﬁt from operations,
ﬁnancial position and liquidity.
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-
related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being
vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending
actions will not have an adverse effect upon the revenue, proﬁt or ﬁnancial condition of the Group. Consequently, in respect of any such
cases, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. See note 26 to these ﬁnancial statements.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Intangible assets (other than goodwill and the Davidoff cigarette trademark) and property, plant and equipment are amortised 
or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based on management’s estimates of the period over which the assets will
generate revenue, and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. Due to the long lives of certain assets, changes 
to the estimates used can result in signiﬁcant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or depreciation
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important
that could trigger an impairment review include the following:
• signiﬁcant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results;
• signiﬁcant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; and
• signiﬁcant negative industry or economic trends.
76 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 77
Financial Statements
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and the Davidoff cigarette trademark are subject to impairment review. The Group’s
management undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. When it is determined that there is an indicator that the carrying value may not be recoverable,
impairment is measured based on estimates of the fair values of the underlying assets of the cash-generating unit.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application 
of the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported 
in the ﬁnancial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets. 
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, 
it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these ﬁnancial statements.
Retirement beneﬁts
The costs, assets and liabilities of the deﬁned beneﬁt retirement schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods
relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions. Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18. The Group takes advice from
independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions. It is important to note, however, that comparatively small
changes in the assumptions used may have a signiﬁcant effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and signiﬁcant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of
business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become
due. Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact
the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
See note 6 to these ﬁnancial statements. 78 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
1. Segmental information
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. The management
structure is based on geographical regions. These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe, US and Rest of the
World have been used as the primary reporting segments. The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products 
is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary segment disclosure 
has been made. Central costs are allocated to segments on the basis of net revenue.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to ‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect 
the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for 2006 have been restated accordingly. Similarly the 2006
results of our US business have been reclassiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘US’ as the US segment has been introduced following 
the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
Geographical consolidated income statement by destination of sales
2007 Duty and Profit from
(In £s million) Revenue similar items Net revenue operations
UK 4,842 3,966 876 555
Germany 2,645 2,121 524 232
Rest of Western Europe 1,746 1,111 635 319
US 266 149 117 35
Rest of the World 2,845 1,717 1,128 277
12,344 9,064 3,280 1,418 
2006 Duty and Profit from
(In £s million) Revenue similar items Net revenue operations
UK 4,762 3,927 835 496
Germany 2,698 2,123 575 239
Rest of Western Europe 1,647 1,010 637 321
US 14 – 14 4
Rest of the World 2,555 1,454 1,101 251
11,676 8,514 3,162 1,311
Geographical reconciliation from proﬁt from operations to adjusted proﬁt from operations by destination of sales
Fair value
changes on
derivative Adjusted
2007 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from
(In £s million) operations of trademarks* costs instruments operations*
UK 555 – – 9 564
Germany 232 – – 6 238
Rest of Western Europe 319 – – 7 326
US 35 17 – – 52
Rest of the World 277 6 – 12 295
1,418 23 – 34 1,475
Fair value
changes on
derivative Adjusted
2006 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from
(In £s million) operations of trademarks* costs instruments operations*
UK 496 n/a 10 – 506
Germany 239 n/a 31 – 270
Rest of Western Europe 321 n/a 3 – 324
US 4 n/a – – 4
Rest of the World 251 n/a 1 – 252
1,311 n/a 45 – 1,356
* Amortisation of trademarks relates principally to Commonwealth Brands’ trademarks acquired in 2007 and trademarks acquired in Australia and New Zealand in 1999. 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations has not been restated for 2006 as the trademark amortisation effect was not signiﬁcant in that year. www.imperial-tobacco.com 79
Financial Statements
1. Segmental information continued
Geographical analysis of other segment items
By destination of sales By location of business unit
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure
2007 Property, plant Intangible Property, plant Intangible
(In £s million) and equipment assets Depreciation Amortisation and equipment assets
UK 21 2 22 2 26 2
Germany 24 1 10 1 46 1
Rest of Western Europe 6 – 5 – 5 –
US 2 5 – 17 2 5
Rest of the World 75 2 51 7 49 2
128 10 88 27 128 10
By destination of sales By location of business unit 
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure
2006 Property, plant Intangible Property, plant Intangible
(In £s million) and equipment assets Depreciation Amortisation and equipment assets
UK 24 5 23                 3 29 5
Germany 14 29 22                 2 16 369 
Rest of Western Europe 8 47 10 2 4 –
US – – – – – – 
Rest of the World 29 294 39                 2 26 1
75 375 94                 9 75 375
Geographical analysis of assets and liabilities by destination of sales
2007 2006
(In £s million) Assets Liabilities Net Assets Assets Liabilities Net Assets
UK 875 (646) 229 885 (670) 215
Germany 1,754 (301) 1,453 1,659 (310) 1,349
Rest of Western Europe 1,193 (202) 991 1,137 (252) 885
US 1,012 (119) 893 4 (1) 3
Rest of the World 3,019 (388) 2,631 2,685 (300) 2,385
7,853 (1,656) 6,197 6,370 (1,533) 4,837
Unallocated assets and liabilities:
Cash and cash equivalents 380 – 380 263 – 263
Borrowings – (5,120) (5,120) – (4,052) (4,052)
Retirement benefit asset/(liability) 602 (397) 205 397 (434) (37)
Taxation 102 (475) (373) 84 (407) (323)
Derivative financial instruments 71 (219) (148) 29 (119) (90)
9,008 (7,867) 1,141 7,143 (6,545) 598
Geographical analysis of assets and liabilities by location of business unit
2007 2006
(In £s million) Assets Liabilities Net Assets Assets Liabilities Net Assets
UK 947 (674) 273 937 (720) 217
Germany 2,236 (326) 1,910 2,027 (320) 1,707
Rest of Western Europe 1,053 (208) 845 1,028 (243) 785
US 1,025 (126) 899 4 (1) 3
Rest of the World 2,592 (322) 2,270 2,374 (249) 2,125
7,853 (1,656) 6,197 6,370 (1,533) 4,837 80 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
2. Proﬁt before taxation
Proﬁt before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting): 
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Raw materials and consumables used 643 641
Employment costs (note 4) 471 468
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 88 94
Amortisation of intangible assets 27 9
Operating lease charges:
– plant and equipment 2 2 
– other assets 11 10 
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 22 (18)
Write-down of inventories 5 3
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) –
Repairs and maintenance costs 19 24
Impairment of trade receivables 1 (1)
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of the Company 0.9 0.9
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of associates of the Company 2.2 2.4
Fees for other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4
3.5 3.7
Other services relating to taxation 1.3 1.1
Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.2 0.1
Other services 0.1 – 
5.1 4.9
Of the above fees £0.6 million (2006: £0.1 million) has been capitalised in the balance sheet.
Subsequent to the publication of our 2006 results, and following the publication of further technical guidance, the 2006 analysis 
of fees payable to our auditors has been restated to reclassify £1.2 million of fees for work related to Sarbanes-Oxley s404 attestation.
This amount has been reclassiﬁed from fees for other services supplied pursuant to legislation and has been included within audit fees 
in respect of the accounts of the Company (£0.3 million) and of the associates of the Company (£0.9 million). 
It is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund to appoint the auditors to the scheme. The Board 
of Trustees acts independently of Group management. The fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of the audit of the Imperial
Tobacco Pension Fund were £26,400 (2006: £23,500).
3. Restructuring costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Employment related (mainly termination) – 23
Fixed asset write offs and impairment – 17 
Other operating charges – 5
– 45
There were no restructuring costs in the year ended 30 September 2007.
In 2006 restructuring costs were primarily in respect of the closure of our Liverpool and Lahr factories. www.imperial-tobacco.com 81
Financial Statements
4. Directors and employees
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Employment costs
Wages and salaries 343 340
Social security costs 58 61
Pension costs (note 18) 54 51
Share-based payments (note 21) 16 16
471 468
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent the only related party transactions
requiring disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 65. These disclosures form part
of the ﬁnancial statements. 
Average number of persons employed by the Group by location during the year
2007 2006
UK 2,002 2,425
Germany 2,120 2,328
Rest of Western Europe 1,463 1,443
US 417 39
Rest of the World 8,219 8,251
14,221 14,486 
5. Net ﬁnance costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Interest on bank deposits (14) (13)
Expected return on retirement benefit assets (203) (188)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments (101) (82)
Investment income (318) (283)
Interest on bank and other loans 251 201
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 149 142
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 99 83
Finance costs 499 426
Net finance costs 181 143
Reconciliation from net ﬁnance costs to adjusted net ﬁnance costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported net finance costs 181 143
Expected return on retirement benefit assets 203 188
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities (149) (142)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 101 82
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments (99) (83)
Adjusted net finance costs 237 188 82 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
6. Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 30% (2006: 30%) 120 148
Overseas taxation 172 164
Total current tax 292 312
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 (2)
Total tax charge 325 310
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported proﬁt before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure 
of earnings disclosed in note 8.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported taxation 325 310 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired trademarks (10) – 
Tax on restructuring costs – 16 
Tax on retirement benefits net financing income (15) (16)
Tax on fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 10 – 
Adjusted tax charge 310 310 
Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year
The tax on the Group’s proﬁt before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 
as follows:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Profit before tax 1,237 1,168 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2006: 30%) 371 350
Tax effects of:
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (51) (24)
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 3 6
Items not deductible for tax purposes 9 2 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (7) (24)
Total tax charge 325 310
Factors that may affect future tax charges
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group is able to control the source and timing
of future remittances. The Group currently has no plans to remit dividends which would result in a material tax cost.
Movement on current tax account
(In £s million) 2007 2006
As at 1 October (259) (191)
Exchange movements (1) 1
Charged to income statement (292) (312)
Credited to equity 5 – 
Cash paid 320 236
Other movements 10 7 
As at 30 September (217) (259)
Analysis of current tax account
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Current tax assets 50 13 
Current tax liabilities (267) (272)
(217) (259) www.imperial-tobacco.com 83
Financial Statements
7. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2006 of 43.5p per share (2005: 39.5p) 293 279
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 21.0p per share (2006: 18.5p) 141 127
434 406
A ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 48.5 pence per share has been proposed. This amounts to £326 million based 
on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2007. At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved the ﬁnal
dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability. 
8. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is based on the proﬁt for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company and the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares
purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account 
the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised. 
No instruments have been excluded from the calculation on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Earnings: basic and diluted 905 851
(In millions of shares)
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 673.8 696.3
Potentially dilutive share options 2.9 3.3
Shares for diluted earnings per share 676.7 699.6
(In pence)
Basic earnings per share 134.3 122.2
Diluted earnings per share 133.7 121.6
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share 
2007 2006
(In £s million unless otherwise indicated) EPS Earnings EPS Earnings
Reported basic 134.3 p 905 122.2 p 851
Amortisation of acquired trademarks 4.9 p 33 n/a n/a 
Restructuring costs – p – 4.2 p 29 
Retirement benefits net financing income (5.8)p (39) (4.3)p (30)
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 3.3 p 22 0.1 p 1
Adjusted 136.7 p 921 122.2 p 851 84 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
9. Intangible assets
2007
(In £s million) Goodwill Trademarks Software Total
Cost
As at 1 October 2006 3,446 508 34 3,988
Exchange movements 86 – – 86
Acquisitions (note 24) 305 670 – 975
Additions – 5 5 10
Disposals – – (1) (1)
As at 30 September 2007 3,837 1,183 38 5,058
Amortisation
As at 1 October 2006 – 58 20 78
Exchange movements – 4 – 4
Amortisation charge for the year – 23 4 27
Disposals – – (1) (1)
As at 30 September 2007 – 85 23 108
Net book value
As at 30 September 2007 3,837 1,098 15 4,950
As at 1 October 2006 3,446 450 14 3,910
2006
(In £s million) Goodwill Trademarks Software Total
Cost
As at 1 October 2005 3,449 149 29 3,627
Exchange movements (14) (9) (1) (24)
Acquisitions (note 24) 11 – – 11 
Additions – 368 7 375 
Disposals – – (1) (1)
As at 30 September 2006 3,446 508 34 3,988
Amortisation
As at 1 October 2005 – 55 18 73
Exchange movements – (3) – (3)
Amortisation charge for the year – 6 3 9 
Disposals – – (1) (1)
As at 30 September 2006 – 58 20 78
Net book value
As at 30 September 2006 3,446 450 14 3,910
As at 1 October 2005 3,449 94 11 3,554
Intangible amortisation is included within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Acquisition of Davidoff cigarette trademark
On 5 September 2006, the Group acquired the worldwide Davidoff cigarette trademark for a cash consideration of £368 million. 
The Group had been the long term licensee of the trademark following the acquisition of Reemtsma in 2002. Based on the fact that
Davidoff is an established international brand with global growth potential, the Directors consider that the Davidoff cigarette trademark 
has an indeﬁnite life and it is therefore not subject to amortisation. It is, however, subject to an annual impairment review under 
the requirements of IAS 36. www.imperial-tobacco.com 85
Financial Statements
9. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment review
Goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs), which have been 
identiﬁed according to the country of operation for distribution units, with manufacturing identiﬁed as a single separate unit. 
A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives, presented at CGU level, is shown as follows:
2007                                                2006
Intangible Intangible
assets with assets with
(In £s million) Goodwill indefinite lives Goodwill indefinite lives
UK 42 – 42 – 
Germany 1,196 29 1,164 28
Rest of Western Europe 354 48 345 47
US 296 – – – 
Rest of the World 1,594 301 1,549 293 
Manufacturing 355 – 346 – 
3,837 378 3,446 368
The goodwill in Germany and the Rest of the World arose principally on the acquisition of Reemtsma in 2002.
The goodwill in the United States arose on the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in 2007.
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications
that impairment may have arisen. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations
use cash ﬂow projections derived from three-year ﬁnancial budgets which are based on management’s experience and expectations 
and are approved by the Board annually. The compound annual growth rates implicit in these plans, which are used for the initial three
years in the value-in-use calculations, are shown below. Cash ﬂows beyond the three year period are extrapolated using the estimated
long term growth rate of 3% per annum. A pre-tax discount rate of 10% is used, in line with the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. 
No impairment charges were recognised in 2007 (2006: nil).
Initial Long term
growth rate
1
growth rate
2
UK 6.3% 3.0%
Germany 2.0% 3.0%
Rest of Western Europe 7.9% 3.0%
US 16.8% 3.0%
Rest of the World 7.6% 3.0%
1 
Weighted average compound annual growth rate used for ﬁrst three years in value-in-use calculations.
2 
Weighted average compound annual growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the initial three years. 86 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
10. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures and
2007 Plant and motor
(In £s million) Property equipment vehicles Total
Cost
As at 1 October 2006 157 780 159 1,096
Exchange movements 6 16 4 26 
Acquisitions (note 24) 1 9 – 10 
Additions 6 98 24 128 
Disposals (2) (50) (19) (71)
As at 30 September 2007 168 853 168 1,189
Depreciation
As at 1 October 2006 12 415 89 516
Exchange movements – 10 3 13 
Charge for the year 6 61 21 88
Disposals (1) (48) (19) (68)
As at 30 September 2007 17 438 94 549
Net book value
As at 30 September 2007 151 415 74 640
As at 1 October 2006 145 365 70 580
Fixtures and
2006 Plant and motor
(In £s million) Property equipment vehicles Total
Cost
As at 1 October 2005 166 776 151 1,093 
Exchange movements (2) (14) (1) (17)
Reclassifications – (2) 2 – 
Acquisitions (note 24) – 1 1 2 
Additions 2 52 21 75
Disposals (9) (33) (15) (57)
As at 30 September 2006 157 780 159 1,096
Depreciation
As at 1 October 2005 3 370 78 451
Exchange movements – (5) (1) (6)
Charge for the year 6 67 21 94
Impairment 6 10 1 17
Disposals (3) (27) (10) (40)
As at 30 September 2006 12 415 89 516
Net book value
As at 30 September 2006 145 365 70 580
As at 1 October 2005 163 406 73 642
Land and buildings at net book value
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Freehold 140 133
Long leasehold 11 12
151 145
No assets (2006: net book value of £1 million) are pledged as security for liabilities. www.imperial-tobacco.com 87
Financial Statements
11. Investments in associates
(In £s million) 2007 2006
As at 1 October 5 5 
Impairment (1) – 
As at 30 September 4 5
12. Inventories
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Raw materials 290 259
Work in progress 13 14 
Finished inventories 505 410
Other inventories 190 106 
998 789 
Other inventories comprise mainly duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because 
of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. Leaf tobacco held within raw materials
inventories at the balance sheet date will ordinarily be utilised within two years.
13. Trade and other receivables
2007 2006
(In £s million) Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade receivables 1,156 – 1,012 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (7) – (6) – 
Net trade receivables 1,149 – 1,006 – 
Other receivables 22 3 16 15 
Prepayments and accrued income 83 4 45 4 
1,254 7 1,067 19 
14. Cash and cash equivalents
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Cash at bank and in hand 364 246 
Short term deposits and other liquid assets 16 17 
380 263 
15. Trade and other payables
2007 2006
(In £s million) Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade payables 140 – 123 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 1,274 – 1,126 – 
Deferred consideration 8 – 8 – 
Other payables 53 1 70 1
Accruals and deferred income 118 4 106 4
1,593 5 1,433 5  88 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments
(i) Management of ﬁnancial risk
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, Group Treasury, that is responsible for the management of the ﬁnancial risks 
of the Group, together with its ﬁnancing and liquidity requirements. It does not operate as a proﬁt centre, nor does it enter into
speculative transactions. The Group Treasury Committee oversees the operation of Group Treasury in accordance with terms 
of reference set out by the Board. The Group Treasurer reports on a regular basis to the Board, including the provision of monthly
treasury summaries.
Accounting for derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value
being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisﬁes the hedge accounting rules under IFRS. The Group hedges
underlying exposures in an efﬁcient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead 
to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, the Group has decided not to apply
hedge accounting for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments as permitted under IAS 39. The information contained in sections (ii) and (iii)
below shows the underlying borrowing position before the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. However, the Group
does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign operations.
See section (v) for details.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading denominated in foreign currencies, 
the foreign currency borrowings (both pre and post cross currency swaps), the translation of the net assets of its foreign operations 
into the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and foreign currency denominated costs.
In 2007, 73% of net revenue (2006: 74%) and 61% of proﬁt from operations (2006: 62%) was in international markets. Certain sales 
in these markets are invoiced in currencies other than the functional currency of the selling company, in particular Taiwanese dollars. 
The Group uses foreign currency derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as forward foreign exchange contracts, to reduce exposure to
the risk that these sales will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. As at 30 September 2007, there were £20 million 
(2006: £32 million) notional outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts, the fair value of which was £0.4 million (2006: £1.4 million).
The material foreign currency denominated costs include the purchase of tobacco leaf, which is sourced from various countries 
but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging materials which are sourced from various countries and purchased in a number
of currencies.
The Group issues debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution and uses derivative ﬁnancial
instruments, such as cross currency swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when consolidated into the Group
ﬁnancial statements. A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations is managed
through borrowings (post cross currency swaps) denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to its borrowings and cash deposits. The most material risk is in respect of its borrowings.
Group Treasury monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which includes the fair value of the principal amounts due 
to be exchanged at maturity under cross currency swaps and excludes the fair value of interest rate derivatives and interest accruals. 
As at 30 September 2007, approximately 12% (2006: 21%) of adjusted net debt was denominated in sterling, 70% in euro (2006: 79%) 
and 18% in US dollars (2006: nil). Accordingly, the Group’s ﬁnancial results are currently exposed to gains or losses arising from ﬂuctuations 
in sterling, euro and US dollar interest rates. In order to manage its interest rate risk on the borrowings, the Group separates the borrowing
activities from its interest rate risk management decisions by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time 
of execution and using derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps, to change the debt into 
the desired currency and into ﬂoating interest rate shortly after issue. The Group then transacts interest rate swaps at other times for different
notional amounts and different maturities to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk. As at 30 September 2007, 39% (2006: 42%)
of adjusted net debt was at a ﬂoating rate of interest and 61% (2006: 58%) at a ﬁxed rate of interest (including collars). www.imperial-tobacco.com 89
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk due to its trade receivables due from customers and cash deposits and ﬁnancial instruments
transacted with ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group has some signiﬁcant concentrations of customer credit risk. However, the Group has implemented policies to ensure that sales
of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and obtains guarantees or other means of credit support to reduce
the risk where this is considered to be necessary.
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk from ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has placed cash deposits and entered into
derivative ﬁnancial instruments with a diversiﬁed group of ﬁnancial institutions with suitable credit ratings in order to manage its credit risk
to any one ﬁnancial institution.
Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk arising from having insufﬁcient funds to meet the ﬁnancing needs of the Group.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and short term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the Group 
has sufﬁcient available funds for the forecast requirements of the Group. As at 30 September 2007 the Group had £777 million (2006:
£504 million) of undrawn committed facilities, maturing in 2010. These ﬁgures exclude the facilities arranged to ﬁnance the potential
Altadis acquisition.
As well as forecasting and monitoring the Group’s core liquidity needs, the Group Treasury function is in regular dialogue with subsidiary
companies to ensure their liquidity needs are met.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be ﬂuctuations in the price of tobacco leaf.
As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations inﬂuence
tobacco plantings in those countries where tobacco is grown. Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns 
that may affect crop quality or supply and so lead to changes in price.
The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf from a number of different countries, sourcing from various
counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held.
(ii) Borrowings
The Group’s borrowings at the balance sheet date are as follows:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Current borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,067 85 
Capital market issuance:
€1,500m 6.25% notes due 2007 – 1,037
Total current borrowings 1,067 1,122 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans 1,845 2,041 
Capital market issuance:
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 304 322 
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 357 361 
€1,200m 4.375% notes due 2013 867 – 
£450m 5.5% notes due 2016 470 – 
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 210 206 
Total non-current borrowings 4,053 2,930
Total borrowings 5,120 4,052
Current borrowings and non-current borrowings at 30 September 2007 include interest payable of £4 million (2006: £20 million) 
and £84 million (2006: £22 million) respectively. 90 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iii) Currency analysis and effective interest rates of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The currency denomination, the maturities and the effective interest rates of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities as at 30 September
2007 are as follows:
Maturity
Less than Between Between More than Weighted
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total average
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Assets/(liabilities) (before the 
impact of cross currency 
swaps and interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash equivalents
Sterling 98 5.3 98 5.3 
Euro 142 3.5 142 3.5 
US dollars 40 4.3 40 4.3 
Other 100 4.4 100 4.4 
Total cash and cash equivalents380 380 
Weighted average receivable interest rate4.3 4.3 
Trade receivables
Sterling 546 – 546 – 
Euro 375 – 375 – 
US dollars 54 – 54 – 
Other 181 – 181 – 
Total trade receivables 1,156 – 1,156 – 
Trade payables
Sterling (45)– (45)– 
Euro (40)– (40)– 
US dollars (19)– (19)– 
Other (36) – (36) – 
Total trade payables (140) – (140) – 
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (25)4.3 (656)6.8 (680)5.7 (1,361)6.2 
Euro (91)4.6 (1,546)4.8 (867)4.3 (2,504)4.6 
US dollars (950) 5.6 (304) 7.0 (1,254) 5.9
Other (1)5.5 (1)5.5 
Total borrowings (1,067) (304) (2,202) (1,547) (5,120)
Borrowings – by class of instrument
Bank borrowings (1,067)5.5 (1,845)5.1 (2,912)5.3 
Capital market issuance (304) 7.0 (357) 6.8 (1,547) 4.9 (2,208) 5.5 
Total borrowings (1,067) (304) (2,202) (1,547) (5,120) 
Weighted average payable interest rate 5.5 7.0 5.4 4.9 5.4 
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are ﬂoating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in the case 
of sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuance in place at 30 September 2007
bears interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a ﬁxed rate until maturity.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in section (iv) below. www.imperial-tobacco.com 91
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iii) Currency analysis and effective interest rates of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities continued
The currency denomination, the maturities and the effective interest rates of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities as at 30 September
2006 were as follows:
Maturity
Less than Between Between More than Weighted
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total average
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Assets/(liabilities) (before the impact 
of cross currency swaps and 
interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash equivalents
Sterling 67 4.3 67 4.3 
Euro 99 2.5 99 2.5 
Other 97 3.3 97 3.3 
Total cash and cash equivalents263 263 
Weighted average receivable interest rate3.2 3.2 
Trade receivables
Sterling 573 – 573 – 
Euro 256 – 256 – 
Other 183 – 183 – 
Total trade receivables 1,012 – 1,012 – 
Trade payables
Sterling (37)– (37)– 
Euro (55)– (55)– 
Other (31)– (31)– 
Total trade payables (123)– (123)– 
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (24)5.3 (501)5.3 (567)6.6 (1,092)6.0 
Euro (1,094) 6.2 (1) 9.2 (1,539) 3.5 (2,634) 4.6 
US dollars (1)5.8 (322)7.1 (323)7.1 
Other (3)4.3 (3)4.3 
Total borrowings (1,122) (1) (2,362) (567) (4,052)
Borrowings – by class of instrument
Bank borrowings (85) 4.8 (1) 9.2 (2,040) 3.9 (2,126) 4.0 
Capital market issuance (1,037) 6.2 (322) 7.1 (567) 6.6 (1,926) 6.5 
Total borrowings (1,122) (1) (2,362) (567) (4,052)
Weighted average payable interest rate 6.1 9.2 4.4 6.6 5.2 
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are ﬂoating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in the case 
of sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuance in place at 30 September 2006
bears interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a ﬁxed rate until maturity.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in section (iv) below. 92 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value
being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisﬁes the hedge accounting rules under IFRS. The Group hedges
underlying exposures in an efﬁcient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead 
to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, the Group has decided not to apply
hedge accounting for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments as permitted under IAS 39.
The Group separates the borrowing activities from its interest rate risk management decisions by issuing debt in the market or markets
that are most appropriate at the time of execution and using derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and interest
rate swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency and into ﬂoating interest rate shortly after issue.
The following table sets out the derivative ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group as at 30 September 2007, and demonstrates 
the Group’s use of those derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage the Group’s foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate
exposure. The table presents the nominal value of such instruments used to calculate the contractual payments under such contracts,
analysed by maturity date, together with the related weighted average interest rate where relevant. Some of the interest rate swaps 
have embedded options and assumptions have been made based on market information and third party advice at 30 September 2007 
to determine whether such options are likely to be exercised in order to determine the probable maturity date.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution.
Matures in financial year ending in
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2007 £m
Capital market issuance
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 294 294
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 350 350
€1,200m 4.375% notes due 2013 837 837
£450m 5.5% notes due 2016 450 450
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 200 200
Interest accruals and discounts 10 76077
Total capital market issuance 304 357 1,5472,208
Bank loans and overdrafts, 
borrowed at LIBOR (or equivalent) 
plus a margin at the time of borrowing 1,063 1,841 2,904
Interest accruals 4 4 8
Total bank borrowings 1,067 1,845 2,912
Total borrowings 1,067 304 1,845 357 1,547 5,120 16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and interest basis.
Fair value as at 
Financial year ending in 30 September 2007
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling, pay euro:
Notional amount 350
1
650
1
1,000 92
Sterling interest rate to receive (%) 6.7 5.6 6.0
Interest margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 0.8 1.0 
Receive US dollar, pay sterling:
Notional amount 294
1
294 75
US dollar interest rate to receive (%) 7.1 7.1
Sterling interest margin over LIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 1.3
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount 837 837 34
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 4.3 4.3
Weighted average margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 0.6 0.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to create the desired interest rate risk.
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 120 15
2
110 50
3
29513
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 6.4 4.2 6.1 4.3 5.8
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 63 192 98 1,545
4
1,552
5
3,450 70 7
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 3.1 5.1 3.7 3.9 4.2 4.1
US dollar interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 275 196
6
245
7
716 7 
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 5.1 5.3 5.6 5.4
Collars purchased:
Notional amount 118
8
98
9
216 1 
Total fair value of derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2007 71 219 
Therefore, the overall effect of the interest rate swaps transacted as at 30 September 2007 that were live at this date is to convert 
£2,728 million of borrowings into a ﬁxed rate with £216 million of borrowings ﬁxed within a set range, see below.
£96 million has been pledged as collateral in respect of derivatives with negative fair values.
1
Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2
The following trade is included within this balance:
£15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. This trade is expected 
to be cancelled in March 2010.
3
The following trade is included within this balance:
£50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every ﬁve years throughout the life of the trade. This trade is expected 
to be cancelled in April 2016.
www.imperial-tobacco.com 93
Financial Statements 94 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
4
The following trades are included within this balance:
€75 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
€375 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2009.
5
The following trades are included within this balance:
€500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
€900 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
6
The following trades are included within this balance:
$400 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
7
The following trades are included within this balance:
$500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
8
$240 million interest rate collar maturing in 2009 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.55% to 6.00%.
9
$200 million interest rate collar maturing in 2011 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.78% to 6.00%.
The following table sets out the derivative ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group as at 30 September 2006.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution.
Matures in financial year ending in
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2006 £m
Capital market issuance
€1,500m 6.25% notes due 2007 1,018 1,018
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 321 321
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 350 350
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 200 200
Interest accruals and discounts 19 1 17 37
Total capital market issuance 1,037 322 567 1,926
Bank loans and overdrafts, 
borrowed at LIBOR (or equivalent) 
plus a margin at the time of borrowing 85 1 2,038 2,124
Interest accruals 22
Total bank borrowings 85 1 2,040 2,126
Total borrowings 1,122 1 322 2,040 567 4,052 www.imperial-tobacco.com 95
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and interest basis.
Fair value as at 
Financial year ending in 30 September 2006
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling, pay euro:
Notional amount 550
1
550 5 20
Sterling interest rate to receive (%) 6.5 6.5
Interest margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.2 1.2
Receive US dollar, pay sterling:
Notional amount 321
1
321 45
US dollar interest rate to receive (%) 7.1 7.1
Sterling interest margin over LIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 1.3
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount 1,018 1,018 10
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 6.1 6.1
Weighted average margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.2 1.2
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to create the desired interest rate risk.
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 50 140
2
50
3
185
4
425 16
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 6.6 6.1 4.3 5.3 5.6
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 997 61 187 95
5
1,586
6
2,926 14 38
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 4.8 3.1 5.1 3.7 3.9 4.3
Total fair value of derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2006 29 119
Therefore, the overall effect of the interest rate swaps transacted as at 30 September 2006 that were live at this date is to convert 
£1,886 million of borrowings into a ﬁxed rate.
£37 million has been pledged as collateral in respect of derivatives with negative fair values.
1
Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2
The following trade is included within this balance:
£20 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in March 2008.
3
The following trade is included within this balance:
£50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every ﬁve years throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2011.
4
The following trades are included within this balance:
£60 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in June 2016.
£15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2016.
£25 million forward start ﬁve-year swaption starting October 2006 at 5.5% at the counterparty’s option.
5
The following trade is included within this balance:
€140 million forward start three-year interest rate swap starting in March 2007.
6
The following trades are included within this balance:
€200 million forward start ﬁve-year and €250 million forward ten-year interest rate swaps starting in March 2007.
€1,189 million forward start ﬁve-year and €220 million forward start seven-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2007.
€125 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swap starting in April 2012. 96 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
16. Borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
(v) Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 30 September 2007 external loans with a fair value of €3,081 million and $800 million (2006: €3,720 million and $nil) and permanent
intragroup loans with a fair value of €4,284 million (2006: nil) have been designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign
operations and are being used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses 
on the retranslation of these borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments 
in the Group’s foreign operations.
In addition, cross currency swaps of €1,516 million (2006: nil) are considered to provide commercial hedges against investments 
in the Group’s foreign operations. However, since we do not apply hedge accounting for our derivative ﬁnancial instruments the fair value
gains and losses on these derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
(vi) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all ﬁnancial liabilities that are carried in the ﬁnancial
statements at amounts other than fair values.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are approximate to their
fair value and so are excluded from the analysis below. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are excluded as they are carried at fair value.
2007                                                 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 
(In £s million) amount value amount value
Current borrowings
Sterling 25 25 24 24 
Euro 91 91 1,094 1,129 
US dollars 950 950 1 1 
Other 1 1 3 3 
Total current borrowings 1,067 1,067 1,122 1,157 
Non-current borrowings
Sterling 1,336 1,291 1,068 1,103 
Euro 2,413 2,363 1,540 1,540 
US dollars 304 314 322 332 
Total non-current borrowings 4,053 3,968 2,930 2,975 
Within the table above it is only the capital market issues that have a fair value different to the carrying value and this has been calculated
by comparing the current trading levels of the capital market issues to par. www.imperial-tobacco.com 97
Financial Statements
17. Deferred tax assets/liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate
offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Deferred tax assets 52 71 
Deferred tax liabilities (208) (135)
(156) (64)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Deferred tax assets 19 22 
Deferred tax liabilities (17) (38)
2 (16)
Deferred tax assets
Excess of 
depreciation Other
over capital Retirement Fair value temporary 
(In £s million) allowances benefits losses differences Total
As at 1 October 2006 (23) 57 – 37 71 
Credited/(charged) to income statement (8) – – (1) (9)
Credited/(charged) to equity – (10) – – (10)
Transfers 8 (4) – (4) – 
As at 30 September 2007 (23) 43 – 32 52
Excess of 
depreciation Other
over capital Retirement Fair value temporary 
(In £s million) allowances benefits losses differences Total
As at 1 October 2005 – 39 – 23 62 
Credited/(charged) to income statement 21 (3) – 3 21 
Credited/(charged) to equity – 4 – – 4 
Transfers (44) 17 – 11 (16)
As at 30 September 2006 (23) 57 – 37 71 
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of capital Other
allowances over Retirement Fair value temporary 
(In £s million) depreciation benefits gains differences Total
As at 1 October 2006 (27) (113) 22 (17) (135)
Credited/(charged) to income statement (16) (11) (15) 18 (24)
Credited/(charged) to equity – (49) – – (49)
Transfers (8) 4 – 4 – 
As at 30 September 2007 (51) (169) 7 5 (208)
Excess of capital Other
allowances over Retirement Fair value temporary 
(In £s million) depreciation benefits gains differences Total
As at 1 October 2005 (72) (77) 22 16 (111)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 1 (8) – (12) (19)
Credited/(charged) to equity – (28) – 7 (21)
Transfers 44 – – (28) 16 
As at 30 September 2006 (27) (113) 22 (17) (135)
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax beneﬁt through 
future taxable proﬁts is probable. No deferred tax assets for tax losses have been recognised at 30 September 2007 (2006: nil). 
Potential deferred tax assets of £9 million as at 30 September 2007 (2006: £13 million) have not been recognised due to the uncertainty 
of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions. 98 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
18. Retirement beneﬁt schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁt schemes for its employees, including both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution
schemes. The Group’s two principal schemes are deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and are operated by Imperial Tobacco Limited in the UK 
and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany. The UK scheme’s assets are held in trustee administered funds while the German
scheme is unfunded.
The results of the most recent available actuarial valuations for the principal Group schemes (outside Germany) have been updated 
to 30 September 2007 by Watson Wyatt Limited, actuaries and consultants, in order to determine the amounts to be included 
in the balance sheet and income statement. Actuarial valuations of the pension liabilities of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension
schemes were undertaken by Russ, Dr Zimmerman und Partner at 30 September 2007.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Current service cost 38 43 
Past service cost 2 – 
Losses from special termination benefits 16 4
Curtailment gains (6) – 
Defined benefit charges included in employment costs 50 47 
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 149 142 
Expected return on retirement benefit assets (203) (188)
Retirement benefits net financing income included in finance costs (note 5) (54) (46)
Total defined benefit scheme (income)/costs (4) 1 
Defined benefit charges in profit from operations 50 47 
Defined contribution charges in profit from operations 4 4 
Total pension costs in profit from operations (note 4) 54 51 
Pensions costs are charged to proﬁt from operations in the income statement as follows:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Cost of sales 29 27 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 13 13 
Administrative expenses 12 11 
54 51 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes – amounts recognised in the balance sheet
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Present value of funded obligations (2,648) (2,665)
Fair value of scheme assets 3,238 3,035 
590 370 
Present value of unfunded obligations (385) (407)
205 (37)
Recognised in the balance sheet as:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Retirement benefit assets 602 397 
Retirement benefit liabilities (397) (434)
205 (37) www.imperial-tobacco.com 99
Financial Statements
18. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes obligations – changes in present value
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Defined benefit obligation as at 1 October 3,072 3,007 
Current service cost 38 43 
Past service cost 2 – 
Interest cost 149 142 
Actuarial (gains)/losses (81) 44 
Contributions by employees 2 1 
Exchange movements 18 (5)
Benefits paid (177) (165)
Special termination benefits 16 7 
Curtailment gains (6) (2)
As at 30 September 3,033 3,072 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes assets – changes in fair value
(In £s million) 2007 2006
As at 1 October 3,035 2,828 
Expected return 203 188 
Actuarial gains 121 144 
Contributions by employees 2 1 
Contributions by employer 46 42 
Exchange movements 8 (3)
Benefits paid (177) (165)
As at 30 September 3,238 3,035 
The actual return on deﬁned beneﬁt scheme assets was £324 million (2006: £332 million).
Amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Net actuarial gains recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 202 100 
Cumulative net actuarial gains recognised in statement of recognised income and e xpense 403 201 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes – principal actuarial assumptions used
2007 UK Germany Other*
Discount rate 5.90% 5.30% 5.28%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.08% n/a 6.06%
Future salary increases 5.15% 3.00% 3.81%
Future pension increases 3.40% 1.90% 2.23%
Inflation 3.40% 1.90% 2.20%
2006 UK Germany Other*
Discount rate 5.10% 4.60% 4.62%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.99% n/a 5.97%
Future salary increases 4.85% 3.00% 3.81%
Future pension increases 3.10% 1.90% 2.23%
Inflation 3.10% 1.90% 2.15%
*Values shown are the weighted averages of the rates used in the calculations for schemes outside the UK and Germany. 100 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
18. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes – principal actuarial assumptions used continued
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each territory,
and are provided in the table below for the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK and Germany, which in aggregate represent 92% (2006: 92%)
of the Group’s total deﬁned beneﬁt scheme obligations at the year end. The average life expectancy, in years, of a pensioner retiring at age
65 is as follows:
UK Germany
2007 Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65 (years):
Member currently aged 65 19.5 21.3 17.9 22.0 
Member currently aged 50 20.6 22.2 19.9 24.0 
UK Germany
2006 Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65 (years):
Member currently aged 65 18.4 19.9 17.7 21.8 
Member currently aged 50 19.1 20.7 19.8 23.8 
Major categories of scheme assets and their expected rates of return
UK Other*
Percentage
Expected Percentage Expected of total
2007 return per of total UK return per other
(In £s million unless otherwise indicated) annum Fair value assets annum Fair value assets
Equities 8.1% 1,794 60.0% 7.3% 111 44.8%
Bonds 5.1% 837 28.0% 4.8% 111 44.8%
Property 6.8% 329 11.0% 5.5% 18 7.2%
Other 4.9% 30 1.0% 4.8% 8 3.2%
2,990 100.0% 248 100.0%
UK Other*
Percentage
Expected Percentage Expected of total
2006 return per of total UK return per other
(In £s million unless otherwise indicated) annum Fair value assets annum Fair value assets
Equities 8.0% 1,767 63.0% 7.8% 101 44.5%
Bonds 4.5% 645 23.0% 4.3% 104 45.8%
Property 6.7% 365 13.0% – – – 
Other 4.1% 28 1.0% 5.6% 22 9.7%
2,805 100.0% 227 100.0%
*Values shown are the weighted averages of the rates used in the calculations for schemes outside the UK. £4 million (2006: £3 million) of assets related to the German unfunded
schemes are not shown separately.
The derivation of the overall expected return on assets reﬂects the actual asset allocation at the measurement date combined with 
an expected return for each asset class. The bond return is based on the prevailing return available on ﬁxed interest gilts. The return 
on equities and property is based on a number of factors including:
• the income yield at the measurement date;
• the long term growth prospects for the economy in general;
• the long term relationship between each asset class and bond returns; and
• the movement in market indices since the previous measurement date.
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund has no investments (2006: investments
valued at approximately £7 million) in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s own ﬁnancial instruments.  www.imperial-tobacco.com 101
Financial Statements
18. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
History of the plans for current and prior years
(In £s million) 2007 2006 2005
As at 30 September
Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,033 3,072 3,007 
Fair value of total plan assets 3,238 3,035 2,828 
Net total (surplus)/deficit on plans (205) 37 179 
Experience adjustments on total plan liabilities (19) – (9)
Experience adjustments on total plan assets 121 144 333 
In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 in December 2004, the disclosures above are determined
prospectively from the 2005 reporting period.
The main UK Group scheme is the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the ITPF). An actuarial valuation of the ITPF (the triennial valuation,
for funding purposes) was made at 31 March 2004 by Watson Wyatt Limited. The assumptions which had the most signiﬁcant effect
when valuing the ITPF’s liabilities were those relating to the rate of investment return on the ITPF’s existing assets, the rates of increase 
in pay and pensions and estimated mortality rates. On the basis that the ITPF is continuing it was assumed that the future investment
returns relative to market values at the valuation date would be 5.85% per annum and that pay and pension increases would average
4.5% and 2.75% respectively. The assets were brought into account at their market value.
At 31 March 2004 the market value of the assets of the ITPF was £2,248 million. The total assets were sufﬁcient to cover 108% 
of the beneﬁts that had accrued to members for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. However, the assets 
were not sufﬁcient to cover future service beneﬁts for current members and, as a result of this deﬁciency, the Group recommenced
payment of employer’s contributions during the ﬁnancial year 2004/05 at the level of £10 million per year as set by the ITPF Actuary. 
The ﬁnancial position of the ITPF and the level of contributions to be paid will be reviewed at the next triennial valuation, which 
is expected to be completed by the end of 2007 and will consider the scheme as at 31 March 2007. 
Assuming the level of contributions to the ITPF remains at £10 million following completion of the ITPF triennial valuation (which may 
not prove to be the case) the Group expects to contribute a total of £20 million to its funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the year 
to 30 September 2008. 
19. Provisions 
(In £s million) Restructuring Other Total
As at 1 October 2006 63 32 95 
Exchange movements 1 1 2 
Additional provisions charged to the income statement – 7 7 
Amounts used (39) (7) (46)
As at 30 September 2007 25 33 58 
Analysed as:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Current 26 56 
Non-current 32 39 
58 95 
The restructuring provision relates to factory closures announced in prior years. The provision will unwind over several years as termination
payments are made over an extended number of years in a number of EU countries. 
Other provisions principally relate to holiday pay, employee beneﬁts and commercial legal claims. These liabilities are expected 
to crystallise within the next ﬁve years.  102 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
20. Share capital
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2006: 1,000,000,000) 5,604 100
Issued and fully paid
729,200,921 ordinary shares of 10p each 73 73
The authorised share capital was increased to 56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each at the Extraordinary General Meeting
held on 13 August 2007 in connection with the proposed acquisition of Altadis.
21. Share schemes
The Group recognised total expenses of £16 million (2006: £16 million) related to share-based payment transactions during the year 
(note 4). The Group operates a number of share-based employee beneﬁt schemes.
International Sharesave Plan
Under the Plan the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares (ADSs) in the Company 
to non-UK employees who enter into a savings contract. The price at which options may be offered varies depending on local laws, 
but for ordinary shares will not be less than 80% of the mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share on the London Stock
Exchange on the day prior to invitation. In respect of ADSs the price will not be less than 80% of the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange on the same day. The options may normally be exercised during the six months after expiry of the savings contract, three years
after entering the Plan. The majority of awards under the International Sharesave Plan are equity-settled.
Under the UK Sharesave Scheme, which is part of the International Plan, the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares 
in the Company to UK employees who enter into an HM Revenue and Customs approved Save as You Earn (SAYE) savings contract. 
The options may normally be exercised during the six months after expiry of the SAYE contract, either three or ﬁve years after entering 
the Scheme. The UK Sharesave Scheme is equity-settled. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards speciﬁed as a percentage of basic salary have been made to Executive Directors 
under the LTIP , with awards at a lower level made to other senior executives. The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject
to the satisfaction of speciﬁed performance criteria, measured over a three year performance period. All grants are at the absolute
discretion of the Remuneration Committee, with no employee having the right to receive such a grant. Further information relating 
to the performance criteria and the terms of the scheme are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. All awards under the LTIP 
are equity-settled.
In respect of the November 2003 – November 2006 award, based on earnings per share, 100% of the award vested in full 
on 18 November 2006.
In respect of the November 2004 – November 2007 award, based on earnings per share, 91.8% of the award is expected to vest 
on 9 November 2007. www.imperial-tobacco.com 103
Financial Statements
21. Share schemes continued
Share Matching Scheme
The Share Matching Scheme is designed to encourage employees to acquire and retain Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.
The majority of the awards under the Share Matching Scheme are equity-settled. 
Executive Directors and most of the Group’s management may elect to invest any proportion of their gross bonus (capped at 100% of
base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75% for the other Executive Directors) in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
ordinary shares to be held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trusts. Provided that the shares elected for are left in the Trusts for three years, and
the individual remains in employment with the Group, the participant will receive the original shares plus additional shares. The matching
ratio for bonuses is 1:1 to encourage Directors and managers to build a meaningful shareholding in the Group. The matching of the
Executive Directors’ shares is subject to performance criteria as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
In 2002, to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company (of Great Britain and Ireland) Limited, all employees 
of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase
up to £3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares and lodge them with the Employee Beneﬁt Trusts. Provided these
shares were left in the Trusts, the lodged shares were matched on a sliding scale from 20% for one year’s retention to a maximum 
of 100% if they were retained for the full ﬁve years to 12 August 2007. The Centenary Scheme is equity-settled. 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs)
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Beneﬁt Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Beneﬁt
Trust (the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, by subscription or purchase, from
funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of LTIPs and on the vesting of the share matching awards.
At 30 September 2007, the Trusts held 4.8 million (2006: 4.2 million) ordinary shares with a nominal value of £475,574, all acquired 
in the open market at a cost of £94.2 million (2006: £69.5 million). The acquisition of shares by the Trusts has been ﬁnanced by a gift 
of £19.2 million and an interest free loan of £158.9 million. None of the ESOT shares has been allocated to employees or Directors 
as at 30 September 2007. All ﬁnance costs and administration expenses connected with the ESOTs are charged to the income statement 
as they accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation 
of basic earnings per share.
Cash-settled scheme liabilities
As noted above certain awards are cash-settled. The total liability recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 September 2007 in respect 
of cash-settled awards was £0.4 million (2006: £0.4 million).  104 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
21 Share schemes continued
Year from 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2007
Outstanding Outstanding Exercisable Lapsed / Outstanding Exercisable
at at start at start Exercised Cancelled at end at end
Date of grant Granted 1 October 2005 of year of year in year in year of year of year
Sharesave options
UK
7 June 2001 758,286 218,131 14,165 14,165 (14,165) – – –
31 May 2002 820,132 331,730 298,074 – (281,721) (1,761) 14,592 14,592
4 June 2003 638,919 534,653 192,923 9,245 (31,455) (8,133) 153,335 –
26 May 2004 423,863 391,384 366,049 – (224,726) (19,556) 121,767 12,954
23 May 2005 395,313 392,265 372,053 – (26,500) (38,282) 307,271 –
22 May 2006 322,347 – 318,670 – (4,650) (29,219) 284,801 –
29 May 2007 292,931–––– (1,283) 291,648 –
International
18 June 2002 65,897 4,339––––––
4 June – 17 June 2003 639,579 497,109 116,302 116,302 (79,182) (37,120) – –
26 May – 4 June 2004 162,479 152,597 138,288 – (115,337) (10,556) 12,395 12,395
23 May – 1 June 2005 171,189 169,168 159,122 – (1,577) (9,014) 148,531 –
22 May – 1 June 2006 301,612 – 295,842 – (200) (14,634) 281,008 –
29 May – 8 June 2007 268,757–––– (1,356) 267,401 –
US**
17 June 2003 7,028 7,028––––––
4 June 2004 2,580 2,580 2,580 – (2,440) (140) – –
1 June 2005 5,818 5,818 5,818 – – (2,928) 2,890 –
1 June 2006 4,312 – 4,312––– 4,312 –
8 June 2007 41,550––––– 41,550 –
5,322,592 2,706,802 2,284,198 139,712 (781,953) (173,982) 1,931,501 39,941
Conditional awards
Share matching scheme
12 August 2002 – Centenary Scheme 231,941 181,972 163,993 – (159,776) (4,217) – –
29 January 2002 650,767–––––––
29 January 2003 762,883 573,009––––––
29 January 2004 999,733 835,815 746,787 – (738,095) (8,692) – –
29 January 2005 832,855 797,971 722,273 – (20,932) (19,457) 681,884 –
15 February 2006 796,653 – 778,153 – (8,546) (32,895) 736,712 –
15 February 2007 650,967––– (709) (8,415) 641,843 –
4,925,799 2,388,767 2,411,206 – (928,058) (73,676) 2,060,439 –
Long term incentive plan
25 November 2002 474,547 311,653––––––
18 November 2003 481,180 378,193 331,558 – (331,448) (110) – –
9 November 2004 355,861 343,071 302,866 – (4,321) (4,695) 293,850 –
2 November 2005 390,512 – 381,234 – (1,214) (1,634) 378,386 –
1 November 2006 354,369––– (428) (2,496) 351,445 –
2,056,469 1,032,917 1,015,658 – (337,411) (8,935) 1,023,681 –
Total options/awards 12,304,860 6,128,486 5,711,062 139,712 (2,047,422) (256,593) 5,015,621 39,941
** Granted as American Depositary Shares, each representing two ordinary shares and denominated in US dollars. www.imperial-tobacco.com 105
Financial Statements
21 Share schemes continued
Year from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2006* Year from 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2007*
Share price at Share price Exercise
date of exercise for Contractual at date of exercise Contractual price of options /
Share price shares exercised life of options / for shares exercised life of options / awards outstanding
at grant date during the year awards outstanding during the year awards outstanding at end of year
(in £ unless (in £ unless at end of year (in £ unless at end of year (in £ unless
Date of grant stated otherwise) stated otherwise) (months) stated otherwise) (months) stated otherwise)
Sharesave options
UK
7 June 2001 6.58 17.44 3 19.94 n/a n/a
31 May 2002 11.55 17.00 15 21.42 3 8.24
4 June 2003 10.79 18.01 26 20.61 16 8.22
26 May 2004 12.29 17.15 25 21.48 25 10.08
23 May 2005 14.79 17.99 36 21.38 25 11.73
22 May 2006 16.38 n/a 48 22.16 36 13.95
29 May 2007 21.47 n/a n/a n/a 50 17.22
International
18 June 2002 10.91 16.97 n/a n/a n/a n/a
4 June – 17 June 2003 10.40 – 10.79 17.95 4 19.06 n/a n/a
26 May – 4 June 2004 12.24 – 12.29 16.99 16 21.52 4 10.08
23 May – 1 June 2005 14.79 – 15.01 17.20 28 22.03 16 11.74
22 May – 1 June 2006 16.38 – 16.48 n/a 40 22.23 28 13.95
29 May – 8 June 2007 21.47 – 21.56 n/a n/a n/a 40 17.22
US**
17 June 2003 $17.56 $34.33 n/a n/a n/a n/a
4 June 2004 $22.50 n/a 16 $45.71 n/a n/a
1 June 2005 $27.23 n/a 28 n/a 16 $22.49
1 June 2006 $30.76 n/a 40 n/a 28 $24.92
8 June 2007 $42.40 n/a n/a n/a 40 $34.34
Conditional awards
Share matching scheme
12 August 2002 – Centenary Scheme 16.93 10 21.52 n/a n/a 
29 January 2002 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 
29 January 2003 16.59 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
29 January 2004 16.90 4 22.02 n/a n/a 
29 January 2005 17.00 16 20.64 4 n/a 
15 February 2006 16.81 29 20.61 17 n/a 
15 February 2007 n/a n/a 22.31 29 n/a 
Long term incentive plan
25 November 2002 16.89 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
18 November 2003 17.01 2 20.50 n/a n/a 
9 November 2004 16.95 13 21.40 1 n/a 
2 November 2005 16.78 25 19.26 13 n/a 
1 November 2006 n/a n/a 21.36 25 n/a 
* All measures in these columns are weighted averages.
** Granted as American Depositary Shares, each representing two ordinary shares and denominated in US dollars. 106 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
21 Share schemes continued
The exercise price of options/awards is ﬁxed over the life of each option/award. 
The weighted average exercise prices were: 
2007 2006
Outstanding at the start of the year £10.99 £9.05
Granted during the year £17.08 £13.95
Exercised during the year £9.14 £7.57
Lapsed / cancelled during the year £11.16 £9.73
Outstanding at the end of the year £13.63 £10.99
Exercisable at the end of the year £9.41 £7.88
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £5.08 (2006: £3.75). 
Pricing
For the purposes of valuing awards to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been 
used for all the share option and share matching schemes and for the LTIPs except for the LTIPs granted since November 2005, where
the Monte Carlo model has been used. 
A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 2007 and 2006 is as follows:
2007 2006
Sharesave Share match Sharesave Share match
Risk-free interest rate                                                      4.6% – 5.5%              5.2% 3.6% – 5.5% 4.2%
Volatility                                                                        15.0% – 20.0%          17.0% 16.0% – 21.0% 17.0%
Expected lives of options granted                         3 – 5 yrs + 6 mths         3 yrs    3 – 5 yrs + 6 mths         3 yrs
Dividend yield                                                                            3.6%         3.6%      3.9% 3.9%
Fair value                                                                         £4.62 – £5.75           £19.69 £3.46 – £4.33 £15.58
Share price used to determine exercise price             £21.53 – £21.83         £21.96 £16.69 – £17.44 £17.52
Exercise price                                                              £17.22 – £17.46          n/a £13.35 – £13.95 n/a
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte Carlo model for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP , in
determining fair value at grant date. Assumptions used in this model were as follows:
2007 2006
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 15.0% 16.0%
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 3.6% 3.8%
Share price volatility of tobacco and alcohol comparator group 13.0% – 21.0% 16.0% – 30.0%
Share price volatility of FTSE 100 comparator group 11.0% – 46.0% 13.0% – 94.0%
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the companies in 
the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 26.0% 23.0%
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the companies in the FTSE 100 comparator group 20.0% 21.0%
For both the Black-Scholes model and the Monte Carlo model, volatility is determined based on the three or ﬁve year share price history
(the time period being determined by the length of the scheme). www.imperial-tobacco.com 107
Financial Statements
22. Changes in equity
Equity
attributable
Exchange to equity
Share Share Retained translation holders of
(In £s million) capital premium earnings reserve the Company
As at 1 October 2005 73 964 (364) 19 692 
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company – – 851 – 851 
Actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – 100 – 100 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – (24) – (24)
Deferred tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity – – 7 – 7 
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – – 7 – 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – – (55) – (55)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes – – 14 – 14 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares – – (556) – (556)
Dividends paid – – (406) – (406)
Other movements – – 3 – 3 
Exchange movements – – – (54) (54)
As at 30 September 2006 73 964 (423) (35) 579 
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company – – 905 – 905 
Actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – 202 – 202 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – (59) – (59)
Current tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity – – 5 – 5 
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – – 7 – 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – – (55) – (55)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes – – 15 – 15 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares – – (105) – (105)
Dividends paid – – (434) – (434)
Exchange movements – – – 58 58 
As at 30 September 2007 73 964 58 23 1,118 
Cumulative goodwill of £2,410 million relating to acquisitions prior to 1998 was written off directly to reserves in line with the requirements
of the accounting standards that were in force at the time.
Treasury shares
2007 2006
(In £s million unless otherwise indicated) Millions of shares Cost Millions of shares Cost
As at 1 October 46.0 757 13.5 201 
Net investment in own shares in the year 5.7 105 32.5 556 
As at 30 September 51.7 862 46.0 757 
Details of the Group’s share buyback programme may be found in note (vi) to the parent company accounts.
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 
(In millions of shares) 2007 2006
As at 1 October 4.2 3.0 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (2.0) (1.9)
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 2.6 3.1 
As at 30 September 4.8 4.2 
23. Minority interests
(In £s million) 2007 2006
As at 1 October 19 19 
Exchange movements 1 – 
Share of net profit 7 7 
Dividends (4) (7)
As at 30 September 23 19  108 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
24. Acquisitions
2007
On 2 April 2007, the Group acquired from Houchens Industries Inc 100% of the share capital of CBHC Inc, which trades 
as Commonwealth Brands and manufactures and sells quality discount cigarettes across the United States. The acquired business
contributed revenue of £252 million and proﬁt from operations of £35 million after charging trademark amortisation of £17 million 
in the period from 2 April 2007 to 30 September 2007. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2006, Group revenue would have
been £12,561 million and Group proﬁt from operations for the year would have amounted to £1,446 million, these amounts having been
estimated by including Commonwealth Brands’ results for the six months prior to acquisition adjusted to reﬂect the Group’s accounting
policies and changes in depreciation and amortisation due to fair value adjustments. 
During the year the Group also acquired interests in a number of small businesses including in January 2007 a controlling interest 
in Tremaco, a tobacco and tobacco-related products distribution business based in Estonia. The aggregate consideration for these
acquisitions amounted to £1 million. Full IFRS disclosures have not been provided for these small acquisitions as they are not considered
to be signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
Details of Commonwealth Brands’ net assets acquired are as follows:
Fair value Fair value
(In £s million) Book value adjustments under IFRS
Trademarks 163 507 670 
Property, plant and equipment 14 (4) 10 
Inventories 37 – 37 
Trade and other receivables 6 – 6 
Unrestricted cash 29 – 29 
Restricted cash 123 – 123
Trade and other payables (177) (4) (181)
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands (194) – (194)
Borrowings (279) – (279)
Net assets acquired (278) 499 221 
Goodwill 305
Total consideration 526
The fair value adjustment in respect of trademarks relates to Commonwealth Brands’ cigarette brands, principally USA Gold and Sonoma,
which have been independently valued using the income method. The trademarks are being amortised over their estimated useful lives 
of 20 years. Goodwill represents a strategic premium to immediately establish critical mass in the US market and acquire assembled
sales, manufacturing and distribution workforces.
Consideration for Commonwealth Brands satisﬁed by:
(In £s million)
Cash 516
Direct costs related to the acquisition 10
Total consideration 526
The purchase price for Commonwealth Brands on a debt free basis is as follows:
(In £s million)
Total consideration 526
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands 194
Borrowings at acquisition 279
Unrestricted cash (29)
Total purchase price 970 www.imperial-tobacco.com 109
Financial Statements
24. Acquisitions continued
2007 continued
Cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions were as follows: 
(In £s million)
Commonwealth Brands
Total consideration 526
Dividend paid to Houchens at acquisition 194
Borrowings repaid at acquisition 279
Unrestricted cash acquired (29)
970 
Other businesses acquired 1
Total cash flows arising due to acquisitions 971
Direct costs related to Commonwealth Brands acquisition not paid at the balance sheet date (5)
Acquisition cash flows reflected in investing activities in consolidated cash flow statement 966
2006
During 2006 the Group acquired interests in a number of small businesses, including in February 2006 a 100% interest in Gunnar
Stenberg AS, a tobacco and tobacco-related products sales and distribution company based in Norway. 
The fair and book value of the net assets acquired were £2 million, giving rise to goodwill of £11 million.
Full IFRS disclosures have not been presented as these acquisitions are not considered signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
The acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff cigarette trademark announced in August 2006 has, in accordance with IFRS 3, not been
treated as a business combination as the substance of the transaction is the purchase of an intangible asset. This is dealt with in note 9
Intangible Assets.
In December 2005 the Group made the ﬁnal payment of deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of Tobaccor SA.
25. Commitments
Capital commitments
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Contracted but not provided for:
Property, plant and equipment 50 30 
Operating lease commitments
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due:
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Property
Within one year 5 5 
Between one and five years 12 14 
Beyond five years 10 10 
27 29 
Plant and equipment (including fixtures and motor vehicles)
Within one year 2 2 
Between one and five years 4 3 
6 5 
26. Legal proceedings
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related
effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously
contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions 
will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash ﬂow or ﬁnancial condition of the Group. 110 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
Financial Statements
27. Cash ﬂows from operating activities
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Profit for the year 912 858 
Adjustments for:
Taxation 325 310 
Finance costs 499 426 
Investment income (318) (283)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 115 120 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) –
Net retirement benefits 4 5 
Share-based payments 15 16 
Movement in provisions (37) (11)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,513 1,441 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (141) 59 
Increase in trade and other receivables (149) (99)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 96 (10)
Movement in working capital (194) (50)
Taxation paid (320) (236)
Net cash flows from operating activities 999 1,155 
28. Analysis of net debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments in the year were as follows:
Derivative
Cash and cash Current Non-current financial
(In £s million) equivalents borrowings borrowings instruments Total
As at 1 October 2006 263 (1,122) (2,930) (90) (3,879)
Exchange movements 13 17 (31) – (1)
Cash flow 104 23 (1,030) – (903)
Accretion of interest – 15 (62) – (47)
Change in fair values – – – (58) (58)
As at 30 September 2007 380 (1,067) (4,053) (148) (4,888)
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes the fair value of interest rate derivative
ﬁnancial instruments and interest accruals.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported net debt (4,888) (3,879)
Accrued interest 88 41 
Fair value of interest rate derivatives 15 16 
Adjusted net debt (4,785) (3,822)
29. Reconciliation of cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 104 10 
Increase in borrowings (2,324) (1,356)
Repayment of borrowings 1,317 795 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (903) (551)
Exchange movements (1) 29 
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative financial instruments (105) (20)
Movement in net debt during the year (1,009) (542)
Opening net debt (3,879) (3,337)
Closing net debt (4,888) (3,879) www.imperial-tobacco.com 111
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007
which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes. These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors’ Remuneration and the parent company ﬁnancial statements
in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent
in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Report of the Directors
is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that speciﬁc
information presented in the Business Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ Remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Business Review, Chairman’s Statement, the Report of the Directors, 
the Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited parts of the Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates
and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity 
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2007; 
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Bristol
31 October 2007 112 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC balance sheet
at 30 September 2007
Financial Statements
Year ended Year ended
(In £s million) Notes 30 September 2007 30 September 2006
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries (ii) 1,035 1,035 
Current assets
Debtors (iii) 1,060 1,053 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (iv) (456) (454)
Net current assets 604 599 
Total assets less current liabilities 1,639 1,634 
Net assets 1,639 1,634 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (v) 73 73 
Share premium account (vi) 964 964 
Profit and loss account (vi) 602 597 
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,639 1,634 
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 112 to 114 were approved by the Board of Directors on 31 October 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Iain Napier Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director www.imperial-tobacco.com 113
Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC balance sheet
Financial Statements
Basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention, 
the Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Investments held as ﬁxed assets
Investments held as ﬁxed assets comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision 
for impairment.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Company’s ﬁnancial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved 
by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate proﬁt and loss account has been presented for the Company. 
The Company has not presented a cash ﬂow statement or provided details of related party transactions as permitted under FRS 1
(revised) “Cash ﬂow statements” and FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” respectively. As permitted by paragraph 3C (b) of FRS 25, 
the Company has elected not to present FRS 25 disclosures in the notes to its individual ﬁnancial statements as full equivalent disclosures
are presented in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(i) Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year:
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2006 of 43.5p per share (2005: 39.5p) 293 279 
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 21.0p per share (2006: 18.5p) 141 127 
434 406 
A ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 48.5 pence per share has been proposed. This amounts to £326 million based 
on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2007. At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved the ﬁnal
dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability.
(ii) Investments held as ﬁxed assets
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited – 1,035 
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited 1,035 – 
1,035 1,035 
On 30 January 2007 there was a share for share exchange which resulted in the Company exchanging its 100% holding in Imperial
Tobacco Holdings Limited for a 100% holding in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited.
A list of the principal subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 117 to 118.
(iii) Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,051 1,051 
Other debtors and prepayments 9 2 
1,060 1,053 
(iv) Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Bank overdrafts 1 241 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 455 213 
456 454 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand. 114 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC balance sheet continued
Financial Statements
(v) Called up share capital
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2006: 1,000,000,000) 5,604 100 
Issued and fully paid
729,200,921 ordinary shares of 10p each 73 73 
The authorised share capital was increased to 56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each at the Extraordinary General Meeting
held on 13 August 2007 in connection with the proposed acquisition of Altadis.
(vi) Reserves
Share Profit
premium and loss
(In £s million) account account
As at 1 October 2006 964 597
Retained profit for the year – 110
Purchase of own shares – (105)
As at 30 September 2007 964 602
Proﬁt for the year
As permitted by section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, the proﬁt and loss account of the Company is not presented. The proﬁt
attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, is £544 million (2006: £1,009 million).
Purchase of treasury shares
During the year the Company continued its share buyback programme purchasing 5,713,000 ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group
PLC for a total cost of £105 million including expenses. The total number of shares held in treasury is 51,717,000 representing 7.1% 
of the issued share capital. The total cost, including expenses, of shares held in treasury is £862 million. The shares purchased to date
have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve and represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds (see note 22
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements). The share buyback programme was suspended on 8 February 2007 following the
announcement of the agreement to acquire Commonwealth Brands (note 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements).
(vii) Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
(In £s million) 2007 2006 
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 544 1,009 
Dividends (434) (406)
Payments for purchase of own shares (105) (556)
Movement in equity shareholders’ funds 5 47 
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 1,634 1,587 
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 1,639 1,634 
(viii) Contingent liabilities
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary undertakings,
including its Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2007, the contingent liability totalled £5,496 million (2006: £4,205 million).
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not ﬁle
separate ﬁnancial statements with the Chamber of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued
declarations to assume any and all liability for any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as at 30 September
2007. The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited, John Player Distributors Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar have
therefore availed themselves of the exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect 
of documents required to be attached to the annual returns for such companies.
(ix) Other information
Number of employees
The average number of employees during 2007 was nil (2006: nil).
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 65. 
These disclosures form part of the ﬁnancial statements. www.imperial-tobacco.com 115
Shareholder information
Financial Statements
Registered ofﬁce
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
+44 (0)117 963 6636
Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0870 241 3932
+44 (0)121 415 7009
(0870 600 3950 text phone for shareholders with hearing difﬁculties)
ADR Depositary
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence, RI 02940-3077
USA
Toll-free number in the US:1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237)
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
+44 (0)20 7678 8000
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
20 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QW
+44 (0)20 7425 8000
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
31 Great George Street
Bristol BS1 5QD
Lawyers
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Allen & Overy
One Bishop Square
London E1 6AO
Financial advisers
CitiGroup
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB 116 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Shareholder information continued
Financial Statements
Financial Calendar and Dividends
Interim results are expected to be announced in May 2008 and the full year’s results in November 2008.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Tuesday, 29 January 2008 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2007 ﬁnal dividend, if approved, will be on 15 February 2008 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2008. The associated ex dividend date is 16 January 2008.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form
obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown.
Share Dealing Service
A low cost, execution-only, postal dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares has been set 
up by Hoare Govett Limited. Commission is 1 per cent with a minimum charge of £15. For details please contact Hoare Govett Limited at
the address shown. This service is restricted to UK residents only and transactions are limited to €15,000 (approximately £10,000). Hoare
Govett Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Individual Savings Account (ISA)
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA), dedicated 
to Imperial Tobacco Group shares operated by Lloyds TSB Bank plc. Details of the ISA can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 242 4244.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy
further shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex
BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 241 3018.
American Depositary Receipt Facility
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares
(ADSs) using the symbol ITY. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. The ADS facility is administered 
by Citibank N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
International Direct Investment Program
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs have been included in the Citibank International Direct Investment Program which provides registered
holders and interested investors with a convenient way to purchase and sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs.
To obtain further information about the International Direct Investment Program, please call Citibank N.A., the administrator and sponsor
at 1-800-808-8010 (toll-free in the USA).
Website
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Equiniti also offer a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices 
and dividend details and ﬁnd practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. www.imperial-tobacco.com 117
Principal Subsidiaries
Financial Statements
The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales
Name Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products
Sinclair Collis Limited Cigarette vending in the UK
Incorporated overseas
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity
Commonwealth Brands Inc., United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the United States of America
Dunkerquoise des Blends S.A., France Tobacco processing in France
Ets. L. Lacroix Fils N.V., Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Belgium
Gunnar Stenberg AS, Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco (Asia) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco CR s.r.o., Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco France S.A.S., France Marketing of tobacco products in France
Imperial Tobacco Hellas S.A., Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg Dohänyforgalmazö Kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products
in New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Overseas B.V., the Netherlands Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A.S., Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis ve Pazarlama A.S., Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine
John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic 
of Ireland
John Player S.A., Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Germany and export of tobacco products
Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China
OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia
Tobaccor S.A.S., France Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Netherlands 118 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Principal Subsidiaries continued
Financial Statements
All of the wholly owned subsidiaries were held throughout the year except for Commonwealth Brands Inc which was acquired 
on 2 April 2007 (note 24) and Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited which was incorporated on 6 March 2007.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below. All are unlisted unless 
otherwise indicated.
Incorporated overseas
Percentage
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned
1
Imperial Tobacco Polska S.A., Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.9
products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 98.7
products in Kyrgyzstan
Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 43.0
products in Sweden
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs S.A.
2
, Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 74.1
products in the Ivory Coast
Tobacna Ljubljana d.o.o., Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products 76.5
in Slovenia
Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.1
products in Macedonia
1
The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobac
v
na Ljubljana d.o.o. 
in which the Group holds a 99% interest.
2
Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership:
Name and country Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA) GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany
Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, 
Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
The consolidated Group ﬁnancial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception 
of Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held 
by the Company. A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
ˇ Index
www.imperial-tobacco.com 119
Supplementary Information
A
Accounting Policies 71
Acquisitions 15, 108
Adjusted Measures 75
Africa 25
Altadis 6, 7, 13
American Depositary
Receipts/Shares 115
Annual General Meeting 36, 116
Asia 24
Audit Committee 43
Auditors
Remuneration 80
Report 67, 111
Australia 24
B
Balance Sheet (Parent) 112
Balance Sheet (Consolidated) 69
Belgium 22
Board Committees 38
Board of Directors 32
Borrowings and Derivative
Financial Instruments 88
Burkina Faso 25
Business Overview IFC
Business Review 5
C
Cash and Cash Equivalents 87
Capital Expenditure 79
Cash Flows from Operating Activities 110
Cash Flow Statement 70
Cash Management 11
Caucasus 24
Chairman’s Statement 3
Changes in Equity 107
Chief Executive’s Committee 33, 40
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 6
China 24
Commitments 109
Community Investment 29, 35
Contents 1
Corporate Governance Report 37
Corporate Responsibility 6, 28
Cost Optimisation 11
Creditor Payment Policy 35
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 76
Czech Republic 24
D
Debt 14, 110
Deferred Tax 97
Directors 
Biographies 32
Interests in Shares 54
Remuneration 48
Responsibilities 47
Pensions 62
Directors and Employees 81
Directors’ Report : Business Review 5
Directors’ Report : Governance 31
Disclosure Committee 46
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 116
Dividends 14, 83
Donations 35, 46
Duty Free 25
E
Earnings Per Share 14, 83
Employees 35, 81
Estonia 24
Excise Duty 8, 10, 12
F
Financial Calendar 116
Financial Highlights 2
Financial Review 14
Financial Statements 66
Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control 9
France 22
G
Germany 19
Glossary 120
Greece 22
Group Performance IFC, 14 
H
Health, Safety and Environment 29
Hungary 24
I
Income Statement 68
Intangible Assets 84
Inventories 87
Investments in Associates 87
Ireland 22
Italy 22
Ivory Coast 24
K
Key Performance Indicators 13
L
Laos 24
Legal Proceedings 76, 109
Litigation 10, 12
M
Madagascar 25
Manufacturing 25
Master Settlement Agreement 6, 23
Middle East 25
Minority Interests 107
N
Net Debt 14, 110
Net Finance Costs 14, 81
Netherlands 22
New Zealand 24
Nominations Committee 42
Norway 24
Notes to the Financial Statements 78
O
Outlook 7, 18, 22, 23, 25
P
Pensions 46, 63, 98
Pictorial Health Warnings 10
Principal Subsidiaries 117
Productivity 25
Poland 24
Portugal 22
Property, Plant and Equipment 86
Provisions 101
R
Regional Performance 15
Registrars 115
Regulation 6, 9, 12
Remuneration Committee 41, 48
Remuneration Report 48
Report of the Directors 34
Rest of the World 24
Rest of Western Europe 22
Restructuring Costs 14, 80
Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes 46, 98
Risk Assessment 44
Risks and Uncertainties 12
Russia 24
S
Sales Development 11
Saudi Arabia 24
Segmental Information 78
Senegal 25
Share Buybacks 15, 114
Share Capital 34, 102
Share Schemes 102
Shareholder Information 115
Slovakia 24
Slovenia 24
Smoking in Public Places 9
Spain 22
Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense 70
Strategy 11
T
Taiwan 24
Taxation 14, 82
Total Shareholder Return Index 4
Trade and Other Payables 87
Trade and Other Receivables 87
Travel Retail 22
Turkey 24
U
Ukraine 24
UAE 25
United Kingdom 18
United States 23
V
Vietnam 24
W
World Tobacco Market 8 120 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted proﬁt after tax attributable to the
equity holders of the Company divided by
the weighted average number of shares in
issue during the period excluding shares
held to satisfy employee share schemes and
shares purchased by the Company and held
as Treasury shares.
Adjusted measures
Management believes that reporting
adjusted measures provides a better
comparison of business performance and
reﬂects the way in which the business is
controlled. Accordingly, adjusted measures
of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs,
proﬁt before tax, taxation and earnings 
per share exclude, where applicable,
amortisation of acquired trademarks,
restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net
ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses
on derivative ﬁnancial instruments in respect
of commercially effective hedges and related
taxation effects. The term adjusted is not a
deﬁned term under International Financial
Reporting Standards and may not 
be comparable with similarly titled 
measures reported by other companies.
Adjusted operating margin
The adjusted proﬁt from operations divided
by net revenue.
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
Proﬁt from operations adjusted for
amortisation of acquired trademarks,
restructuring costs and fair value gains 
and losses on derivative ﬁnancial
instruments used to commercially hedge
investments in foreign operations.
Amortisation
A systematic charge to the income
statement to write off the value of intangible
assets with ﬁnite lives over their useful lives.
Cash conversion rate
Cash conversion is calculated as cash ﬂow
from operations before tax payments less
net capital expenditure relating to property,
plant and equipment and software as a
percentage of adjusted proﬁt from
operations.
Earnings per share – basic
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the
Company divided by the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the period
excluding shares held to satisfy employee
share schemes and shares purchased by
the Company and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share – diluted
As for Basic earnings per share except 
that the weighted average number of 
shares includes the weighted average
number of shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential
ordinary shares arising from rights under 
the employee share schemes.
Effective tax rate
The tax charge in the income statement 
as a percentage of proﬁt before taxation.
Enterprise value (EV)
Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Ex dividend date
The date from which shares are traded
without the right to the most recently
declared dividend payment.
Framework Convention on Tobacco
Control
The World Health Organisation’s Framework
Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) is
the ﬁrst global tobacco treaty that seeks to
regulate tobacco products.
Fine cut tobacco
Loose tobacco which is used with rolling
papers or ﬁlter tubes (including make your
own and roll your own).
FMC
Factory-made cigarettes.
ISO
The International Organisation for
Standardisation, widely known as ISO, 
is an international standard-setting body
comprised of representatives from various
national standards organisations. It
promulgates world wide industrial 
and commercial standards.
Market capitalisation
The market price of a share multiplied by 
the number of shares in issue.
Market share
Market share represents our best estimate
of the volumes of our brands sold as a
percentage of total market volumes during
the reporting period. We use latest monthly
data only where the share or the average
would be misleading – for example if market
entry or a signiﬁcant product launch has
taken place part way through the reporting
period. All market shares are Imperial
Tobacco best estimates based on the 
most appropriate independent market
volume data available.
MYO
Make your own: tobacco which is made 
into a cigarette using a tube machine and
ﬁlter tubes.
Net Revenue
Net revenue comprises revenue less 
duty and similar items. Revenue is as
described under Accounting Policies. 
Duty and similar items includes tobacco
duty and other governmental levies which
have characteristics similar to duty, such 
as those due in the United States under 
the Master Settlement Agreement and 
Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act.
OTP
Other tobacco products – ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff and snus.
Private label
An exclusive retailer or distributor brand
usually in the low-price segment.
Productivity
Productivity is measured as factory output
divided by paid hours.
RYO
Roll your own: tobacco which is used with
rolling papers to hand make cigarettes.
Singles Make Your Own
Pre-rolled cartridges of tobacco that are
inserted into separately sold cigarette 
paper tubes with ﬁlters using a special
device resembling a pen.
Snus
Snus is a moist oral tobacco product. It 
is manufactured and consumed primarily 
in Sweden and Norway
Total shareholder return
The total investment gain to shareholders,
resulting from the movement in the share
price and assuming dividends are
immediately reinvested in shares.
Travel Retail
Products made available in a market
principally for travelling consumers.
Volumes
Our volume KPI represents the number 
of units sold in the period
Weighted average cost of capital
The weighted average of the costs of
various types of capital that ﬁnance a
company or a project. Capital would
generally include a mix of debt and equity.
Glossary
Supplementary Information 3. Shareholder
services
> Register online
> Shareview
> Investor glossary
> Common questions
4. Tell us what
you think
> Your feedback
> Investor contacts
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Southville
Bristol BS99 7UJ
Tel: +44 (0)117 963 6636
Email: info@uk.imptob.com
2. View archive
information
> Investor library
> Company reports
> Company presentations
> Results and trading updates
1. Access the latest
shareholder
information
> Updates via email
> Latest share price
> Financial calendar
> RSS news feeds
> Corporate governance
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed in England by Butler and Tanner.
For more information visit:
www.imperial-tobacco.com The paper in this report is made from 100% 
post-consumer recycled waste
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2007
What does it take to
deliver sustainable 
shareholder value? Financial Highlights
2007 % change 2006
Cigarette volumes (bn cigarettes) 200.3 +7% 186.9
Fine cut tobacco volumes (tonnes) 24,450 –4% 25,500
(In £’s million) 2007 % change 2006
Revenue 12,344 +6% 11,676
Net revenue 3,280 +4% 3,162
Profit from operations 1,418 +8% 1,311
Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 +9% 1,356
Profit before tax 1,237 +6% 1,168
(In pence) 2007 % change 2006
Basic earnings per share 134.3 +10% 122.2
Adjusted earnings per share 136.7 +12% 122.2
Diluted earnings per share 133.7 +10% 121.6
Dividend per share 69.5 +12% 62.0
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a better comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, as outlined in our accounting policy note, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, taxation and earnings per share 
exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired trademarks, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial
instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges and related taxation effects. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations are included within
note 1 to the ﬁnancial statements, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs in note 3, adjusted and reported taxation in note 4, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in
note 6. The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁned terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures
reported by other companies.
2 Business Overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
8 World Tobacco Market Context
9 Understanding Our 
Operating Environment
11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally
12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
13 Measuring our Performance
14 Financial Review
17 United Kingdom
18 Germany
19 Rest of Western Europe
20 United States
22 Rest of the World
23 Manufacturing
25 Corporate Responsibility
Summary Statutory Reports
28 Board of Directors
30 Summary Directors’ Report 
31 Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
32 Summary Corporate 
Governance Report
Summary Financial Statements
42 Consolidated Income Statement
43 Consolidated Balance Sheet
44 Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense
Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement
45 Notes to the summary ﬁnancial
statements
Supplementary Information
51 Shareholder Information
53 Principal Subsidiaries
55 Index
56 Glossary www.imperial-tobacco.com 1
We are delivering sustainable
shareholder value through…
Financial
strength
Clear direction
A responsible
approach
A strategy for
growth
International
expansion
The right team
p25
p21
p28
p4 p6
Cost efficiency
Strong brands
p16 p14
p24
A well balanced
business
p2 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Business Overview
A well balanced business
Imperial Tobacco is the world’s fourth largest international tobacco
company, which manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive
range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Our Group performance
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (pence)
136.7p
+12% on 2006
Dividend Per Share (pence)
69.5p          
+12% on 2006
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations (million)
£1,475m
+9% on 2006
Our key international brands
Net revenue by region (%)
United Kingdom 38.3%
Germany 16.1%
Rest of Western Europe 22.1%
United States 3.5%
Rest of the World 20.0%
United Kingdom 26.7%
Germany 16.0%
Rest of Western Europe 19.3%
United States 3.6%
Rest of the World 34.4%
Adjusted profit from
operations by region (%)
Manufacturing location
Our manufacturing assets
22
Cigarette factories
6
Other tobacco 
product factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
Our manufacturing sites
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• www.imperial-tobacco.com 3
Overview Highlights Contribution to Group
United Kingdom
In the UK we continue to build on our
market leadership position in cigarettes,
fine cut tobacco and rolling papers. 
The UK is a mature market which has
experienced moderate market declines
in recent years.
> Overall cigarette market share up
at 46.4 per cent 
> Lambert & Butler, UK’s best selling
cigarette brand up at 16.6 per cent
> UK’s number two brand, Richmond, 
up at 15.7 per cent 
Germany
We are growing our cigarette share in
Germany and have a leading position 
in fine cut tobacco. Market dynamics in
Germany have been driven by consumer
migration from the discontinued make
your own Singles product.
> Our cigarette market share grew 
to 21.3 per cent
> JPS market share up at 6.4 per cent 
> Davidoff in the premium sector
remained broadly stable at 1.0 per cent
of the cigarette market
Rest of Western Europe
We continue to build on our position in
this region which comprises a number 
of highly competitive mature markets
that are becoming more regulated.
> Our cigarette market share increased 
in a number of countries
> Davidoff and West have grown volumes
reinforcing their strong regional positions
> In fine cut tobacco, the initiatives we
have undertaken have started to deliver
some market share improvements
Rest of the World
There are considerable opportunities 
to expand our business and grow our
brands and profits in our Rest of the
World region. This region is a key area 
of future investment for the Group.
> The Rest of the World region is diverse
with over 100 countries, with different
dynamics, opportunities and challenges
> We have grown our cigarette volumes,
and delivered market share improvements
in many markets in the region
United States
We made a significant move into the US
tobacco market with the acquisition of
Commonwealth Brands in April 2007.
We believe we are well positioned to
develop our business in the US with 
our versatile, multi-product portfolio 
and an enhanced platform front which 
to launch our brands and products.
> Returns on investment in the first six
months exceeded our weighted
average cost of capital
> Our cigarette market share was 3.7 per
cent of the total cigarette market and
13.4 per cent of the discount sector
> Existing rolling papers and tubes
volumes up by 13 per cent and 
8 per cent respectively
£876m
(2006: £835m)
Net revenue
£564m
(2006: £506m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£524m
(2006: £575m)
Net revenue
£238m
(2006: £270m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£635m
(2006: £637m)
Net revenue
£326m
(2006: £324m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£117m
(2006: £14m)
Net revenue
£52m
(2006: £4m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
£1,128m
(2006: £1,101m)
Net revenue 
£295m
(2006: £252m)
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chairman’s Statement
Clear direction
    In this, my ﬁrst year as Chairman, I am delighted to be reporting 
another record set of results. 
have been efﬁciently and effectively
integrated and delivered signiﬁcant value 
for our shareholders. 
The acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands was completed in April 2007,
offering us considerable opportunities to
expand into this highly proﬁtable market. In
July, we announced a proposed cash offer
for Altadis of €50 per share, and are
delighted that our shareholders voted
overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed
acquisition at our EGM in August 2007.
We expect the transaction to complete 
in January 2008.
Our geographic proﬁle includes regions
offering important opportunities for long 
term sustainable growth combined with 
core market strengths. We are focused on
expanding our current geographic proﬁle to
deliver further proﬁtable volume growth, with
expansion during the year in the Americas,
Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
We have grown cigarette market shares
within every region and this performance is
complemented by our world leadership in
ﬁne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes. 
We have continued to focus on cost
control throughout every aspect of our
business, with further cost savings achieved
in our manufacturing base. We have effectively
used our cash by investing appropriately in
acquisitions, in market developments
particularly in our Rest of the World and
Rest of Western Europe regions and in 
our share buyback programme.
Corporate Governance
Shareholders, customers, suppliers,
employees and society in general expect
Imperial Tobacco to act responsibly and to
high standards at all times. We are committed
to maintaining high standards of Corporate
Governance. We have in place a set of
governance structures and practices designed
to ensure that the Group is run responsibly
in the best interests of its shareholders.
Further information is available on pages 
31 to 41 of this report.
Iain Napier
Chairman
We remain committed to creating value for
our shareholders and, as a result of our
continued and consistent focus on this
strategy, we have delivered another record
operational and ﬁnancial performance. 
Earnings and Dividends
This year has been deﬁned by growth, 
both acquisition-led and through organic
developments in new and existing markets.
We have continued our focus on costs and
the effective management of the cash we
generate. This successful combination has
delivered an increase in adjusted earnings
per share of 12 per cent to 136.7 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 134.3 pence
(2006: 122.2 pence).
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend
of 48.5 pence per share, bringing the total
dividend for the year to 69.5 pence, up 12
per cent on 2006 (2006: 62.0 pence).
1
A Year of Progress
Successful acquisitions have been a
hallmark of Imperial Tobacco over the last
decade. Since our listing on the London
Stock Exchange, we have invested £6.2
billion in acquisitions, in accordance with
our strategic and ﬁnancial criteria. These
1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders on the register
at the close of business on 18 January 2008. www.imperial-tobacco.com 5
Directors’ Report:  Business Review
Derek Bonham
We were deeply saddened by the death 
of Derek Bonham, our former Chairman, 
in September 2007. Derek worked tirelessly
as our Chairman, guiding Imperial Tobacco
through its demerger from Hanson, its
listing as an independent company and
through its subsequent transformation 
into the world’s fourth largest international
tobacco company.
Board Changes
We regularly review the composition of 
the Board to ensure it continues to provide
the most effective leadership for the Group’s
development as well as planned and 
orderly succession.
Reﬂecting our ongoing focus on the
strategic and proﬁtable development of 
the business, I was delighted to welcome
Alison Cooper as Corporate Development
Director in July 2007. T o ensure the continued
appropriate balance of the Board, Michael
Herlihy and Mark Williamson were appointed
as Non-Executive Directors, also in July 2007.
We reluctantly accepted the resignation
of Frank Rogerson as Corporate Affairs
Director in July 2007 for personal and
private reasons. David Cresswell,
Manufacturing Director, will retire at the 
end of December 2007. I would like to
express my sincere thanks to them both 
for their outstanding contribution to the
success of the Company during their 
long service.
Colin Day resigned as a Non-Executive
Director as a consequence of his overall
business commitments in February 2007
and, as previously announced, Vice
Chairman Anthony Alexander will retire 
from the Board at the Annual General
Meeting in January 2008.
Finally I thank all our employees for their
contribution to these strong results. My
ambition is to continue to build on our
excellent track record and keep Imperial
Tobacco performing successfully. We 
have the people, the brands and the drive
to succeed.
Iain Napier
Chairman
100
125
150
175
200
225
Sep 07 Sep 06 Sep 05 Sep 04
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE All-Share index
Over the past three years our total shareholder return
was 106 per cent and we have out performed the
FTSE All-Share Index by 74 per cent.
Total Shareholder Return 
Total Shareholder Return is 
a Key Performance Indicator
p13 6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A strategy for growth
It has been another record year for Imperial Tobacco with further growth 
in cigarette volumes, cigarette market share gains within all regions and
excellent performances from our key brands.
Performance Overview
Our cigarette volumes were up by 7 per cent
with key growth areas including Central and
Eastern Europe, Germany and Asia together
with six months contribution from the
Commonwealth Brands business.
Cigarette market shares increased in our
core markets of the UK and Germany as well
as in Western Europe, Central and Eastern
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. 
Our successful brand strategy has
ensured continued positive developments
for our key brands Davidoff, West and JPS,
growing volumes by 5 per cent, 9 per cent
and 18 per cent respectively. Since our
acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark
in September 2006, we have launched
Davidoff in several new markets and
introduced a number of successful brand
variants, all contributing to our volume 
and market share gains.
As well as developments in our existing
markets, the acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands has given us a ﬁrm foothold in the
proﬁtable US market. We are extremely
pleased with its early performance, with
returns on investment in the ﬁrst six months
exceeding our weighted average cost of
capital. Our Master Settlement Agreement
application is progressing and we expect 
to complete our application in a few weeks
following constructive dialogue with the
National Association of Attorneys General. We
have ﬁnalised our plans for the development
of our own brands and are in a position 
to begin their rollout once we have
completed all aspects of becoming a
participating manufacturer in the Master
Settlement Agreement.
In our manufacturing operations, 
our productivity increased by 7 per cent
demonstrating the excellent progress we
continue to make with our ongoing business
efﬁciency and simpliﬁcation strategies. 
Altadis 
In regard to our proposed acquisition of
Altadis, we received European Commission
clearance in October 2007, subject to the
enlarged Group divesting a small number of
ﬁne cut and pipe tobacco and cigar brands
in certain European markets. As previously
highlighted this will not materially affect the
operational and ﬁnancial performance of the
enlarged Group. We expect approval of
our offer by the CNMV , the Spanish regulator,
soon and expect to complete the deal in
January 2008. The rights issue, which is 
part ﬁnancing the acquisition, will occur
before 18 July 2008.
Regulation
We have a long history of co-operation 
with authorities in the markets in which we
operate and we remain committed to working
constructively with governments and regulatory
bodies worldwide. We believe that sound,
reasonable and practicable regulation,
developed in consultation with the tobacco
industry, is the most effective approach. 
Our Commitment to Corporate
Responsibility
In recent years, we have built a strong
framework in which we manage our
Corporate Responsibility activities, ensuring
that we live up to the high standards we set
for ourselves and the high expectations our
stakeholders have of us. Our success to date
has been reﬂected in several performance
improvements which will be reported in 
detail in our Corporate Responsibility 
Review published in December. 
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive www.imperial-tobacco.com 7
Proposed Acquisition of Altadis 
able to generate annual operational
efﬁciencies of approximately €300 million.
The proposed acquisition will initially
be ﬁnanced through new debt facilities
and an equity bridge loan, which will 
be reﬁnanced, in part, by a rights issue
following completion of the deal. The
rights issue will occur before 18 July
2008, and will be sized to ensure we
issue the minimum amount of equity
needed to maintain an investment
grade credit rating, to which we
remain committed. 
Strategic Rationale
Altadis and Imperial Tobacco are 
a great strategic ﬁt, a powerful 
combination which would strengthen
our position as the world’s fourth
largest international tobacco company.
The proposed acquisition meets 
our strict acquisition criteria, providing 
us with a signiﬁcant enhancement to 
our operating platform and scale, 
with increased presence in proﬁtable 
mature markets as well as improved
opportunities in emerging markets. 
The enlarged Group will also have
stronger and more diversiﬁed brand
and product portfolios.
Combined with the revenue beneﬁts
and substantial cost savings we expect
to achieve, we believe this is an excellent
deal that will create signiﬁcant value 
for shareholders. 
Outlook
Looking ahead, we are focused on 
long term sustainable growth across 
the business and remain committed to 
our strategy of growing our operations
organically and through acquisitions. 
We have a growing geographic base on
which we seek to build our position, with
our broad product and brand portfolio. 
Our focus on cost and efﬁciency continues,
as well as ensuring the most effective use 
of our free cash ﬂow through value creating
acquisitions such as Commonwealth Brands
and the proposed acquisition of Altadis,
coupled with the ongoing investment in 
our existing business. 
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Transaction Summary
On 18 July 2007, we made a proposed
cash offer for the whole of Altadis at
€50 per share. This gave an equity
value of €12.6 billion or £8.5 billion. When
existing net debt and minorities are
included, it represented an enterprise
value of €16.2 billion or £11.0 billion.
Altadis’ Board considers that this is
an attractive offer and that, in the absence
of a competing offer at a higher price
being ﬁled with the Spanish regulator,
the Altadis Board will recommend it 
to their shareholders. 
We see revenue beneﬁts and
substantial cost savings arising from
the enlarged Group and expect to be
Date Event
18 July 2007 Imperial Tobacco made a proposed cash offer of €50 per share to acquire Altadis
13 August 2007 Extraordinary General Meeting: 99.82% of voting Imperial Tobacco shareholders were in favour 
of the proposed acquisition
August 2007 US Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust clearance received
October 2007 European Commission merger clearance received
November 2007 Expected approval of the proposed offer by the CNMV (Spanish regulator)
January 2008 Expected completion of the proposed acquisition
Before 18 July 2008 Rights issue 
I believe that the proposed acquisition 
of Altadis will be a great strategic ﬁt that will
strengthen our position as the world’s fourth
largest international tobacco company, with
revenue beneﬁts and substantial cost
savings arising from the enlarged Group.
In conclusion, I believe we are well
placed to continue to deliver sustainable
shareholder value.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive 8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
More than ﬁve trillion cigarettes are consumed each year, with the world’s largest cigarette
market, China, accounting for over a third of total global consumption.
World tobacco market context
Industry Overview
The ﬁve largest international tobacco
companies are Altria, British American
Tobacco, Japan Tobacco (including
recently acquired Gallaher), Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis. Global market
share of the ﬁve largest international
tobacco companies, excluding China, 
are 28 per cent, 25 per cent, 16 per cent,
6 per cent and 3 per cent respectively.
In mature markets, we expect smoking
incidence to decline with percentages 
of smokers within total populations
reducing. However, the number of 
adults in the world is set to grow and, 
as a result, we expect that overall annual
global consumption will remain broadly
unchanged at around ﬁve trillion cigarettes
per annum in the medium term.
Tobacco regulation and legislation
has increased in recent years, including
restrictions on smoking in public places,
advertising and promotional restrictions
and pictorial health warnings. 
Excise Duty
Increases in excise duty in many of the
mature higher price markets such as
the UK, are leading consumers to
downtrade to cheaper brands. This trend
is expected to continue. Conversely in
emerging markets, premium brands are
growing as consumers are increasingly
trading up.
One of the biggest challenges facing
the industry is illicit trade. International
disparities in the rates of excise duty have
created an environment that encourages
the growth of smuggling, illegal cross-
border trading and counterfeiting.
Industry Growth Opportunities
While the tobacco industry is mature,
with global volumes broadly stable, we
believe there are still many opportunities
to grow proﬁts. 
While traditional communications
channels are reducing through increased
regulation, we expect the signiﬁcant
international cigarette brands to grow
from their current position of around
30 per cent of total global volume,
excluding China.
Recent industry consolidation such
as Japan Tobacco’s acquisition of
Gallaher and our proposed acquisition 
of Altadis, combined with investments 
in smaller scale bolt-on acquisitions and
underlying organic growth, should increase
opportunities for the international
tobacco companies.
Global market shares 
excluding China
Altria   28% 
British American Tobacco 25%
Japan Tobacco  16%
Imperial Tobacco    6%
Altadis     3%
Other   22%
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com www.imperial-tobacco.com 9
Understanding our operating environment
Tobacco Regulation
Regulatory pressures on the industry 
have continued during 2007. Governments
around the world are pursuing in varying
degrees the further regulation of tobacco
products, including restrictions affecting 
the manufacture, development, sale,
distribution, marketing and advertising 
of tobacco products.
Developments in the areas of smoking in
public places, the ﬁrst global tobacco treaty,
pictorial health warnings, excise duty and
tobacco-related litigation are outlined below.
In addition, there have been other
regulatory developments during the year
including further restrictions on product
display, new reporting formats for the
increased disclosure of tobacco ingredients,
and, debate in the EU and Australia on 
the testing and standards of lower ignition
propensity cigarettes that are currently
available throughout Canada and in 
several US states.
Smoking in Public Places
In a number of the markets and regions 
in which we operate the debate on the
introduction of increased restrictions on
smoking in public places and the work
place has intensiﬁed.
Our View
We support sensible regulation but believe
that bans on smoking in public places are
disproportionate and unnecessary. 
Our experience in markets where smoking
restrictions or total bans are in place supports
our view on the impact of this legislation.
Smokers will continue to smoke, and 
while there may be an initial dip in cigarette
consumption, this tends to diminish over time.
We believe that concerns about smoking
in public places can be resolved through
common sense and courtesy and by
introducing practical solutions such as 
well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking
areas into work places, restaurants and
other public places.
2007 Update
On 30 January 2007, the EU Commission
launched a Green Paper seeking views on
the scope of measures to regulate public
smoking. The Green Paper presents ﬁve
policy options including exemptions for certain
venues, for example restaurants and bars.
In June 2007, the European Parliament
released its own draft report on the Green
Paper calling on the Commission to present
a proposal by 2008 for a comprehensive
ban in all enclosed work places, catering
establishments, public buildings and
transport within the EU.
The UK now has a comprehensive ban on
smoking in public places and work places
including bars, restaurants and private
member clubs. Following the introduction 
of restrictions in Scotland in March 2006,
Wales followed on 2 April 2007, Northern
Ireland on 30 April 2007 and England on 
1 July 2007.
The French Government published a
decree in November 2006 banning smoking
in public places from 1 February 2007, 
but giving bars, restaurants, nightclubs,
“We have continued our long
standing approach of constructive
engagement with the authorities in
the markets in which we operate.”
Alison Cooper
Corporate Development Director
We have operated proﬁtably in a highly regulated environment for many years.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
hotels and tobacconists a derogation 
until 1 January 2008. 
In Germany, the Government’s ban 
on smoking in all government buildings,
whilst allowing for the provision of separate
smoking areas, as well as a total ban 
on public transport, came into effect on 
1 September 2007. Legislation for hospitality
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants
continues to be debated at the Federal
State level, with the implementation of further
restrictions planned in the coming months. 
In the Australian States of Victoria, New
South Wales and the Australian Capital
Territory further public smoking restrictions
have come into effect.
Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control 
The World Health Organisation’s (WHO)
Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
(FCTC) took effect on 27 February 2005
and by the end of September 2007 had
been ratiﬁed by 151 countries as well as the
EU. The FCTC is the ﬁrst global tobacco
treaty that seeks to regulate tobacco
products in a number of areas including
advertising, labelling, product testing and the
submission of ingredient information as well
as product traceability. The FCTC also
addresses tobacco taxation and calls for
tightened legislation to combat the illicit
trade in tobacco products.
Our View
We agree with many aspects of the
convention, most notably the need to prevent
youth smoking and the urgent need to stamp
out both smuggling and counterfeiting of
tobacco products. However, it is our belief 
that some of the FCTC provisions seek to 
go beyond reasonable objectives and impose
a supranational regulatory regime covering 
a wide range of areas better addressed by
national regulators, who are familiar with 
local conditions. Moreover, it gives the WHO
authority to establish rules in areas outside its
core competence – areas that fall under the
jurisdiction of other bodies such as the World
Trade Organisation or the International
Standards Organisation.  10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Excise Duty
Tobacco products are subject to excise duty
which, in most markets in which we operate,
represents a substantial percentage of the
retail price. High taxes and international
disparities in rates of excise duty charged on
tobacco products have created an environment
in which both illegal cross-border trading and
counterfeiting have proliferated.
Our View
We remain totally opposed to illegal cross-
border trading and counterfeiting of tobacco
products. We are committed to working with
government authorities and international
organisations around the world to counter
the illicit trade in tobacco products.
2007 Update
In general, levels of excise duty have been
steadily increasing in recent years in a number
of markets in which we operate and this
trend continued in EU Member States in
2007. Nearly all the Member States that
joined the EU in May 2004 and January
2007 have continued to implement excise
duty increases as they move towards the
minimum EU level. 
In the European Union, the EU Tobacco
Excise Tax Directive contains a provision for
it to be evaluated every four years. As part
of the current review a technical consultation
document was published on 30 March 2007
seeking overall excise duty simpliﬁcation
and a narrowing of ﬁne cut and cigarette
excise duty. The European Commission is
expected to issue a formal report, with ﬁrm
proposals to amend the minimum levels of
excise duty relating to tobacco, by the end
of 2007. Discussions at Member State,
European Parliament and European Council
level are expected to follow in 2008. The
new EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is
then expected to be adopted in 2009, with
implementation in the period 2010 – 2012.
We have continued to work with customs
authorities in a number of countries around
the world to counter the illicit trade in tobacco
products. We have now signed formal
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) in 
a number of countries including the UK,
Ireland, Turkey and China, with similar
industry wide co-operation agreements in
Australia and the Ukraine.
Tobacco-Related Litigation
We are not facing any active tobacco-
related litigation in the UK.
In the Republic of Ireland, the number of
tobacco-related claims has fallen from 307
in 1997, to 11. Ten of these claims are
subject to dismissal motions. The other
claim is inactive. The dismissal motion in
respect of one claimant was heard by 
the Dublin High Court in November and
December 2006. In April 2007, the court
ruled that this claim should be dismissed.
This decision has been appealed and the
dismissal motions in respect of the nine
other active claims have been stayed
pending the appeal. No date has been 
set for the appeal hearing.
We are no longer facing any claims in
Poland. In November 2006, we received a
favourable judgment in a case brought against
us by an individual. Also in November 2006,
an appeal court upheld the dismissal in
March 2006 of a separate individual case.
Neither claimant has appealed these decisions
and they are now out of time to do so.
Despite threats to do so, no proceedings
have been commenced against us in 
the Netherlands.
Following our acquisition of
Commonwealth Brands in April 2007,
we are currently facing two claims brought
by individuals in the United States of America,
one of which has been dismissed but could
still theoretically be appealed; the other is
inactive and has been for some time. A
third case against Commonwealth Brands
was dismissed in June 2007 and cannot 
be appealed. This is consistent with the
considerable improvements we have 
seen in the US litigation environment.
To date, no judgment has been entered
against Imperial Tobacco and no action 
has been settled in favour of a claimant 
in any tobacco-related litigation involving
Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its
lawyers that it has meritorious defences to
the legal proceedings in which damages are
sought for alleged tobacco-related health
effects. We will continue to vigorously
contest all such litigation against us.
2007 Update
The second Conference of Parties (all
countries which have ratiﬁed the FCTC)
took place in July 2007. During the meeting,
the draft guideline on protection from
Environmental Tobacco Smoke (Article 8)
was unanimously adopted and it was decided
that further work will be conducted on
product regulation and illicit trade. New
work agreed includes the development of
guidelines in the following areas: advertising
and sponsorship, packaging and labelling,
smoking cessation, tobacco industry
interference and education. The development
work for a protocol that would focus solely
on cross-border advertising has been
suspended following the decision for a
comprehensive guideline on advertising,
sponsorship and promotion.
Pictorial Health Warnings
Pictorial health warnings are mandatory in a
number of countries including Canada, Brazil,
Australia, Thailand and Singapore. Other
countries around the world are considering
the use of pictorial health warnings.
Our View
We do not believe that pictorial health
warnings are necessary. It is our view that
such warnings are designed solely to shock
and stigmatise smokers, and we disagree
with their use. We believe that pictorial health
warnings make no overall contribution to the
public awareness of the risks associated
with smoking, which are already well known.
We believe that we are entitled to use our
packaging to enable our consumers to
distinguish our products from those of 
our competitors.
2007 Update
Belgium was the ﬁrst EU Member State to
adopt legislation requiring pictorial health
warnings to be introduced for cigarettes.
Following our challenge to the Belgian
regulations, the Ministry of Health changed
the regulations and now requires 14 pictorial
health warnings, instead of the 42 originally
proposed. Products bearing the new 
health warnings appeared on shelves 
from early 2007.
The UK Government has announced that
from October 2008 pictorial health warnings
will be required on all tobacco product packs.
In New Zealand, a health warning and
corresponding graphic must cover 30 per
cent of the front and 90 per cent of the back
of cigarette packs from February 2008. In
T aiwan, pictorial health warning legislation is
expected to take effect from January 2009.
Other countries considering the use of pictorial
health warnings include Latvia, Slovakia,
Switzerland and the Republic of Ireland. www.imperial-tobacco.com 11
Our Strategic Objectives
We deliver our strategy by actively pursuing
three primary objectives:
Sales Development
We are growing our business internationally
through organic growth and acquisitions.
Strong Geographic Footprint
We have a strong international proﬁle, with
our products sold in over 130 countries.
We see opportunities, both organic and
acquisition-led, to enhance and extend our
existing operations in our Rest of Western
Europe, United States and Rest of the World
regions, with our strong positions in the 
UK and Germany continuing to be key
contributors to our overall results.
Our historical roots are in the UK and we
have held a signiﬁcant position in Germany
since our acquisition of Reemtsma. In both
these markets, our strategic focus is the
proﬁtable development of our strong portfolio
across all product groups.
We operate in Western Europe with
important markets including the Netherlands,
1
1
the Republic of Ireland, France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Greece and
Italy. In these countries we are focused on
building our cigarette market shares, along
with strengthening our position in ﬁne cut
tobacco and rolling papers.
Outside Western Europe we have
strengths in sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle
East, selected countries in Central and
Eastern Europe, Asia and Australasia and 
in Duty Free. Our key markets within these
regions include the Ivory Coast, Saudi Arabia,
Poland, Russia, Ukraine, T aiwan and Australia.
Our strategy continues to be focused on
developing our international strategic and
regional brands and expanding our presence
in both existing and new markets. Our
recent acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands gives us an established platform
from which to grow in the US market.
We continue to seek acquisitions which
increase both our international scale and
penetration of our targeted markets,
particularly where those businesses 
have highly complementary geographic
proﬁles and strong brand portfolios.
A strategy that delivers globally
Our strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by
growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Broad Product and Brand Portfolio
Our broad product and brand portfolio
includes international cigarette brands such
as Davidoff and West and strong regional
and local brands such as JPS, Lambert &
Butler, Classic, Maxim, Excellence and
Horizon. Complementing our cigarette
portfolio is our world leadership in ﬁne 
cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes 
with brands such as Golden Virginia, 
Drum and Rizla. To ensure we continue 
to leverage and build brand equity, our
brand strategy takes a portfolio approach
responsive to individual market dynamics
and price segmentation.
Cost Optimisation and 
Efficiency Improvements
Our continued focus on reducing costs 
and improving our efﬁciency supports our
sales development. Our ongoing search 
for productivity improvements, through 
the effective use of our assets and by
optimising our manufacturing capacity,
is the primary driver of our manufacturing
strategy. We seek continuous performance
improvements and believe there is further
potential for cost savings through our
ongoing programme of standardisation 
and the extension of best practice across
all our manufacturing facilities, while
safeguarding our reputation for quality,
ﬂexibility and innovation.
This cost focus extends beyond
manufacturing and, throughout Imperial
Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost
optimisation and shareholder value creation.
Effective Cash Management
Imperial Tobacco is a highly cash generative
business. Our focus is on managing capital
expenditure and working capital, tax and
interest costs. Our strategy is to ensure 
that the cash we generate is used efﬁciently
through acquisitions, organic investment
and returning funds to our shareholders, 
adding to our value creation. 
We have invested £6.2 billion in
acquisitions since our listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 1996 and have
returned over £0.8 billion to shareholders
through our share buyback programme. 
We are committed to continuing to expand
our business through both acquisitions 
and organic investment opportunities. 
Our dividend policy is to increase dividends
broadly in line with growth in adjusted
earnings per share, with a payout ratio 
of around 50 per cent.
1
3
1
2
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
To create sustainable 
shareholder value by growing both 
organically and through acquisitions
Sales 
development
Cost optimisation
and efficiency 
improvements
Effective cash
management
1 2 3
Measuring success (Key Performance Indicators)
Adjusted earnings per
share 
Cash conversion 
rate
Cigarette market
share
Volumes Productivity
Total shareholder return Adjusted operating 
margin
Group strategy
Strategic objectives A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by management and is embedded
into our corporate planning process.
12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
For more see the Corporate Governance
section of this Report
p32
Principal risks and uncertainties
Each area of the business is required to
formally review their principal areas of risk
and uncertainty so that major risks are
reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This is an ongoing process, ensuring there
are clear and consistent procedures for
monitoring, updating and implementing
appropriate controls to manage the
identiﬁed risks. The Board acknowledges
responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control. More detailed
information on the Group’s approach 
to risk management is found in the
Corporate Governance Report.
We are subject to the same general
risks and uncertainties as any other
business, for example, the political stability
in the countries in which we operate and
source our raw materials, the impact of
natural disasters and changes in general
economic conditions including currency
and interest rate ﬂuctuations, changes 
in taxation legislation and the impact 
of competition. 
Outlined below is a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that are
speciﬁc to, and may impact, our business.
Not all these factors are within the Group’s
control. There may be other risks and
uncertainties which are unknown to the
Group or which may not be material 
now but could turn out to be material 
in the future.
A more detailed description of the 
risks relating to us and to the proposed
acquisition of Altadis is set out in Part III 
of our circular to shareholders dated 
18 July 2007 and is available on our
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com
Regulation
The tobacco industry is subject to
substantial and increasing regulation. 
For many years the trend has been
towards an increasingly restrictive
regulatory environment. In many of 
the markets in which we operate, 
there are regulatory restrictions affecting 
the manufacture, development, sale,
distribution, marketing and advertising 
of tobacco products. Increased regulation
may increase our operating costs and
may have an adverse effect on the
demand for our products. 
Excise Duty 
Increasing excise duty on tobacco products
is likely to reduce the demand for tobacco
products. Tobacco products are subject
to excise duty which, in many of the markets
in which we operate, represents a
substantial percentage of the retail price
and has been steadily increasing in recent
years. Increasing levels of excise duty
have, among other things, encouraged
consumers in affected markets to switch
from premium priced cigarettes to lower
priced cigarettes and ﬁne cut tobacco. 
Substantial increases in excise duty
and any signiﬁcantly unfavourable change
in the tax treatment of ﬁne cut tobacco, 
if widely adopted, may have an adverse
effect on the size of individual duty paid
markets for our products.
Excise duty increases have also
encouraged both legal and illegal cross-
border trade from countries with lower
levels of duty and the production of
counterfeit tobacco products. Within 
such an environment there is a risk that
we and/or our employees may be 
subject to investigation by customs 
or other authorities. Although we have
implemented procedures to detect and
control illegal trading of our products,
such procedures can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
of detecting non-compliance by managing
rather than eliminating risk.
Further information regarding certain
investigations initiated by the German
authorities in January 2003 in relation 
to alleged foreign trading and related
violations by a number of people,
including former Reemtsma employees,
during a period prior to our 2002
acquisition of Reemtsma, is included 
in the Corporate Governance Report.
Key Market Dependency
The continued organic growth of the
business is underpinned by our key
markets. Any material decline in the
performance of these markets may 
impact our future proﬁt development. 
Competition Law
We have signiﬁcant market positions in
certain markets. As a result, we may be
subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny as 
to competition law in these markets, which
could result in adverse regulatory action by
relevant authorities, including the potential 
for monetary ﬁnes, and negative publicity. 
Along with a number of other companies
we supplied information to the UK Ofﬁce
of Fair Trading (OFT) in October 2003 
and April 2005 in relation to an enquiry
into the operations of the UK tobacco
supply chain, but to date no substantive
response to any of the information
submitted has been received from the
OFT. The OFT’s enquiry is continuing. 
In the event that the OFT ultimately
decides that a company has infringed 
UK competition law, it may impose a ﬁne. 
Litigation 
We may incur substantial costs in
connection with health-related litigation.
Various tobacco litigation claims are
pending against the Group. To date, no
tobacco litigation claim brought against
Imperial Tobacco has been successful
and/or resulted in the recovery of damages.
However, if any individual claim were to 
be successful, it may result in a signiﬁcant
liability for damages, and may lead to Our KPIs are defined
in full in the Glossary
p56
www.imperial-tobacco.com 13
Adjusted Earnings
Per Share
Key Performance Indicators 2007 performance Previous years
Total Shareholder
Return
Adjusted Operating
Margin
Cash Conversion
Rate
Cigarette Market
Share
1
Volumes
Measuring our performance
Key Performance Indicators are the principal measures used
by the Board to assess performance against our strategy. 
Productivity
2006: 14%
2005: 40%
2006: 122.2p
2005: 112.2p
2006: 42.9%
2005: 41.5% 
2006: 98%
2005: 101% 
2006: 45.5%
2005: 44.5% 
2006: 20.7%
2005: 19.4% 
2006: 186.9bn
2005: 175.2bn 
2006: 25,500t
2005: 26,600t 
2006: up by 6%
2005: up by 15% 
30%
136. 7p
45.0%
81%
46.4%
UK 
21.3%
Germany
200.3bn
Cigarette
24,450t
Fine Cut Tobacco
upby7%
further claims against us. Regardless 
of the outcome of pending litigation,
the costs of defending such claims 
can be substantial and may not be 
fully recoverable.
Proposed Acquisition of Altadis
The proposed acquisition of Altadis 
is conditional on 80 per cent of Altadis
shareholders accepting our offer and
on Altadis shareholders resolving to
amend Altadis bye-laws to remove
certain restrictions on voting rights.
While we believe that we have a
proven track record of integrating
acquisitions, the success of the
proposed acquisition will be dependent
on our ability to integrate Altadis
without disruption to our and its
existing business. The integration of
Altadis may involve particular challenges
and will require management attention
that would otherwise be devoted to
running our business. We can offer 
no assurance that we will be able to
realise the potential beneﬁts of the
proposed acquisition to the extent
envisaged and within the timeframe
contemplated. If we are unable to
successfully integrate Altadis, this could
have a negative impact on the revenue,
proﬁt and ﬁnancial condition of the
enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group. 
The circular relating to the proposed
acquisition of Altadis is available on our
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com
Part III of the circular outlines in detail 
the risk factors relating to the 
proposed acquisition.
1. Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2. Excluding Commonwealth Brands
3. Excluding our Lahr factory in Germany, which was impacted by the 
cessation of Singles production. The factory was subsequently closed
in March 2007
23 14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Financial Review
In 2007 we delivered another record ﬁnancial performance.
Financial strength
In 2007, revenue was £12,344 million
compared to £11,676 million in 2006.
Excluding duty and similar items, net
revenue was £3,280 million (2006: 
£3,162 million).
Adjusted proﬁt from operations was 
up 9 per cent to £1,475 million and Group
adjusted operating margin rose to 45.0 per
cent (2006: 42.9 per cent). Reported proﬁt
from operations grew 8 per cent to £1,418
million (2006: £1,311 million).
Good organic growth throughout the
business with volume increases and pricing
improvements have offset the cessation 
of Singles in Germany. Our overall results
beneﬁted from six months contribution from
Commonwealth Brands following its
acquisition in April.
Group Operating Performance 
2007 2006
£m £m
Net revenue 3,280 3,162
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 1,475 1,356
Amortisation of acquired trademarks (23) –
Restructuring costs – (45)
Fair value movements on derivatives (34) –
Proﬁt from operations 1,418 1,311
Adjusted operating margin 45.0% 42.9%
increase was due to higher average adjusted
net debt of £4.3 billion (2006: £3.5 billion)
and a marginally higher average all in cost
of debt of 5.5 per cent (2006: 5.4 per cent)
reﬂecting higher euro interest rates on our
ﬂoating rate debt. Adjusted interest cover
was 6.2 times (2006: 7.2 times). Reported
net ﬁnance costs of £181 million (2006:
£143 million) included retirement beneﬁt 
net ﬁnance income of £54 million (2006:
£46 million) and fair value gains on interest
rate derivatives of £2 million (2006: loss
of £1 million). 
Proﬁt Before Tax
Adjusted proﬁt before tax was £1,238
million, up 6 per cent on 2006. Reported
proﬁt before tax increased to £1,237 million
(2006: £1,168 million). 
Taxation
The adjusted tax charge for the year 
was £310 million (2006: £310 million),
representing an adjusted effective tax 
rate of 25.0 per cent (2006: 26.5 per cent).
The reported tax charge was £325 million
(2006: £310 million).
Earnings and Dividends
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 
12 per cent to 136.7 pence (2006: 122.2
pence) and basic earnings per share
increased by 10 per cent to 134.3 pence
(2006: 122.2 pence). We have proposed 
a ﬁnal dividend of 48.5 pence such that the 
total dividend for the year is 69.5 pence, an
increase of 12 per cent. Following approval
by shareholders, this dividend will be paid 
on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 
18 January 2008. Our policy remains to 
grow dividends broadly in line with adjusted
earnings per share, with a payout ratio 
of around 50 per cent.
Net Debt and Cash
At 30 September 2007, our reported net
debt had increased to £4.9 billion (2006:
£3.9 billion). Eliminating the fair value of
interest rate derivatives and accrued
interest of £0.1 billion (2006: £0.1 billion),
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
Trademark Amortisation, 
Restructuring Costs and Derivative
Financial Instruments
Reported proﬁt from operations in 2007
included trademark amortisation costs of 
£23 million, principally related to trademarks
acquired under the Commonwealth Brands
acquisition, and £34 million fair value losses 
on derivative ﬁnancial instruments on
commercially effective hedges. 
The 2006 restructuring costs of £45
million relate to the closures of our Lahr 
and Liverpool factories. There were no
restructuring costs in 2007.
Net Finance Costs
Adjusted net ﬁnance costs increased to
£237 million (2006: £188 million). This www.imperial-tobacco.com 15
our adjusted net debt was £4.8 billion
(2006: £3.8 billion). The increase in adjusted
net debt was primarily due to the acquisition
of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007. 
During the year to 30 September 2007,
we spent a further £105 million, including
transaction costs, acquiring 5.7 million of
our shares at an average market price of
£18.31 per share. Prior to the suspension
of our share buyback programme, at 
the time of our announcement of the
Commonwealth Brands acquisition, 
we had spent a cumulative £862 million,
including transaction costs, buying back
51.7 million shares representing 7.1 per
cent of issued share capital.
Our cash conversion for year ended
September 2007 was 81 per cent (2006: 98
per cent). This is lower than our targeted rate
of around 100 per cent due to a higher level
of net capital expenditure, as well as a short
term increase in working capital of £194
million as a result of stock building in certain
Central European markets in advance of duty
increases due in January 2008.
Acquisitions
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands
was completed on 2 April 2007. In January
2007, we also acquired a controlling
interest in Tremaco, a tobacco and
tobacco-related products distribution
business based in Estonia.
Financing of the Proposed 
Acquisition of Altadis
The proposed acquisition of Altadis will be
ﬁnanced through new bank debt facilities
and a rights issue.
Regional Performance Analysis
Net Adjusted proﬁt Cigarette FineCut 
revenue from operations volumes Tobacco Volumes
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m bn bn tonnes tonnes
UK 876 835 564 506 22.9 23.4 2,200 2,100
Germany 524 575 238 270 20.4 19.9 4,700 6,300
Rest of Western Europe 635 637 326 324 19.6 20.1 14,900 15,100
United States 117 14 52 4 7.1 – 100 –
Rest of the World 1,128 1,101 295 252 130.3 123.5 2,550 2,000
Total 3,280 3,162 1,475 1,356 200.3 186.9 24,450 25,500
Detail on our regional performance can be found on pages 17 to 23 of this report.
At the time of launching our proposed offer
in July, new bank facilities of £9.2 billion
were put in place ready to reﬁnance certain
existing Imperial and Altadis bank facilities,
as well as to provide the debt portion of 
the acquisition funding. 
As the proceeds of the rights issue will
not be available on completion of the deal
and in order to satisfy the requirements for
bank guarantees (avales) to be issued in
respect of the total consideration payable,
an equity bridge facility of £5.4 billion was
put in place to cover the funding requirements
until the rights issue process is complete. 
The rights issue will occur before 18 July
2008 and will be sized to ensure that we
issue the minimum amount of equity
needed to maintain an investment grade
credit rating, to which we are committed.
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to ‘Rest
of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for 2006 have
been re-stated accordingly. Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business have been re-
classiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘United States’ as the United States segment has been introduced following
the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands. 16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review
Strong brands
Our key global brands of Davidoff, West, Drum, Golden Virginia and Rizla
are complemented by a strong portfolio of regional and local brands such 
as Lambert & Butler, Classic, JPS, Horizon, Maxim and Excellence.
“We have seen some
excellent performances
from our key strategic
cigarette brands, Davidoff
and West, supported by good
progress from a number of 
our regional brands with
JPS a particular highlight.”
Graham Blashill
Group Sales and Marketing Director
JPS is our key low-priced cigarette brand and is
growing in a number of markets across Western
Europe.
Davidoff is sold in over 100 countries worldwide and is
particularly strong in Taiwan, Greece and the Middle East.
Drum is the second largest ﬁne cut tobacco brand
in the world, sold in over 45 markets worldwide. 
Rizla is available in over 120 markets worldwide
and is the number one rolling paper brand in the
UK, Belgium, Greece, France, Italy, Scandinavia 
and Africa.
Golden Virginia is the number one ﬁne cut tobacco
brand in the UK. It is sold in over 35 markets,
predominately in Western Europe.
West is our largest international volume brand,
with signiﬁcant presence in Germany, Central and
Eastern Europe. www.imperial-tobacco.com 17
United Kingdom
We continued to build on our market leading position in the UK 
and have delivered excellent financial results.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £876m £835m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £564m £506m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 22.9bn 23.4bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 2,200t 2,100t
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
47.9bn 49.1bn
Market size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
3,500t 3,250t
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
46.4% 45.5%
Imperial Tobacco market share: 
ﬁne cut tobacco
1
63.6% 65.3%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Market Dynamics
We estimate that the total UK cigarette
market was down 2 per cent to 47.9 billion,
with strong growth in the value and economy
sector continuing, now accounting for over
44 per cent of the total market. Following 
a buoyant ﬁrst half, the cigarette market
declined in the second half following the
introduction of bans on smoking in public
places and the poor weather. The ﬁne cut
tobacco market grew by 8 per cent to
3,500 tonnes (2006: 3,250 tonnes), with
downtrading into and within the segment.
A ban on smoking in public places was
introduced in England on 1 July 2007,
following similar bans in Wales and
Northern Ireland, earlier in the year. As
anticipated, and in line with our experiences
in other markets with similar legislation,
these have resulted in an initial decline 
in cigarette market volumes.
per cent) and the UK’s number two brand,
Richmond, was up at 15.7 per cent (2006:
15.5 per cent). Following the introduction 
of Windsor Blue last year, the brand
continued to grow strongly in the economy
sector capturing 2.6 per cent share of the
total market.
In ﬁne cut tobacco, our market share
dipped to 63.6 per cent (2006: 65.3 per
cent) but Golden Virginia continues to 
lead the market. We launched Gold Leaf
in June 2007 in the value segment, and
had grown to 1.6 per cent market share 
in September 2007. We are the UK market
leader in rolling papers and, in August, we
launched a new variant Rizla Smooth with
positive results to date.
Outlook
The UK is an important proﬁt centre for the
Group. With our broad product and brand
portfolio and the initiatives we have taken 
in the economy cigarette and the value ﬁne
cut tobacco sectors, we believe we are well
placed to continue to build on our market
leading position.
Once the initial impact of public smoking
bans has dissipated, we expect annual
cigarette market declines of 3 to 4 per cent 
in line with the long term trend. On 1
October 2007, the minimum age for the
sale of tobacco products by retailers in
England, Scotland and Wales was
increased from 16 to 18.
Our Performance
In the UK, net revenue grew by 5 per cent,
to £876 million, with adjusted proﬁt from
operations up by 11 per cent to £564
million. This strong ﬁnancial performance
reﬂects growth in our cigarette market
share, cost savings and pricing
improvements.
Our cigarette market share climbed to
46.4 per cent (2006: 45.5 per cent). The
UK’s best selling cigarette brand, Lambert &
Butler, was up to 16.6 per cent (2006: 16.2 18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Germany
Our cigarette share grew in Germany, with JPS continuing 
its strong upward trend.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £524m £575m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £238m £270m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 20.4bn 19.9bn
Imperial Tobacco other tobacco products
volumes (as cigarette equivalents) 8.0bn 10.0bn
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
91bn 92bn
Market size: other tobacco products 
(as cigarette equivalents)
1
36bn 43bn
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
21.3% 20.7%
Imperial Tobacco market share: other 
tobacco products (as cigarette equivalents)
1
19.1% 21.8%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to
‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for
2006 have been restated accordingly.
Market Dynamics 
The German market continued to be
impacted by the cessation of the make 
your own Singles product, following the
change in taxation status of the product in
April 2006. This, combined with successive
tobacco tax increases, has increased 
both legal and illegal cross-border ﬂows 
into Germany.
We estimate that the overall tobacco
market in 2007 was down 6 per cent to
127 billion cigarette equivalents (2006: 135
billion). The cigarette market fell slightly to
91 billion cigarettes (2006: 92 billion), with
downtrading continuing, resulting in strong
growth in the low price branded cigarette
smoking areas as well as a total ban 
on public transport, came into effect on 
1 September 2007. Legislation for hospitality
venues such as cafes, bars and restaurants
and regional state government buildings
continues to be debated at the Regional
State level, with the implementation of further
restrictions planned in the coming months. 
Our Performance
In Germany, net revenue fell to £524 million,
with adjusted proﬁt from operations down
to £238 million. Our results beneﬁted from
continued growth in our cigarette market
share and cost efﬁciencies, but were
adversely affected by the cessation of the
proﬁtable Singles product and the decline 
in the total duty paid tobacco market.
Our cigarette market share grew to 
21.3 per cent (2006: 20.7 per cent), with 
an excellent performance from JPS which
increased its market share to 6.4 per cent
(2006: 3.8 per cent). Along with other mid
priced brands, West, the second largest
cigarette brand in Germany, continued 
to be impacted by downtrading with its
market share down to 7.2 per cent (2006:
8.2 per cent). Davidoff, in the premium
sector, remained broadly stable at 1.0 
per cent of the total cigarette market 
(2006: 1.1 per cent).
Our market share of other tobacco
products was down to 19.1 per cent 
(2006: 21.8 per cent) impacted by the
migration of former Singles consumers, 
and increased competition in this sector.
Our make your own West and JPS Single
Tobacco products and newly launched
Route 66 make your own tobacco
performed well and have captured a
signiﬁcant share of this growing segment.
Outlook
We are focused on continuing the positive
developments in our cigarette market share.
We believe we are well positioned to beneﬁt
from the downtrading environment, given
our strength in value cigarettes and our
broad product portfolio. 
segment, now 19.1 per cent of the cigarette
market compared to 11.4 per cent a year ago.
Other tobacco products were down 16
per cent to 36 billion cigarette equivalents
(2006: 43 billion). In 2006, Singles accounted
for 20 billion cigarette equivalents of the
total other tobacco products sector. In line
with our view at our interim results in May,
we estimate that approximately 20 per cent
of former Singles consumers have moved
into duty paid cigarettes, 55 per cent into
other tobacco products and 25 per cent
into both legal and illegal cross-border ﬂows.
The Federal Government’s ban on
smoking in all federal government buildings,
whilst allowing for the provision of separate www.imperial-tobacco.com 19
Rest of Western Europe
Our cigarette share grew in a number of markets in our Rest 
of Western Europe region, reflecting growth in Davidoff, West
and JPS. 
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £635m £637m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £326m £324m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 19.6bn 20.1bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 14,900t 15,100t
Regional Overview
2007 2006
Regional size: cigarette
1
320bn 320bn
Regional size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
31,200t 30,450t
Imperial Tobacco Market Shares
1
Cigarette Fine Cut Tobacco
2007 2006 2007 2006
Belgium 10.6% 10.2% 10.9% 10.4%
France 4.0% 3.6% 26.7% 28.0%
Greece 9.7% 8.4% 43.8% 45.2%
Ireland 26.4% 26.2% 65.6% 67.4%
Italy 1.3% 1.5% 49.0% 54.1%
Netherlands 10.6% 8.9% 51.1% 51.1%
Portugal 4.1% 3.4% 42.5% 57.7%
Spain 5.9% 6.4% 56.2% 58.8%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
our cigarette shares and beneﬁted from
pricing improvements, but results were
impacted by lower travel retail sales and
euro exchange rates.
Cigarette Performance
Our cigarette market share was up to 
10.6 per cent in the Netherlands with an
excellent performance from JPS. Route 66
and newly launched JPS grew our market
share in Belgium to 10.6 per cent. JPS
delivered another good performance in
France, where market share was up to 
4.0 per cent. In Ireland, our market share
improvement to 26.4 per cent was driven
by John Player Blue. In Greece, Davidoff
and West continued to grow strongly 
with our total market share continuing its
upward trend to 9.7 per cent. In Spain our
market share was impacted by lower travel
retail sales and was down to 5.9 per cent,
while in Portugal our market share climbed
to 4.1 per cent, again with strong growth
from JPS.
Fine Cut Tobacco Performance
In ﬁne cut tobacco the market remains
extremely competitive, although the
portfolio extension and repositioning
initiatives we have undertaken have 
started to deliver some market share
improvements. Newly launched Bastos
has grown our market share in Belgium 
to 10.9 per cent, while in the Netherlands,
the largest ﬁne cut tobacco market in the
region, our overall market share was stable
at 51.1 per cent with Zilver and Evergreen
performing well. Despite growth in JPS, 
our market share was down in France to
26.7 per cent, due to increased competition
from cigarette branded ﬁne cut tobacco
launches. In Italy, Peter Stuyvesant make
your own was launched in April and has
been successful, capturing 2.9 per cent of
the ﬁne cut tobacco market by September.
Outlook
The strength of our broad portfolio continues
to offer us a number of growth opportunities.
We are focused on further developing the
positive momentum behind our growing
cigarette shares. Although we expect the
ﬁne cut tobacco market will continue to be
challenging, we will focus on ensuring the
success of the initiatives we have taken
with our ﬁne cut tobacco portfolio.
Regional Dynamics 
We estimate that the regional cigarette
market was stable at 320 billion cigarettes
with the annual regional ﬁne cut tobacco
market up to 31,200 tonnes. The pricing
environment is improving with increases 
in a number of markets, including Spain,
the Netherlands and France. 
The introduction of bans on smoking 
in public places continues to be debated 
at both the EU and Member State level,
including further restrictions introduced in
France on 1 February 2007. Pictorial health
warnings appeared on cigarette packs in
Belgium in early 2007.
Our Performance
Net revenue was down slightly to £635
million, with adjusted proﬁt from operations
up slightly to £326 million. We have grown 20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
United States
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007 has
significantly increased our presence in this profitable market.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £117m £14m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £52m £4m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 7.1bn –
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 100t –
Our 2007 results include six months contribution for Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired on 2 April 2007.
Market Overview
2007 2006
Market size: cigarette
1
367bn 379bn
Market size: ﬁne cut tobacco
1
10,000t 9,100t
Imperial Tobacco market share: cigarettes
1
3.7% –
Imperial Tobacco market share: 1.0% –
ﬁne cut tobacco
1
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Market Dynamics
The US is the world’s second largest
cigarette market by volume after China,
accounting for a signiﬁcant percentage of
the tobacco industry global proﬁts. In 2007,
we estimate that the overall cigarette
market declined by 3 per cent to 367 billion
cigarettes (2006: 379 billion), with the
discount sector accounting for around 27
per cent of the total cigarette market. 
The other tobacco products sector is
dominated by smokeless tobacco products
which account for approximately 60 per
cent of the market. Cigars and cigarillos
account for 30 per cent, with ﬁne cut
tobacco and pipe tobacco the remaining 10
per cent. We estimate that the ﬁne cut
tobacco market grew 10 per cent to 10,000
tonnes (2006: 9,100 tonnes). 
Legislation proposing an increase in federal
excise tax on tobacco has been unsuccessful,
but debate on this issue continues. A bill that
and Sonoma holding 8.2 per cent and
4.8 per cent of the discount cigarette
sector respectively.
We have an existing strong presence 
in rolling papers and tubes, which grew
volumes by 13 per cent and 8 per cent
respectively in the year. In July 2007, we
completed the purchase of the Bali Shag
and McClintock ﬁne cut tobacco brands
from Peter Stokkebye. Prior to this,
Commonwealth Brands was the exclusive
distributor of these two brands, which 
have a combined market share of around 
1 per cent of the ﬁne cut tobacco market.
We continue to progress our own Master
Settlement Agreement application and have
had very constructive dialogue with the
National Association of Attorneys General
and representatives from several settling
states. We expect to complete our application
in a few weeks.
The integration of our existing 
rolling papers and tubes business with
Commonwealth Brands has progressed
well, with our New Jersey sales and
marketing operations transferring to the
Commonwealth Brands ofﬁce in Bowling
Green, Kentucky.
Outlook
We have ﬁnalised plans for the launch of our
brands and are in a position to begin their
roll out once we have completed all aspects
of becoming a Participating Manufacturer in
the Master Settlement Agreement.
We believe we are well positioned to
develop our business in the US with our
versatile, multi-product portfolio and an
enhanced platform from which to launch
our brands and products. 
would give the Food & Drug Administration
authority to regulate tobacco products is also
being debated. In recent times, we have
seen considerable improvements in the
litigation environment, reﬂecting the fact that
the great majority of individual and class action
claims have been decided in favour of the
tobacco industry.
Our Performance
Including six months contribution for
Commonwealth Brands, which was acquired
on 2 April 2007, net revenue for the year was
£117 million (2006: £14 million), with adjusted
proﬁt from operations £52 million (2006: 
£4 million). 
Cigarette volumes were 7.1 billion, 
with our cigarette market share at 3.7 per
cent of the total cigarette market and at
13.4 per cent in the discount sector. The
Commonwealth brand portfolio is focused
on the discount sector with USA Gold www.imperial-tobacco.com 21
International expansion
Our success is built on the consistent and successful execution of our strategy.
We have grown our business internationally both organically and through
acquisitions in recent years.
+5%
Davidoff volume growth in 2007
Our US cigarette market share:
3.7%
of the total market 
13.4%
of the discount sector
skruf.
> Following our investment in 
Skruf in 2005, we have focused 
on developing our snus position.
> We have grown our cigarette
market share in Norway to 3.5 per
cent following our 2006 acquisition
of Gunnar Stenberg.
> We have introduced a number 
of our own brands into Estonia,
following our acquisition of
Tremaco in January 2007.
Commonwealth Brands
On 2 April 2007 we acquired Commonwealth
Brands, the fourth largest cigarette manufacturer 
in the US for US$1.9 billion.
US Key Brands
The two key brands are USA Gold and Sonoma,
which hold 8.2 per cent and 4.8 per cent of the
discount cigarette sector respectively.
Scandinavia
We have expanded our Central European footprint 
in recent years, with investments and acquisitions 
in Sweden, Norway and Estonia.
Davidoff
Following the acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff
cigarette trademark in September 2006 we have
accelerated the brand’s development and widened its
geographic proﬁle with brand launches in a number of
new markets. 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Rest of the World
The diversity of this region provides opportunities for us to continue to
expand our business and grow our brands and profits.
Performance Highlights
2007 2006
Net revenue £1,128m £1,101m
Adjusted proﬁt from operations £295m £252m 
Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 130.3bn 123.5bn
Imperial Tobacco ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 2,550t 2,000t
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have re-classiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to
‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for
2006 have been re-stated accordingly. Similarly, the 2006 results of our US rolling papers and tubes business
have been re-classiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘United States’ as the United States segment has been
introduced following the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
Imperial Tobacco Cigarette Market Shares
1
2007 2006
Australia 17.5% 17.8%
Ivory Coast 83.3% 83.5%
Poland 16.9% 16.1%
Russia 5.5% 5.5%
Taiwan 11.7% 11.1%
Saudi Arabia 7.0% 5.1%
Ukraine 20.6% 19.0%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Our Performance
Net revenue was up at £1,128 million, with
adjusted proﬁt from operations growing
17 per cent to £295 million despite foreign
exchange losses. This proﬁt performance
reﬂects our growing cigarette volumes,
further geographic expansion and share
gains we have achieved in a number of
markets in the region.
Asia
In Asia, we have a strong presence in
Taiwan complemented by a growing
presence in Laos and Vietnam, while 
in China we continue to develop our
collaboration with the State Tobacco
Monopoly Administration and the Yuxi
Hongta Group. In Taiwan, we grew our
market share to 11.7 per cent, with a good
performance from West adding to our
Davidoff market share. We delivered 22 per
cent volume growth in Laos and increased
our market share in Vietnam to 10.6 per
cent. In China, our volumes of West and
Davidoff have grown with increased
distribution in additional cities.
Australasia
In the highly regulated mature markets of
Australia and New Zealand, we improved
proﬁtability with the beneﬁt of price increases,
despite the value segment of the cigarette
sector becoming increasingly competitive. Our
market shares were down in Australia to 17.5
per cent (2006: 17.8 per cent), and broadly
stable in New Zealand at 17.5 per cent.
Central Europe
In Central Europe, important markets 
in this region include Poland, Hungary,
Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia and the 
Czech Republic supported by our 
growing Scandinavian operations. 
We have improved our regional
proﬁtability and increased our cigarette
market shares in a number of markets
including the Czech Republic and Poland.
Brand highlights include Moon in the Czech
Republic, Golden Gate in Hungary and
Slovakia, JPS in Austria and West in
Slovenia and Poland. The EU accession
countries in this region have rising taxes as
they work towards reaching EU minimum
tax levels by the end of their derogation
periods. In this environment, ﬁne cut
tobacco has grown, with our regional
volumes doubling during the year.
In Scandinavia, we have made progress
in developing our snus position growing 
our volumes by 46 per cent. Following our
acquisition of Tremaco in Estonia in January
2007, we have introduced a number of 
our own brands, while in Norway we have
grown our cigarette market share to 3.5 per
cent with growth in Davidoff, Paramount
and West. 
Eastern Europe
In Eastern Europe, alongside our established
positions in Ukraine and Russia we have
growing operations in Turkey and the
Caucasus. Regional cigarette volumes
continued to grow strongly. In Russia while
our market share was stable at 5.5 per cent,
Davidoff improved its performance. In Ukraine,
our volumes increased and our market share
continued its upward trend to 20.6 per cent
(2006: 19.0 per cent), with volume increases
for major brands particularly Classic, West
and Davidoff. In Turkey, our market share has
grown to 2.5 per cent and our volumes have
risen by 85 per cent, with strong growth in www.imperial-tobacco.com 23
West, Klasik and Davidoff. In the Caucasus,
we delivered signiﬁcant volume increases
with good performances from West, 
Davidoff and R1. 
Africa and the Middle East
We have an established presence in the
sub-Saharan region of Africa and in the
Middle East, where Davidoff is our leading
brand. Our market shares grew in a number
of markets across the region including
Senegal with growth in Excellence,
Madagascar with Good Look performing
well, Burkina Faso with Mustang and the
Ivory Coast with Fine.
In the Middle East region, Davidoff has
again been driving growth with volumes 
up by 29 per cent and market share gains
across the region including Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and UAE. 
Americas and Duty Free
We are focused on building our presence
into other markets in the Americas region.
We launched Davidoff into Canada and
West and Davidoff into Mexico.
In duty free, our cigarette volumes 
have remained stable and ﬁne cut tobacco
volumes have grown by 27 per cent. In
particular, we have increased Davidoff’s
presence in duty free following the
introduction of new variants.
Outlook
With over 100 countries in our Rest 
of the World region it is a key area of future
investment and potential growth for the
Group. In the context of the challenges
that the geographic diversity of this region
brings, we believe there is considerable
scope for continued market and
brand development. 
We seek to deliver further cost savings
across our manufacturing footprint, 
and this year delivered £33 million of
savings from a variety of initiatives
including ongoing business simpliﬁcation
and continued cost management.
Our Performance
We increased our productivity by
7 per cent, with higher cigarette
volumes contributing to our improved
performance. We also reduced our 
unit costs in both cigarette and ﬁne 
cut tobacco, by 3 and 13 per cent
respectively. In addition, we have
further simpliﬁed our blends and
ingredients in the year.
We aim to ensure that our
manufacturing footprint is structured
effectively, to ensure a fast response 
to changing market dynamics and
consumer requirements. In order 
to meet growing demand in Eastern
Europe, we have increased the
capacity at both our Volgograd and
Kiev factories with the installation 
of new and upgraded machinery. 
We have also added cigarette and
other tobacco product machinery 
in Germany, in support of new 
product initiatives. The closures of 
our factories in Liverpool in the UK 
and Lahr in Germany were completed
on schedule by the end of March 2007. 
In March 2007, we announced our
plans to build a factory in Taiwan 
at a cost of £45 million which will 
aid the further development of our
presence in Asia. We expect to
generate annual cost savings of 
£20 million from 2010 as a result 
of a reduction in supply chain costs
and other operational efﬁciencies, 
with the factory planned to be fully
operational by the end of our 2008
ﬁnancial year.
We gained further ISO14001
accreditation in the year with
Madagascar and Burkina Faso
bringing the total number of factories
certiﬁed to 21 or 68 per cent of our
manufacturing operations.
We constantly review potential
standardisation opportunities and 
have delivered further operational
efﬁciencies. Our progress has been
reﬂected in the improvements in our
manufacturing performance indicators. 
Outlook
We are focused on the quality of
our products and on the continuing
success of our simpliﬁcation and
standardisation strategies, while
ensuring we remain responsive and
ﬂexible to changes in market and
regulatory conditions.
Manufacturing
We have a consistent approach across our 31 factories,
enabling our simpliﬁcation and standardisation strategy to deliver
performance improvements, without compromising on quality.  24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Operating Review continued
Cost efficiency
We are focused on the quality of our products and on the continuing success
of our simpliﬁcation and standardisation strategies, while ensuring we
remain responsive and ﬂexible to changes in market conditions.
“We have again delivered
excellent productivity gains
and cost progress.”
David Cresswell
Manufacturing Director
Manufacturing Excellence
We have a consistent approach across our 
31 factories enabling us to deliver performance
improvements, without compromising on quality.
Increased Productivity
We increased our productivity by 7 per cent,
with higher cigarette volumes contributing to
our improved performance.
Continued Investment
Our investment in manufacturing has increased this year,
with construction of our new factory in Taiwan underway
and other initiatives in Russia, Ukraine and Germany.
Our manufacturing assets worldwide
22
Cigarette factories
6
Other tobacco 
product factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes 
factories
Overall productivity up by
7% www.imperial-tobacco.com 25
Corporate Responsibility
We believe we can beneﬁt our shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers,
consumers and the communities in which we operate by running our 
business responsibly.
A responsible approach
Our Strategy
Our strategy is to embed the principles 
of Corporate Responsibility into our
business processes and control systems.
This enables high standards of corporate
behaviour throughout our business 
and is demonstrated by our 
performance improvements.
Performance: Overview and Progress
In 2005, we set a number of performance
objectives across four areas: corporate
responsibility management, product
stewardship, occupational health safety 
and environmental management and social
performance which were to be met by
2007. We have met, or partially met, all 
of our objectives, with notable success 
in environmental management where we
achieved all our objectives ahead of schedule.
We believe that the systems we have in
place to manage our corporate responsibility
activities are appropriate. This will assist us
in fulﬁlling our duty to promote the success
of the company, as outlined in the
Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Responsibility Management:
we have processes in place to manage our
most signiﬁcant Corporate Responsibility
issues. We have implemented a non-ﬁnancial
reporting system which enables us to
External Assessment
Our performance is reﬂected in our progress in the indices by which we benchmark
ourselves against other leading companies.
Index 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
SAM for DOW Jones – 30%* 39%* 40%* 66% 73% 73%
BITC – Corporate Responsibility – – – 54%* 86% 91% –
BITC – Environment 49% 77% 79% 83% 90% 95% –
* Informal, off-line participation scores.
> In the assessment conducted by
SAM Research for the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index 2007, our overall
score was again 73 per cent
compared with a sector average 
of 44 per cent (66 per cent in 2005)
> In the Business in the Community
Corporate Responsibility Index, 
we improved our performance from
86 per cent in the previous year 
to 91 per cent and were awarded 
a ‘Gold’ ranking
> In the Business in the Community
Environment Index we also received 
a ‘Platinum’ ranking of 95 per cent 
for our performance
> We were short-listed for the ﬁrst
Financial Times / Citi Private Bank
Environmental Award ‘Meeting the
Carbon Challenge’. We were selected
amongst the top six international
companies for the improvement 
we have made in carbon efﬁciency 
in Europe, Asia and Africa
> We were also rated 70 per cent in the
2007 Carbon Disclosure Project Index
compared to a food and beverage
sector average of 63 per cent  26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Corporate Responsibility continued
regularly review our activities and progress.
None of the Corporate Responsibility issues
we had previously identiﬁed as potentially
material risks in our Corporate Responsibility
Reviews had a material impact in the
reported year. 
Product Stewardship: we have implemented
further standards for product stewardship
and ingredient assessments. We have also
made provisions to meet the regulatory
requirements of the EU Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemicals Regulation.
Environmental Management and
Occupational Health and Safety: in 2006,
our energy consumption was down by 13
per cent
1
(2005: down by 11 per cent)
1
and
our carbon dioxide emissions were down
by 21 per cent
1
(2005: down by 20 per
cent)
1
. We also made progress in reducing
our waste output, our waste to landﬁll and
our water consumption. 
In the area of occupational health and
safety our lost time accident rates remained
stable during 2006. We operate in some
difﬁcult regions of the world and take our
responsibilities regarding the personal
security of our employees seriously.
However, during the year regrettably there
were four fatalities. A sales employee and
two security guards were assaulted and
murdered by armed militia in Africa in two
separate incidents and a fatal accident
occurred to a contractor at one of our 
UK factories, when he was crushed by 
his own vehicle. 
Social Performance: we invested £1.7
million in community activities to respond 
to local community needs and to encourage
employee activities in the communities 
in which we operate. We continued to
develop our social responsibility in tobacco
production programme involving our
suppliers and generally, a good level 
of risk management is evident. 
Further information on our performance
objectives and our progress is published 
in our Corporate Responsibility Review 
in December. 
1
Absolute values for ﬁnancial year 2006 compared with 2001 base year.
Our Five Priorities for the Next Five Years
We have ﬁve key areas of focus for our Corporate
Responsibility activities over the next ﬁve years. 
These are:
We are committed to further improvements 
in carbon management, through energy
conservation, lower carbon technologies 
and carbon offsetting.
We are committed to further improvements 
in how we manage our product portfolio
to achieve an appropriate balance between
product stewardship, regulatory demand and
the needs and preferences of our consumers.
We will continue to work with our suppliers 
to improve their economic, social and
environmental standards.
We will aim for accountability, training and
expertise to ensure a more effective local
response to Corporate Responsibility issues.
We are aiming to increase transparency that
our policies and standards are routinely and
universally observed.
Carbon
Management
Portfolio
Balance
Supplier
Standards
Local
Accountability
Policy
Evidence
In addition, we will continue our activities in the areas of occupational health,
safety and environment and community investment, as well as continuing to
develop our management systems.
Independent Veriﬁer’s Statement 
on Corporate Responsibility
The information and performance data in
our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review
has been veriﬁed by SGS United Kingdom
Limited, to determine its accuracy and
reliability and to give an opinion on our
Corporate Responsibility performance
reporting. This opinion can be found in their
assurance statement in the Review. This
year we have increased the scope and
depth of the assurance in line with the
Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines.
SGS have evaluated our Corporate
Responsibility Reporting against G3,
and in their view, our disclosure is at
level B+. The maximum achievable level 
is A+.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr www.imperial-tobacco.com 27
Summary Statutory Reports
28 Board of Directors and Chief Executive’s Committee
30 Summary Directors’ Report 
31 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
32 Summary Corporate Governance Report
Summary Financial Statements
42 Consolidated Income Statement
43 Consolidated Balance Sheet
44 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
45 Notes to the summary ﬁnancial statements
Supplementary Information
51 Shareholder Information
53 Principal Subsidiaries
55 Index
56 Glossary 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Board of Directors
The right team
Name: 1. Iain Napier, FCMA
Title & Age Chairman, 58
Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007
Non-Executive Director from March 2000
Committee Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member of the
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Chief 
experience Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass Brewers and Bass
International Brewers. He was then Vice President UK and
Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001. He was Chief
Executive of Taylor Woodrow International Housing and
Development from 2001 to 2005
External Currently Non-Executive Chairman and Director of McBride 
appointments PLC, Collins Stewart PLC and Tomkins PLC
12 3 4 5 6 7 8
Board of Directors
Name: 4. Graham Blashill, BSC
Title & Age Group Sales and Marketing Director, 60
Appointment Appointed to the Board, October 2005
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing activities.
experience With over 39 years’ experience with the Group he has held a
number of senior sales and marketing positions, including
Managing Director UK and Regional Director for 
Western Europe
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 3. Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA
Title & Age Finance Director, 54
Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Limited 
experience from November 1989 and one of the three-man Hanson team
involved in the strategic reorganisation of the Group. Since then
he has played an integral part in shaping the strategic direction
of the Group
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 2. Gareth Davis, BA
Title & Age Chief Executive, 57
Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Gareth led the successful Hanson demerger and subsequent 
experience listings on the London and New York Stock Exchanges. With 35
years experience across all aspects of the Company, he has played
a key role in the development of general strategy and the Group’ s
ongoing expansion programme
External Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003
appointments
Name: 5. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA
Title & Age Corporate Development Director, 41
Appointment Appointed to the Board, July 2007
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Alison has responsibility for strategic planning and business 
experience development, as well as for Corporate Affairs. Alison joined the
Group in 1999 and has held a number of senior roles including,
Director of Finance and Planning and Director of rest of Western
Europe. Previously she was with PricewaterhouseCoopers
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 7. Anthony Alexander, FCA
Title & Age Vice Chairman, 69
Appointment Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger in October 1996
Committee Nominations Committee
membership
Skills and Anthony was appointed Vice Chairman on demerger with 
experience Hanson in 1996. Previously he was an Executive Director of
Hanson PLC with responsibility for all UK operating companies
while serving as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 6. David Cresswell, C ENG, MIEE
Title & Age Manufacturing Director, 62
Appointment Appointed to the Board, June 2003
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and David has undertaken a number of senior management 
experience roles across the Group. An electrical engineer by background
he has previously held the position of Managing Director for
each of Imperial Tobacco’s major operating divisions, namely
cigarette, rolling papers and roll your own tobacco
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 8. Pierre Jungels, CBE (HON), C ENG, PHD
Title & Age Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 63
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, August 2002
Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member
membership of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee
Skills and Pierre has held numerous senior international positions 
experience within the oil industry with Shell International, Petroﬁna SA 
and British Gas PLC. He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in
1996, leading the business to substantial geographic and
ﬁnancial growth until retirement in November 2001
External Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of Baker 
appointments Hughes Inc., Non-Executive Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon
Mapping plc and Rockhopper Exploration PLC and a Non-
Executive Director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd www.imperial-tobacco.com 29
910 11 12 13 14 15 16
Name: 13. Mark Williamson, CA (SA)
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 49
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, July 2007
Committee Chairman of Audit Committee; and Member of the
membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee
Skills and Mark has considerable international ﬁnancial and general 
experience management experience. He joined International Power in 2000
as Group Financial Controller and was appointed to the Board
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 2003. Previously, he was Group
Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Simon
Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals storage group
External Currently serves on the Board of International Power
appointments
Name: 9. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 55
Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, April 2006
Committee Nominations Committee
membership
Skills and Ken was President, Asia Paciﬁc of Allied Domecq from 
experience 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005. Prior 
to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior management positions
in the Asia Paciﬁc region with Seagram, Interbrew and
International Distillers & Vintners Ltd (now part of Diageo plc)
External Currently serves on the Board of ID Lanka Ltd
appointments
Name: 11. Charles Knott, FCMA
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 52
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, April 2006
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007
experience Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, ICI’s 
ﬂavours and fragrances business. Previously fulﬁlled a variety 
of international assignments as a long term executive at 
National Starch, a Unilever company until 1997
External Currently CEO of Flint Group 
appointments
Name: 12. Susan Murray
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 50
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, December 2004
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited from 
experience October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief Executive 
of Littlewoods Stores Limited. Prior to this she was worldwide
President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company,
a part of Diageo plc
External Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL International
appointments PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group
PLC. Previously Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset
Management PLC. Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts 
and council member of the Advertising Standards Authority
Name: 10. Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), Solicitor
Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 54
Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, July 2007 
Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and 
membership Remuneration Committee
Skills and Michael was formerly Company Secretary, General Counsel
experience and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall
responsibility for corporate acquisitions and divestments and
has extensive experience of both private and public market
transactions
External Currently serves on the Board of Compass Partners 
appointments International LLP 
Name: 14. Matthew Phillips, LLB
Title & Age Company Secretary, 37
Appointment Appointed Company Secretary, October 2004
Committee Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary to and 
membership Member of the Chief Executive’s Committee; Secretary to the
Audit and Remuneration Committees 
Skills and Matthew joined Imperial Tobacco’s legal department in 
experience 2000 and was closely involved in negotiations for the
acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma. Previously 
he worked for law ﬁrms Linklaters and Burges Salmon
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Company Secretary
Name: 15. Kathryn Turner
Title & Age Group Human Resources Director, 52
Appointment Appointed Group Human Resources Director in 2002
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Kathryn is responsible for all aspects of human resource 
experience management across the Group. She joined in 2002 from
Somerﬁeld PLC, where she was a member of the PLC Board.
She has also held a number of senior operational consulting 
roles in change management in the FMCG sector
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Name: 16. Gary Aldridge, MBA
Title & Age Manufacturing Director Designate, 54
Appointment 1 January 2008
Committee Chief Executive’s Committee
membership
Skills and Gary will succeed David Cresswell as Manufacturing 
experience Director on 1 January 2008. Gary was Regional Operations
Director Far East, Eastern Europe, Africa and Middle East.
Previously, he was Director of Operations, Central and Eastern
Europe. He held a number of senior manufacturing roles in 
RJ Reynolds International before joining Reemtsma in 2001
External Currently no external Director appointments
appointments
Chief Executive’s Committee Summary Directors’ Report 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 30 
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements for the year to 30 September 2007 
(Annual Review). 
Business Review 
A review of the Group’s activities and future developments, which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, including the financial 
performance during the year, key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group,  
is included in the Business Review section on pages 6 to 29. The purpose of the Business Review is to provide information to the 
members of the Company. The Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, 
performance and financial condition of the Company and the Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties 
since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Review and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Review should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Financial Results and Dividends 
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was £905 million as shown in the summary consolidated 
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: 
(In £’s million) 2007 2006 
Ordinary Shares   
Interim paid, 21.0p per share (2006: 18.5p) 141 127 
Proposed final, 48.5p per share (2006: 43.5p) 326 
Total ordinary dividends, 69.5p (2006: 62.0p) 467 
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 15 February 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the 
close of business on 18 January 2008. The associated ex-dividend date is 16 January 2008.  
Summary Financial Statements 
The Summary Financial Statements are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts and Directors’ Remuneration 
Report 2007. As such they do not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and 
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as a whole as would be provided by the full Financial Statements and Remuneration 
Report. For further information the full Annual Accounts, the Auditors’ Report on those accounts, and the Directors’ Report should  
be consulted. Those shareholders who receive only the Annual Review but would like to receive, free of charge, the Annual Report  
and Accounts for this year and/or future years should write to the Company’s Registrars or Citibank Shareholder Services, the  
www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
Auditors 
The Auditors’ report on the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either 
section 237(2) of the Companies Act 1985 (the Act) (accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records 
and returns) or section 237 (3) (failure to obtain necessary information and explanations). 
Annual General Meeting 
Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 January 2008, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this Annual Review. 
income statement set out on page 42. 
ADR Depositary, addresses for whom are shown on page 51. The Annual Report and Accounts are also available on line at 
293 
420  www.imperial-tobacco.com 31
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summarised Annual report in accordance with applicable law. Our responsibility is to 
report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Summarised Annual report with the Annual 
Financial Statements, the Directors’ Report and the Directors’ remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements  
of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder. We also read the other information 
contained in the Summarised Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies within the Summary Financial Statement. 
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility  
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Basis of opinion 
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6, “The auditors’ statement on the summary financial statement” issued  
by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom. 
Opinion 
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors’ report and the 
Directors’ remuneration report of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007 and complies with the 
applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Bristol 
31 October 2007  
Independent Auditors’ statement 
to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Summary Corporate Governance Report 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 32 
The Board of Directors (the Board) remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it sees as  
a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities. 
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions and Compliance 
Throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Report, the Group has complied with the governance rules and 
best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance  
(the Code) which was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003 with the exception of Code provision A.3.2. This provision 
specifies that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be 
independent. This non compliance, from 2 January 2007, resulted from the Board’s decision to retain Mr. A G L Alexander on the Board 
to ensure continuity at senior Board level during the Chairman’s early tenure and the resignation of Mr C R Day as a consequence of his 
overall business commitments. As planned the Board regained compliance on 1 July 2007 following the appointment of two additional 
independent Non-Executive Directors, Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson. The Code was further revised in 2006 (the 2006 
Code). As the Company is required to report under the Code it has adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early. The 
has remained a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
As Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), the Group  
is also required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including section 404. The Group has, however, 
taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth 
Brands Inc. during its first year since acquisition. 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Group’s standard of governance and seeks to maintain high 
standards of management of the affairs of Group. Accordingly both the Board and its Audit Committee have continued to keep under 
review the Group’s entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial and operational controls, as well as compliance and 
risk management. Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place across the 
whole Group. 
During the course of the year, business reviews of the Group’s operations and reviews performed in conformance with section 404 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been performed as part of the Group Compliance Function’s programme of activity. This has highlighted 
Update on Ongoing Enquiries 
Certain elements of the previously reported investigations initiated by German authorities in January 2003 are ongoing. These 
investigations concern alleged foreign trading and related violations by a number of people, including former Reemtsma employees, 
during a period prior to Reemtsma’s acquisition by  Imperial Tobacco.  
As also previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial Tobacco and a number of other companies to the UK Office of  
Fair Trading (the OFT) in October 2003 in relation to an OFT investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain. Further 
information was supplied in April 2005 but to date no substantive response to any of the information submitted has been received  
it may impose a fine.  
Further details relating to the investigations and enquiry are within the Annual Report and Accounts which is available on line at 
www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
continued 
from the OFT. The OFT’s investigation is ongoing. In the event that the OFT decides that a company has infringed UK competition law,  
a small number of controls requiring minor remediation work, which is currently being completed. 
Company was, therefore, technically in breach of Code provision B.2.1 as, since his appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier    
www.imperial-tobacco.com 33
Board and Board Committee Structure 
 
Board Governance Summary
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Shareholders
PLC Board of Directors
The Board of Directors met nine times during the year . The full Board manages overall
control of Group affairs including responsibility for:
> Commercial strategy
> Approval of financial statements
> Major acquisitions and disposals
> Authority levels for expenditure
> T reasury and risk management policies
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met
four times during the year .
Its responsibilities include:
> Monitoring internal
control
> Approving the Group’s
accounting policies
> Reviewing financial
statements
> Reviewing the external
Audit plan and Group
Compliance work plan
> Review of Auditor
independence
> Monitoring the Group’s
Public Interest Disclosure
(Whistleblowing) policy
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration
Committee met five times
during the year . Its
responsibilities include:
> Determining
remuneration levels for
the Chairman, Executive
Directors, and members
of the Chief Executive’s
Committee
> Oversight of senior
management
remuneration
> Oversight of the Group’s
employee share plans
> Approval of the Directors’
Remuneration Report
Nominations Committee
The Nominations
Committee met three times
during the year . Its
responsibilities include:
> Evaluation of skills,
knowledge and
experience of the Board 
> Formulation of
succession plans
> Development of role
specifications and
making of
recommendations with
regard to the
appointment of Directors
> Succession plans for
senior executives
Chief Executive’s Committee
The Chief Executive’s Committee met ten times during the year . This is the senior
management steering committee for the Company. Its responsibilities include:
> Implementing Group strategy
> Monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business
 
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com Summary Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 34 
Structure of the Board and Committees 
  
Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Executive Directors     
G Davis Member – – – 
R Dyrbus Member – – – 
G L Blashill Member – – – 
A J Cooper Member – – – 
D Cresswell Member – – – 
     
Non-Executive Directors      
I J G Napier Chairman  – Member Chairman 
A G L Alexander  Vice Chairman  – – Member 
K M Burnett Member – – Member 
M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member 
P H Jungels – Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member 
C F Knott Member Member Member Member 
S E Murray Member Member Member Member 
M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member 
     
Secretary     
M R Phillips Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary 
Board Structure  
The Board considers that all eight Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) remain independent for the purposes of the NYSE 
Corporate Governance rules and all seven Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chairman as required by the Code) remain 
independent for the purposes of the Code. 
However, recognising the general external focus under the Code on directors who have served in excess of nine years, the Company 
has not, since September 2006, classified Mr A G L Alexander (for the purposes of the Code) as an independent Director when 
determining the composition of the Board and its Committees. As announced previously, Mr A G L Alexander will remain on the Board 
until the Company’s 2008 Annual General Meeting. Mr A G L Alexander is not a member of any of the Board Committees other than the 
Nominations Committee.  
The Directors’ biographies, appearing on pages 28 and 29, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and the wider 
Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with a range of business and financial experience which is vital to the management  
of an expanding international company. The biographies also include details of any other major directorships. 
On 1 July 2007 Mrs A J Cooper joined the Board as Corporate Development Director and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson 
were appointed as Non-Executive Directors and will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election. In addition, 
Messrs G Davis and R Dyrbus and Ms S E Murray retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
Mr I J G Napier succeeded Mr D C Bonham as Chairman on 2 January 2007. Mr C R Day resigned, as a consequence of his overall 
business commitments, from the Board with effect from 16 February 2007 and Dr F A Rogerson resigned, for personal and private 
reasons, from the Board with effect from 27 June 2007. Mr D Cresswell has confirmed to the Board that he intends to retire on  
31 December 2007.  
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope 
which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. 
Performance Evaluation 
During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally reviewed and 
evaluated its own performance together with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors. Following these reviews  
the Board and its Committees are satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively and that, notwithstanding the continued 
changes in Board membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity. No fundamental issues or training needs that require 
addressing were identified and the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors has sufficient time, knowledge and 
commitment to contribute effectively to the Board and its Committees. Accordingly, the Board recommends that Messrs G Davis  
and R Dyrbus, together with Ms S E Murray should stand for re-election, and that Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and  
M D Williamson should stand for election, at the 2008 AGM.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 35
Remuneration Strategy 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment. For the Group to continue to compete 
successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining  
and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring that there is a clear link 
between reward and performance. The Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to 
the business environment in the countries in which it operates. To assist in communicating this strategy, senior employees were issued 
with total reward statements. 
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity and encourages 
them to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. Through a series of employee share plans the majority of employees  
of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans, with in excess of 38 per cent  
of the eligible population participating in one or more of those plans.  
Executive Remuneration Policy 
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executive’s 
Committee. The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a  
high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive. Notwithstanding the 
Company’s continued outperformance of the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 36 the executive remuneration policy continues 
to be set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive 
Directors and Chief Executive’s Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement  
of superior business performance. 
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, 
performance related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance. The main components are  
base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme (SMS), long term incentive plan (LTIP) and pension benefits.  
Key Elements of Directors’ Remuneration Package in the Financial Year to 30 September 2007 
Element Objective Award level Performance criteria
2
 Performance period 
Base salary
1
. Reward high performing 
employees reflecting market  
value of role and individual’s  
skills and experience. 
Median of FTSE 50 excluding 
companies in the Financial  
and Pharmaceutical sectors. 
 
N/A. 
 
N/A. 
 
Annual cash 
bonus. 
Incentivise delivery of  
Group objectives. 
 
Maximum percentage of  
base salary: 
Chief Executive and Finance 
Director 100%, other Executive 
Directors 75%. 
Adjusted EPS growth. 1 year. 
 
Share matching 
scheme. 
Incentivise delivery of improved 
Group adjusted EPS and align  
with interests of shareholders. 
May elect to invest some or all  
of gross bonus in shares. These 
can be matched on a 1:1 basis. 
Adjusted EPS growth. 
 
3 years. 
 
Long term 
incentive plan. 
Incentivise long term delivery  
of TSR and EPS (adjusted for 
certain items) and align with 
interests of shareholders. 
Percentage of base salary: 
Chief Executive 200%, Finance 
Director 150%, other Executive 
Directors 100%. 
3 elements –  
50% adjusted EPS 
growth 
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 
25% TSR vs. 
comparator group
3
.  
3 years. 
 
1
 Only element pensionable. 
2
 The performance criteria have been chosen to reflect the Group’s Key Performance Indicators and to align remuneration with the interests of shareholders. The Auditors 
perform agreed upon procedures on the EPS calculations and Auditors Limited perform the TSR calculations prior to review by the Audit Committee. 
3
 The comparator group comprises; Altria Group Inc, British American Tobacco plc, Carlsberg A/S, Diageo PLC, Heineken N.V., Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, Interbrew S.A., 
Japan Tobacco Inc., Pernod Riccard S.A., Reynolds American Inc, SAB Miller PLC and Scottish & Newcastle PLC. Following Japan Tobacco’s acquisition of Gallaher Group  
en N.V. respectively. 
 
PLC and the Company’s proposed acquisition of Altadis, they have been replaced in the comparator group by Japan Tobacco Inc. and Heinek Summary Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 36 
Evidence of the Group’s sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below. 
Total return indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson 
Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect 
that. The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Company’s established policy that Executive Directors have 
service agreements which are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of  
a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. 
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors’ service agreements, save as 
set out in the table below. The Executive Directors’ service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are  
at the Company’s sole discretion. The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited respects referred to 
above, the circumstances of the termination and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every 
case. The Group’s policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration 
from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.  
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, 
redundancy or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria. If, 
however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individual’s full award lapses. 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control 
Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period. 
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period. 
Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
Mr D Cresswell 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
Mrs A J Cooper 
1
 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice. No provisions. 
1
 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
 
0
100
200
300
28 Sep 07 29 Sep 06 30 Sep 05 30 Sep 04 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 02
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE 100  
www.imperial-tobacco.com 37
Emoluments by Individual Director (Audited) 
 
Base 
salary 
£’000 
Fees  
£’000 
Supervisory 
Board fees 
£’000 
Bonus
£’000 
Pension 
Salary 
Supplement
1 
£’000 
Benefits in 
kind
 £’000 
Sub total 
£’000 
LTIP  
£’000 
SMS inc 
CSMS  
£’000 
Total 
2007  
£’000 
Total
2006 
£’000 
Base Salary/ 
Fees from 
1/10/2007
£’000 
Executive Directors             
Mr G Davis,  
Chief Executive 
835 – – 802 – 22 1,659 1,055 780 3,494 2,700 939 
Mr R Dyrbus,  
Finance Director 
530 – – 509 186 22 1,247 671 496 2,414 1,797 575 
Mr G L Blashill, 
Sales and Marketing Director 
390 – – 281 – 16 687 182 237 1,106 876 420 
Mrs A J Cooper
3
, 
Corporate Development 
Director 
96 – – 69 6 4 175 – 6 181 – 425 
Mr D Cresswell, 
Manufacturing Director 
380 – – 274 – 17 671 479 285 1,435 945 405 
Dr F A Rogerson , 
Corporate Affairs Director 
284 – – 205 47 12 548 479 288 1,315 994 – 
 2,515 – – 2,140 239 93 4,987 2,866 2,092 9,945 7,312 2,764 
Non-Executive Directors             
Mr I J G Napier,  
Chairman 
– 245 – – – – 245 – – 245 85 360 
Mr A G L Alexander, 
Vice Chairman 
– 75 – – – 3 78 – – 78 78 85 
Mr D C Bonham – 76 – – – – 76 – – 76 302 – 
Dr K M Burnett – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 21 60 
Mr C R Day – 23 – – – – 23 – – 23 57 – 
Mr S P Duffy – – – – – – – – – – 20 – 
Mr M H C Herlihy – 13 – – – – 13 – – 13 – 60 
Mr S Huismans – – – – – – – – – – 24 – 
Dr P H Jungels – 65 – – – – 65 – – 65 50 85
Mr C F Knott – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 21 60 
Ms S E Murray – 50 – – – – 50 – – 50 50 60 
Mr D W Thursfield – – – – – – – – – – 4 – 
Mr M D Williamson – 13 – – – – 13 – – 13 – 70
 – 660 – – – 3 663 – – 663 712 840 
Former Directors             
Mr B C Davidson
10
 – – – – – – – – – –  1,392 – 
Mr S Huismans – – 22 – – – 22 – – 22 15 – 
Mr S T Painter
11
 – 103 22 – – – 125 – – 125 128 – 
Dr F A Rogerson 96 – – 68 16 4 184 – 6 190 – – 
 96 103 44 68 16 4 331 – 6 337 1,535 – 
 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance. 
 LTIP, SMS and CSMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year on annual vesting, including the vesting of the Centenary Share 
Matching Scheme. 
 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008,  
when his employement will terminate. 
 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of £10,000. 
 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007. 
 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007. 
 Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006. However, Mr S Huismans continues to receive fees in connection with his appointments  
to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group. 
 Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005. 
10
 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005 and received payment in lieu of notice which was subject  
to his duty to mitigate.  
11
 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the 
Reemtsma Group. 
12
 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
2 2 
4
6
7
8
3
8
9
3
8
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9  Summary Corporate Governance Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 38 
Directors’ Interests in Shares (Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests) (Audited) 
 Ordinary Shares Sharesave Options Contingent Rights to Ordinary 
Shares 
(LTIP and SMS Shares) 
Total Interests 
 /10/2006 1
1
 30/9/2007
2
 1/10/2006
1
30/9/2007
2
1/10/2006
1
30/9/2007
2
 1/10/2006
1
30/9/2007
2
Executive Directors         
Mr G Davis 330,289 367,726 1,979 1,344 291,791 317,394 624,059 686,464 
Mr R Dyrbus 213,944 237,190 776 621 170,047 171,890 384,767 409,701 
Mr G L Blashill 90,885 91,584 807 807 71,646 80,854 163,338 173,245 
Mrs A J Cooper
3
 57,809 57,981 670 670 65,550 65,256 124,029 123,907 
Mr D Cresswell 89,894 102,120 2,008 548 104,650 99,173 196,552 201,841 
Dr F A Rogerson
4
 88,831 106,461 2,008 2,556 105,080 99,467 195,919 208,484 
Non-Executive Directors         
Mr I J G Napier 4,305 5,600 – – – – 4,305 5,600 
Mr A G L Alexander 132,710 132,710 – – – – 132,710 132,710 
Mr D C Bonham
5
 124,600 124,600 – – – – 124,600 124,600 
Dr K M Burnett 134 405 – – – – 134 405 
Mr C R Day
6
 1,016 1,016 – – – – 1,016 1,016 
Mr M H C Herlihy
3
 – 343 – – – – – 343 
Dr P H Jungels 2,684 2,993 – – – – 2,684 2,993 
Mr C F Knott 134 405 – – – – 134 405 
Ms S E Murray 722 993 – – – – 722 993 
Mr M D Williamson
3
 – 81 – – – – – 81 
1
 Or date of appointment if later.  
2
 Or date of resignation if earlier. 
3
 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007. 
4
 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008,  
when his employement will terminate. 
5
 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007. 
6
 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007. 
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2007. 
Auditor Independence Policy 
The Group’s Auditor Independence Policy provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide  
such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired. The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including  
the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform, and establishes guidelines 
for the recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors. This policy is published on the Group’s website, 
www.imperial-tobacco.com.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 39
Internal Control  
The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code  
from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Group Compliance Function and external 
Auditors. However, given the size and complexity of the Group’s operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide reasonable  
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have  
been established to provide internal control. It confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group’s 
significant risks operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report. 
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions  
as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance, and to comply with any relevant US governance and control provisions. The provisions of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act require US listed companies to adopt a generally accepted framework of control, advocating the “Internal Control-
Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as appropriate.  
The Group considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfies 
the requirements of both the Turnbull guidance and COSO.  
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: 
Risk Assessment: 
 The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part of its medium term planning process. These objectives are incorporated 
as part of the annual planning cycle; 
 A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium term planning and annual 
and monthly forecasting reporting cycles; 
 All areas of the business undertook risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks were 
reviewed at all levels across the Group. This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from 
each of the business operations identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the controls embedded in the business 
processes to mitigate such risks. This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there 
continues to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the  
risk exposure so identified; 
 The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a 
regular basis. The Group Compliance Function formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the outcome of its ongoing 
activities, including its programme of reviews relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and any more general business reviews. These 
reports have supported the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within the business 
operations. In this way, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Group’s exposure to major business risks is minimised such  
that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group;  
 Notwithstanding that the Group has taken advantage of an exemption from implementing the requirements of section 404 of  
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act within Commonwealth Brands in the first year after acquisition, the Group is integrating Commonwealth 
Brands within its overall control framework; and  
 A summary of the principal risks facing the business is included on page 12.   Summary Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 40 
Control Environment and Control Activities: 
 The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having  
their own management and control structures which satisfy the Group’s controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities; 
 The Board continually reviews the Group’s organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with appropriate 
delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles. Such 
delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are  
taken at an appropriate level; 
 The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance 
nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision; 
 The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are expected  
to comply with. These cover key issues such as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, segregation of duties,  
ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and health, safety  
and environmental issues. This framework of policies and procedures, which has been developed and issued, with consistent 
communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite 
control guidance and remains pertinent to the Group’s business activities; 
 A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees  
or others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether 
financial or non-financial (commonly referred to as “Whistleblowing” arrangements) operates throughout the Group; 
 The Group has an established and consistent methodology for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations and 
identifying significant risk issues associated therewith. Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with each significant 
risk that has been identified, including not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual 
sourcing of supplies;  
 There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including 
acquisitions;  
 The Group’s treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Group’s financing arrangements and  
to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through treasury instruments; and 
 The Board reviews annually the Group’s Treasury and Tax functions and Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental matters. 
Information and communication: 
 Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed for 
robustness and realism; and 
 A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, ensured that 
major variances against plan were promptly and thoroughly investigated. These reviews were conducted at a detailed level within 
each function and at a high level by the Chief Executive’s Committee. 
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range of key 
performance indicators. These indicators are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable. 
Monitoring: 
 A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group. 
These included independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant controls. 
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems 
of internal control, in accordance with the Group’s policies and covering all business activities (both financial and non-financial), have 
been maintained within their area of responsibility; 
 The Group Compliance Function’s responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control 
systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group; 
 Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls  
as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function; and 
 As a consequence of its US listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Testing of  
the 2007 year end controls is still ongoing at the date of .  
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 
30 September 2007, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and 
Turnbull guidance. Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above,  
and review of the Group’s financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal control. 
  
 approval of the Annual Report  
www.imperial-tobacco.com 41
Going Concern 
The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable 
future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Pension Fund 
The Group’s main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting of  
five nominees from the Company; one member of which is chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners. The 
Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent 
fund managers. The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the fund’s Rules and for no other purpose. 
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements 
As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchange’s (NYSE) listing standards 
relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but is exempt from others. 
There is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US 
companies under the NYSE listing standards. At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the 
relevant NYSE listing standards. 
The Board develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group. In  
addition, the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent Group 
Compliance Function. 
Communication with Shareholders 
Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding  
and dialogue with investment audiences. All material documents (including the Annual Report and Form 20-F) together with 
announcements, investor presentations and share price information are published on the Imperial Tobacco website,  
www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
Currently all shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting 
proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including the ability to abstain if desired. The amendments to the 
Company’s Articles of Association to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will allow the Company to benefit from the wider 
provisions under the Companies Act 2006 relating to communicating electronically with shareholders and will allow the Company  
to use its website to communicate with shareholders to a greater extent than currently possible. 
In addition, at the AGM in 2007 individual shareholders received presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the Group’s 
performance and current business activities and were given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees and other Directors.  
Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject, with all resolutions put to a poll. The Company indicates the level of proxy 
votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against and withheld for 
each such resolution. After the conclusion of the meeting the final results are published through a regulatory information service and  
on the Company’s website.  Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) Notes 2007 2006
Revenue 1 12,344 11,676 
Duty and similar items 1 (9,064) (8,514)
Other cost of sales (990) (1,013)
Cost of sales (10,054) (9,527)
Gross profit 2,290 2,149 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (659) (627)
Administrative expenses (213) (211)
Profit from operations 1 1,418 1,311 
Adjusted profit from operations 1,475 1,356 
Amortisation of acquired trademarks (23) –
Restructuring costs 2 – (45)
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments (34) –
Investment income 3 318 283 
Finance costs 3 (499) (426)
Net finance costs 3 (181) (143)
Adjusted net finance costs (237) (188)
Retirement benefits net financing income 54 46 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 2 (1)
Profit before taxation 1,237 1,168 
Taxation 4 (325) (310)
Profit for the year 912 858 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 905 851 
Minority interests 7 7 
Earnings per ordinary share – Basic 6 134.3 p 122.2 p
– Diluted 6 133.7 p 121.6 p
All activities derive from continuing operations. 
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Summary Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 43
Summary Financial Statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 30 September 2007
September September
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 4,950 3,910 
Property, plant and equipment 640 580 
Investments in associates 4 5 
Retirement benefit assets 602 397 
Trade and other receivables 7 19
Deferred tax assets 52 71 
6,255 4,982 
Current assets
Inventories 998 789 
Trade and other receivables 1,254 1,067 
Current tax assets 50 13 
Cash and cash equivalents 380 263 
Derivative financial instruments 71 29 
2,753 2,161 
Total assets 9,008 7,143 
Current liabilities
Borrowings (1,067) (1,122)
Derivative financial instruments (219) (119)
Trade and other payables (1,593) (1,433)
Current tax liabilities (267) (272)
Provisions (26) (56)
(3,172) (3,002)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (4,053) (2,930)
Trade and other payables (5) (5)
Deferred tax liabilities (208) (135)
Retirement benefit liabilities (397) (434)
Provisions (32) (39)
(4,695) (3,543)
Total liabilities (7,867) (6,545)
Net assets 1,141 598 
Equity
Share capital 73 73
Share premium account 964 964
Retained earnings 58 (423)
Exchange translation reserve 23 (35)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,118 579 
Minority interests 23 19 
Total equity 1,141 598  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Exchange movements 58 (54)
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 202 100 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits (59) (24)
Deferred tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity – 7 
Current tax on other items taken directly to or transferred from equity 5 –
Net income recognised directly in equity 206 29 
Profit for the year 912 858 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 1,111 880 
Minority interests 7 7 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,118 887 
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
(In £s million) Notes 2007 2006
Cash flows from operating activities 8 999 1,155 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 15 13 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (128) (75)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5 15 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (5) (7)
Purchase of intangible assets – trademarks (5) (368)
Purchase of businesses – net of cash acquired 7 (966) (68)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,084) (490)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (227) (199)
Purchase of treasury shares (105) (556)
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 7 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (55) (55)
Increase in borrowings 2,324 1,356 
Repayment of borrowings (1,317) (795)
Dividends paid to minority interests (4) (7)
Dividends paid to shareholders (434) (406)
Net cash generated by/(used in) financing activities 189 (655)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 104 10 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 263 257 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 13 (4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 380 263 
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Summary Financial Statements www.imperial-tobacco.com 45
Summary Financial Statements
1. Segmental information
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. The management
structure is based on geographical regions. These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe, US and Rest of the
World have been used as the primary reporting segments. The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products 
is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary segment disclosure 
has been made. Central costs are allocated to segments on the basis of net revenue.
With effect from 1 October 2006, we have reclassiﬁed the results of our Austrian business from ‘Germany’ to ‘Rest of the World’ to reﬂect 
the way in which our operations are managed within the Group. The results for 2006 have been restated accordingly. Similarly the 2006
results of our US business have been reclassiﬁed from ‘Rest of the World’ to ‘US’ as the US segment has been introduced following 
the acquisition of Commonwealth Brands.
Geographical consolidated income statement by destination of sales
2007 Duty and Profit from
(In £s million) Revenue similar items Net revenue operations
UK 4,842 3,966 876 555
Germany 2,645 2,121 524 232
Rest of Western Europe 1,746 1,111 635 319
US 266 149 117 35
Rest of the World 2,845 1,717 1,128 277
12,344 9,064 3,280 1,418 
2006 Duty and Profit from
(In £s million) Revenue similar items Net revenue operations
UK 4,762 3,927 835 496
Germany 2,698 2,123 575 239
Rest of Western Europe 1,647 1,010 637 321
US 14 – 14 4
Rest of the World 2,555 1,454 1,101 251
11,676 8,514 3,162 1,311
Geographical reconciliation from proﬁt from operations to adjusted proﬁt from operations by destination of sales
Fair value
changes on
derivative Adjusted
2007 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from
(In £s million) operations of trademarks* costs instruments operations*
UK 555 – – 9 564
Germany 232 – – 6 238
Rest of Western Europe 319 – – 7 326
US 35 17 – – 52
Rest of the World 277 6 – 12 295
1,418 23 – 34 1,475
Fair value
changes on
derivative Adjusted
2006 Profit from Amortisation Restructuring financial profit from
(In £s million) operations of trademarks* costs instruments operations*
UK 496 n/a 10 – 506
Germany 239 n/a 31 – 270
Rest of Western Europe 321 n/a 3 – 324
US 4 n/a – – 4
Rest of the World 251 n/a 1 – 252
1,311 n/a 45 – 1,356
* Amortisation of trademarks relates principally to Commonwealth Brands’ trademarks acquired in 2007 and trademarks acquired in Australia and New Zealand in 1999. 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations has not been restated for 2006 as the trademark amortisation effect was not signiﬁcant in that year.
Notes to the summary ﬁnancial statements  46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the summary ﬁnancial statements continued
Summary Financial Statements
2. Restructuring costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Employment related (mainly termination) – 23
Fixed asset write offs and impairment – 17 
Other operating charges – 5
– 45
There were no restructuring costs in the year ended 30 September 2007.
In 2006 restructuring costs were primarily in respect of the closure of our Liverpool and Lahr factories.
3. Net ﬁnance costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Interest on bank deposits (14) (13)
Expected return on retirement benefit assets (203) (188)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments (101) (82)
Investment income (318) (283)
Interest on bank and other loans 251 201
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 149 142
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 99 83
Finance costs 499 426
Net finance costs 181 143
Reconciliation from net ﬁnance costs to adjusted net ﬁnance costs
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported net finance costs 181 143
Expected return on retirement benefit assets 203 188
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities (149) (142)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 101 82
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments (99) (83)
Adjusted net finance costs 237 188
4. Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 30% (2006: 30%) 120 148
Overseas taxation 172 164
Total current tax 292 312
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 (2)
Total tax charge 325 310
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported proﬁt before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure 
of earnings disclosed in note 6.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported taxation 325 310 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired trademarks (10) – 
Tax on restructuring costs – 16 
Tax on retirement benefits net financing income (15) (16)
Tax on fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 10 – 
Adjusted tax charge 310 310  www.imperial-tobacco.com 47
Summary Financial Statements
5. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2006 of 43.5p per share (2005: 39.5p) 293 279
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 21.0p per share (2006: 18.5p) 141 127
434 406
A ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 48.5 pence per share has been proposed. This amounts to £326 million based 
on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2007. At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved the ﬁnal
dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability. 
6. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is based on the proﬁt for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company and the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares
purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account 
the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised. 
No instruments have been excluded from the calculation on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Earnings: basic and diluted 905 851
(In millions of shares)
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 673.8 696.3
Potentially dilutive share options 2.9 3.3
Shares for diluted earnings per share 676.7 699.6
(In pence)
Basic earnings per share 134.3 122.2
Diluted earnings per share 133.7 121.6
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share 
2007 2006
(In £s million unless otherwise indicated) EPS Earnings EPS Earnings
Reported basic 134.3 p 905 122.2 p 851
Amortisation of acquired trademarks 4.9 p 33 n/a n/a 
Restructuring costs – p – 4.2 p 29 
Retirement benefits net financing income (5.8)p (39) (4.3)p (30)
Fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 3.3 p 22 0.1 p 1
Adjusted 136.7 p 921 122.2 p 851 48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the summary ﬁnancial statements continued
Summary Financial Statements
7. Acquisitions
2007
On 2 April 2007, the Group acquired from Houchens Industries Inc 100% of the share capital of CBHC Inc, which trades 
as Commonwealth Brands and manufactures and sells quality discount cigarettes across the United States. The acquired business
contributed revenue of £252 million and proﬁt from operations of £35 million after charging trademark amortisation of £17 million 
in the period from 2 April 2007 to 30 September 2007. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2006, Group revenue would have
been £12,561 million and Group proﬁt from operations for the year would have amounted to £1,446 million, these amounts having been
estimated by including Commonwealth Brands’ results for the six months prior to acquisition adjusted to reﬂect the Group’s accounting
policies and changes in depreciation and amortisation due to fair value adjustments. 
During the year the Group also acquired interests in a number of small businesses including in January 2007 a controlling interest 
in Tremaco, a tobacco and tobacco-related products distribution business based in Estonia. The aggregate consideration for these
acquisitions amounted to £1 million. Full IFRS disclosures have not been provided for these small acquisitions as they are not considered
to be signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
Details of Commonwealth Brands’ net assets acquired are as follows:
Fair value Fair value
(In £s million) Book value adjustments under IFRS
Trademarks 163 507 670 
Property, plant and equipment 14 (4) 10 
Inventories 37 – 37 
Trade and other receivables 6 – 6 
Unrestricted cash 29 – 29 
Restricted cash 123 – 123
Trade and other payables (177) (4) (181)
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands (194) – (194)
Borrowings (279) – (279)
Net assets acquired (278) 499 221 
Goodwill 305
Total consideration 526
The fair value adjustment in respect of trademarks relates to Commonwealth Brands’ cigarette brands, principally USA Gold and Sonoma,
which have been independently valued using the income method. The trademarks are being amortised over their estimated useful lives 
of 20 years. Goodwill represents a strategic premium to immediately establish critical mass in the US market and acquire assembled
sales, manufacturing and distribution workforces.
Consideration for Commonwealth Brands satisﬁed by:
(In £s million)
Cash 516
Direct costs related to the acquisition 10
Total consideration 526
The purchase price for Commonwealth Brands on a debt free basis is as follows:
(In £s million)
Total consideration 526
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands 194
Borrowings at acquisition 279
Unrestricted cash (29)
Total purchase price 970 www.imperial-tobacco.com 49
Summary Financial Statements
7. Acquisitions continued
2007 continued
Cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions were as follows: 
(In £s million)
Commonwealth Brands
Total consideration 526
Dividend paid to Houchens at acquisition 194
Borrowings repaid at acquisition 279
Unrestricted cash acquired (29)
970 
Other businesses acquired 1
Total cash flows arising due to acquisitions 971
Direct costs related to Commonwealth Brands acquisition not paid at the balance sheet date (5)
Acquisition cash flows reflected in investing activities in consolidated cash flow statement 966
2006
During 2006 the Group acquired interests in a number of small businesses, including in February 2006 a 100% interest in Gunnar
Stenberg AS, a tobacco and tobacco-related products sales and distribution company based in Norway. 
The fair and book value of the net assets acquired were £2 million, giving rise to goodwill of £11 million.
Full IFRS disclosures have not been presented as these acquisitions are not considered signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
The acquisition of the worldwide Davidoff cigarette trademark announced in August 2006 has, in accordance with IFRS 3, not been
treated as a business combination as the substance of the transaction is the purchase of an intangible asset. 
In December 2005 the Group made the ﬁnal payment of deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of Tobaccor SA.
8. Cash ﬂows from operating activities
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Profit for the year 912 858 
Adjustments for:
Taxation 325 310 
Finance costs 499 426 
Investment income (318) (283)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 115 120 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) –
Net retirement benefits 4 5 
Share-based payments 15 16 
Movement in provisions (37) (11)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,513 1,441 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (141) 59 
Increase in trade and other receivables (149) (99)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 96 (10)
Movement in working capital (194) (50)
Taxation paid (320) (236)
Net cash flows from operating activities 999 1,155  50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Notes to the summary ﬁnancial statements continued
Summary Financial Statements
9. Analysis of net debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and derivative ﬁnancial instruments in the year were as follows:
Derivative
Cash and cash Current Non-current financial
(In £s million) equivalents borrowings borrowings instruments Total
As at 1 October 2006 263 (1,122) (2,930) (90) (3,879)
Exchange movements 13 17 (31) – (1)
Cash flow 104 23 (1,030) – (903)
Accretion of interest – 15 (62) – (47)
Change in fair values – – – (58) (58)
As at 30 September 2007 380 (1,067) (4,053) (148) (4,888)
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes the fair value of interest rate derivative
ﬁnancial instruments and interest accruals.
(In £s million) 2007 2006
Reported net debt (4,888) (3,879)
Accrued interest 88 41 
Fair value of interest rate derivatives 15 16 
Adjusted net debt (4,785) (3,822)
10. Purchase of treasury shares
During the year the Group continued its share buyback programme purchasing 5,713,000 ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
for a total cost of £105 million including expenses. The total number of shares held in treasury is 51,717,000 representing 7.1% 
of the issued share capital. The total cost, including expenses, of shares held in treasury is £862 million. The shares purchased to date
have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve and represent a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders
of the Company. The share buyback programme was suspended on 8 February 2007 following the announcement of the agreement 
to acquire Commonwealth Brands. www.imperial-tobacco.com 51
Supplementary Information
Shareholder information
Registered ofﬁce
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
+44 (0)117 963 6636
Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0870 241 3932
+44 (0)121 415 7009
(0870 600 3950 text phone for shareholders with hearing difﬁculties)
ADR Depositary
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence, RI 02940-3077
USA
Toll-free number in the US:1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237)
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
+44 (0)20 7678 8000
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
20 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QW
+44 (0)20 7425 8000
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
31 Great George Street
Bristol BS1 5QD
Lawyers
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Allen & Overy
One Bishop Square
London E1 6AO
Financial advisers
CitiGroup
CitiGroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB 52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Shareholder information continued
Supplementary Information
Financial Calendar and Dividends
Interim results are expected to be announced in May 2008 and the full year’s results in November 2008.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Tuesday, 29 January 2008 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2007 ﬁnal dividend, if approved, will be on 15 February 2008 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2008. The associated ex dividend date is 16 January 2008.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form
obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown.
Share Dealing Service
A low cost, execution-only, postal dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares has been set 
up by Hoare Govett Limited. Commission is 1 per cent with a minimum charge of £15. For details please contact Hoare Govett Limited
at the address shown. This service is restricted to UK residents only and transactions are limited to €15,000 (approximately £10,000).
Hoare Govett Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Individual Savings Account (ISA)
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA), dedicated 
to Imperial Tobacco Group shares operated by Lloyds TSB Bank plc. Details of the ISA can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 242 4244.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy
further shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex
BN99 6DA, tel: 0870 241 3018.
American Depositary Receipt Facility
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares
(ADSs) using the symbol ITY. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. The ADS facility is administered 
by Citibank N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
International Direct Investment Program
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs have been included in the Citibank International Direct Investment Program which provides registered
holders and interested investors with a convenient way to purchase and sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs.
To obtain further information about the International Direct Investment Program, please call Citibank N.A., the administrator and sponsor
at 1-800-808-8010 (toll-free in the USA).
Website
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Equiniti also offer a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices 
and dividend details and ﬁnd practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. www.imperial-tobacco.com 53
Principal Subsidiaries 
Summary Financial Statements
The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales
Name Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products
Sinclair Collis Limited Cigarette vending in the UK
Incorporated overseas
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity
Commonwealth Brands Inc., United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the United States of America
Dunkerquoise des Blends S.A., France Tobacco processing in France
Ets. L. Lacroix Fils N.V., Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Belgium
Gunnar Stenberg AS, Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco (Asia) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco CR s.r.o., Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco France S.A.S., France Marketing of tobacco products in France
Imperial Tobacco Hellas S.A., Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg Dohänyforgalmazö Kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products
in New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Overseas B.V., the Netherlands Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A.S., Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis ve Pazarlama A.S., Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine
John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic 
of Ireland
John Player S.A., Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Germany and export of tobacco products
Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China
OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia
Tobaccor S.A.S., France Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Netherlands 54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Principal Subsidiaries continued
Summary Financial Statements
All of the wholly owned subsidiaries were held throughout the year except for Commonwealth Brands Inc which was acquired 
on 2 April 2007 (note 24) and Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited which was incorporated on 6 March 2007.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below. All are unlisted unless 
otherwise indicated.
Incorporated overseas
Percentage
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned
1
Imperial Tobacco Polska S.A., Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 99.9
products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 98.7
products in Kyrgyzstan
Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 43.0
products in Sweden
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs S.A.
2
, Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 74.1
products in the Ivory Coast
Tobac
v
na Ljubljana d.o.o., Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products 76.5
in Slovenia
Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco  99.1
products in Macedonia
1
The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobac
v
na Ljubljana d.o.o. 
in which the Group holds a 99% interest.
2
Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership:
Name and country Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA) GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany
Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, 
Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
The consolidated Group ﬁnancial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception 
of Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held 
by the Company. A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company. Index
www.imperial-tobacco.com 55
Supplementary Information
A
Acquisitions 15, 48
Adjusted Measures 56
Africa 23
Altadis 6, 7, 13
American Depositary
Receipts/Shares 52
Annual General Meeting 52
Asia 22
Audit Committee 33
Australia 22
B
Balance Sheet 43
Belgium 19
Board Committees 33
Board of Directors 28
Burkina Faso 23
Business Overview 2
C
Cash Flow from Operating Activities 49
Cash Flow Statement 44
Cash Management 11
Caucasus 22
Chairman’s Statement 4
Chief Executive’s Committee 29, 33
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 6
China 22
Community Investment 26
Contents IFC
Corporate Governance Report,
Summary 32
Corporate Responsibility 25
Cost Optimisation 11
Czech Republic 22
D
Debt 14, 50
Directors 
Biographies 28
Interests in Shares 38
Remuneration 35
Report, Summary 30
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 52
Dividends 14, 47
Duty Free 23
E
Earnings Per Share 14, 47
Estonia 22
Excise Duty 10
F
Financial Calendar 52
Financial Highlights IFC
Financial Review 14
Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control 9
France 19
G
Germany 18
Glossary 56
Greece 19
Group Performance 2
H
Health, Safety and Environment 26
Hungary 22
I
Income Statement 42
Ireland 19
Italy 19
Ivory Coast 22
K
Key Performance Indicators 13
L
Laos 22
Litigation 10, 12
M
Madagascar 23
Manufacturing 23
Master Settlement Agreement 6, 20
Middle East 23
N
Net Debt 50
Net Finance Costs 14, 46
Netherlands 19
New Zealand 22
Nominations Committee 33
Norway 22
Notes to the Summary
Financial Statements 45
O
Operating Environment 9
Operating Review 16
Outlook 7, 17, 23
P
Pension Fund 41
Pictorial Health Warnings 10
Principal Subsidiaries 53
Productivity 23
Poland 22
Portugal 19
R
Regional Performance 15
Registrars 51
Regulation 6, 9, 12
Remuneration Committee 33
Rest of the World 22
Rest of Western Europe 19
Restructuring Costs 46
Risk Assessment 39
Risks and Uncertainties 12
Russia 22
S
Sales Development 11
Saudi Arabia 22
Segmental Information 45
Senegal 23
Share Buybacks 50
Shareholder Information 51
Slovakia 22
Slovenia 22
Smoking in Public Places 9
Spain 19
Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense 44
Strategy 11
Summary Financial Statements 42
T
Taiwan 22
Taxation 14, 46
Total Shareholder Return Index 5
Travel Retail 19
Turkey 22
U
Ukraine 22
UAE 23
United Kingdom 17
United States 20
V
Vietnam 22
W
World Tobacco Market 8 56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Adjusted earnings per share 
Adjusted proﬁt after tax attributable to the
equity holders of the Company divided by
the weighted average number of shares in
issue during the period excluding shares
held to satisfy employee share schemes and
shares purchased by the Company and held
as Treasury shares.
Adjusted measures
Management believes that reporting
adjusted measures provides a better
comparison of business performance and
reﬂects the way in which the business is
controlled. Accordingly, adjusted measures
of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs,
proﬁt before tax, taxation and earnings 
per share exclude, where applicable,
amortisation of acquired trademarks,
restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net
ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses
on derivative ﬁnancial instruments in respect
of commercially effective hedges and related
taxation effects. The term adjusted is not a
deﬁned term under International Financial
Reporting Standards and may not 
be comparable with similarly titled 
measures reported by other companies.
Adjusted operating margin
The adjusted proﬁt from operations divided
by net revenue.
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
Proﬁt from operations adjusted for
amortisation of acquired trademarks,
restructuring costs and fair value gains 
and losses on derivative ﬁnancial
instruments used to commercially hedge
investments in foreign operations.
Amortisation
A systematic charge to the income
statement to write off the value of intangible
assets with ﬁnite lives over their useful lives.
Cash conversion rate
Cash conversion is calculated as cash ﬂow
from operations before tax payments less
net capital expenditure relating to property,
plant and equipment and software as a
percentage of adjusted proﬁt from
operations.
Earnings per share – basic
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the
Company divided by the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the period
excluding shares held to satisfy employee
share schemes and shares purchased by
the Company and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share – diluted
As for Basic earnings per share except 
that the weighted average number of 
shares includes the weighted average
number of shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential
ordinary shares arising from rights under 
the employee share schemes.
Effective tax rate
The tax charge in the income statement 
as a percentage of proﬁt before taxation.
Enterprise value (EV)
Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Ex dividend date
The date from which shares are traded
without the right to the most recently
declared dividend payment.
Framework Convention on Tobacco
Control
The World Health Organisation’s Framework
Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) is
the ﬁrst global tobacco treaty that seeks to
regulate tobacco products.
Fine cut tobacco
Loose tobacco which is used with rolling
papers or ﬁlter tubes (including make your
own and roll your own).
FMC
Factory-made cigarettes.
ISO
The International Organisation for
Standardisation, widely known as ISO, 
is an international standard-setting body
comprised of representatives from various
national standards organisations. It
promulgates world wide industrial 
and commercial standards.
Market capitalisation
The market price of a share multiplied by 
the number of shares in issue.
Market share
Market share represents our best estimate
of the volumes of our brands sold as a
percentage of total market volumes during
the reporting period. We use latest monthly
data only where the share or the average
would be misleading – for example if market
entry or a signiﬁcant product launch has
taken place part way through the reporting
period. All market shares are Imperial
Tobacco best estimates based on the 
most appropriate independent market
volume data available.
MYO
Make your own: tobacco which is made 
into a cigarette using a tube machine and
ﬁlter tubes.
Net Revenue
Net revenue comprises revenue less 
duty and similar items. Revenue is as
described under Accounting Policies. 
Duty and similar items includes tobacco
duty and other governmental levies which
have characteristics similar to duty, such 
as those due in the United States under 
the Master Settlement Agreement and 
Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act.
OTP
Other tobacco products – ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff and snus.
Private label
An exclusive retailer or distributor brand
usually in the low-price segment.
Productivity
Productivity is measured as factory output
divided by paid hours.
RYO
Roll your own: tobacco which is used with
rolling papers to hand make cigarettes.
Singles Make Your Own
Pre-rolled cartridges of tobacco that are
inserted into separately sold cigarette 
paper tubes with ﬁlters using a special
device resembling a pen.
Snus
Snus is a moist oral tobacco product. It 
is manufactured and consumed primarily 
in Sweden and Norway
Total shareholder return
The total investment gain to shareholders,
resulting from the movement in the share
price and assuming dividends are
immediately reinvested in shares.
Travel Retail
Products made available in a market
principally for travelling consumers.
Volumes
Our volume KPI represents the number 
of units sold in the period
Weighted average cost of capital
The weighted average of the costs of
various types of capital that ﬁnance a
company or a project. Capital would
generally include a mix of debt and equity.
Glossary
Supplementary Information 3. Shareholder
services
> Register online
> Shareview
> Investor glossary
> Common questions
4. Tell us what
you think
> Your feedback
> Investor contacts
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Southville
Bristol BS99 7UJ
Tel: +44 (0)117 963 6636
Email: info@uk.imptob.com
2. View archive
information
> Investor library
> Company reports
> Company presentations
> Results and trading updates
1. Access the latest
shareholder
information
> Updates via email
> Latest share price
> Financial calendar
> RSS news feeds
> Corporate governance
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed in England by Butler and Tanner.
For more information visit:
www.imperial-tobacco.com The paper in this report is made from 
100% post-consumer recycled waste
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
