 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
About Us
Imperial Tobacco is a leading
international tobacco company
which manufactures, markets,
distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of 
cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, 
rolling papers and tubes. 
We continue to build on our 
long track record of creating
sustainable shareholder value.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Company and the 
Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from
those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
See overleaf for an overview of our business today
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper. Park is a CarbonNeutral®
company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001:2004.
100% of the electricity used is generated from renewable sources, 100% of the inks
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, an FSC approved paper 
which ensures that all virgin pulp is sourced from well-managed sustainable forests.
Splendorgel uses an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and is totally recyclable.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Information key
Cross reference within report
for more information
p35 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
About Us
Imperial Tobacco is a leading
international tobacco company
which manufactures, markets,
distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of 
cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, 
rolling papers and tubes. 
We continue to build on our 
long track record of creating
sustainable shareholder value.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Company and the 
Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from
those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
See overleaf for an overview of our business today
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper. Park is a CarbonNeutral®
company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001:2004.
100% of the electricity used is generated from renewable sources, 100% of the inks
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, an FSC approved paper 
which ensures that all virgin pulp is sourced from well-managed sustainable forests.
Splendorgel uses an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and is totally recyclable.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Information key
Cross reference within report
for more information
p35 Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
Performance highlights
United
Kingdom
> Our leading cigarette market share 
is at 45.9 per cent 
> We have the UK’s two best-selling
cigarette brands in Lambert & Butler
and Richmond
> We are the clear market leader in fine 
cut tobacco and rolling papers 
Net revenue
£584m
Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
£869m
Germany
> Our cigarette market share grew 
to 27.4 per cent
> JPS is now Germany’s second 
best-selling cigarette brand with
7.8 per cent share 
> Our market share in Other Tobacco
Products increased to 20 per cent
£309m £664m
Spain
> We are the number one across all
tobacco categories in Spain
> Our cigarette market share is 
37.1 per cent with brands including 
Fortuna, Ducados Rubio and Nobel
> Our fine cut tobacco and cigar shares 
are 49.1 and 36.8 per cent respectively 
£150m £411m
Rest of EU
> We increased our cigarette market 
share in many countries in the region
> JPS grew cigarette market share in 
a number of markets and Gauloises
Blondes also performed strongly 
> We have a leading fine cut tobacco
position across the region 
£494m £1,250m
Americas
> Our share of the overall cigarette market
in the USA increased to 4.3 per cent
> Our USA market share in fine cut 
tobacco grew to 8 per cent in September
> We expanded our portfolio with the
launch of Davidoff and Fortuna cigarettes
and Premier fine cut tobacco
£166m £542m
Rest of the
World
> We have grown our cigarette volumes
and delivered market share gains 
across the region
> We had excellent growth in Africa,
the Middle East and Eastern Europe
> With our versatile portfolio we see
significant opportunities for future growth
£404m £1,502m
Logistics
> A good performance in tobacco logistics
reflected a number of factors, including
stable volumes in Spain
> In other products, our traditional
wholesale business performed well 
in a difficult environment
Distribution fees Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
£607m £121m
p26
p27
p28
p29
p30
p31
p33
Get more online at:
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
Performance highlights
United
Kingdom
> Our leading cigarette market share 
is at 45.9 per cent 
> We have the UK’s two best-selling
cigarette brands in Lambert & Butler
and Richmond
> We are the clear market leader in fine 
cut tobacco and rolling papers 
Net revenue
£584m
Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
£869m
Germany
> Our cigarette market share grew 
to 27.4 per cent
> JPS is now Germany’s second 
best-selling cigarette brand with
7.8 per cent share 
> Our market share in Other Tobacco
Products increased to 20 per cent
£309m £664m
Spain
> We are the number one across all
tobacco categories in Spain
> Our cigarette market share is 
37.1 per cent with brands including 
Fortuna, Ducados Rubio and Nobel
> Our fine cut tobacco and cigar shares 
are 49.1 and 36.8 per cent respectively 
£150m £411m
Rest of EU
> We increased our cigarette market 
share in many countries in the region
> JPS grew cigarette market share in 
a number of markets and Gauloises
Blondes also performed strongly 
> We have a leading fine cut tobacco
position across the region 
£494m £1,250m
Americas
> Our share of the overall cigarette market
in the USA increased to 4.3 per cent
> Our USA market share in fine cut 
tobacco grew to 8 per cent in September
> We expanded our portfolio with the
launch of Davidoff and Fortuna cigarettes
and Premier fine cut tobacco
£166m £542m
Rest of the
World
> We have grown our cigarette volumes
and delivered market share gains 
across the region
> We had excellent growth in Africa,
the Middle East and Eastern Europe
> With our versatile portfolio we see
significant opportunities for future growth
£404m £1,502m
Logistics
> A good performance in tobacco logistics
reflected a number of factors, including
stable volumes in Spain
> In other products, our traditional
wholesale business performed well 
in a difficult environment
Distribution fees Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
£607m £121m
p26
p27
p28
p29
p30
p31
p33
Get more online at:
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think Contents
www.imperial-tobacco.com 1
Overview
2 Financial Highlights
3 Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Strategic and Financial Review
6 Chief Executive’s Review
8 Financial Review
12 Where We Operate
14 Focus on the Future
15 World Tobacco Market
16 Our Strategy
17 Key Performance Indicators
18 Case Study: United States of America
20 Case Study: Africa and the Middle East
22 Principal Risks and Operating Environment
Operating Review
26 United Kingdom
27 Germany
28 Spain
29 Rest of EU
30 Americas
31 Rest of the World
32 Manufacturing
33 Logistics
35 Corporate Responsibility
Directors’ Report: Governance
38 Board of Directors
40 Chief Executive’s Committee
41 Report of the Directors
44 Corporate Governance Report
55 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Case Study:
USA    p18
Financial Statements
72 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
74 Consolidated Income Statement
75 Consolidated Balance Sheet
76 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
76 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
77 Accounting Policies
83 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
85 Notes to the Financial Statements
127 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
128 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
129 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Balance Sheet
Supplementary Information
131 Principal Subsidiaries
133 Shareholder Information
135 Index
136 Glossary
Case Study: 
Africa and the
Middle East 
p20
Our new
logistics
operations
p33 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Financial Highlights
OVERVIEW
Volumes 2008 Change 2007
Cigarettes (billion) 291.8 +46% 200.3
Cigars (million) 2,452 >100% 316
Fine cut tobacco (tonnes) 25,150 +3% 24,450
In £s million 2008 Change 2007
Revenue 20,528 +66% 12,344
Profit from operations 1,157 -18% 1,418
Adjusted profit from operations 2,230 +51% 1,475
Profit before tax 621 -50% 1,237
Adjusted profit before tax 1,607 +30% 1,238
Attributable earnings 428 -53% 905
Adjusted attributable earnings 1,159 +26% 921
Distribution to shareholders 588 +26% 467
In pence 2008 Change 2007
Basic earnings per share 50.6 -57% 116.7
Adjusted earnings per share 136.9 +15% 118.8
Diluted earnings per share 50.4 -57% 116.2
Dividend per share 63.1 +4% 60.4
Results include the contribution from Altadis since completion of the acquisition on 25 January 2008 and the 2007 per share ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the bonus
element of the related rights issue.
Proﬁt from operations, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, basic and diluted earnings per share are impacted, where applicable, by amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, certain fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments, an exceptional gain on brand divestments, charges for one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments, retirement beneﬁt net ﬁnancing income and related taxation effects. Further detail of these items is included in the Financial Review.
Earnings per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average shares in issue of 846.5 million (2007: 775.5 million). Dividend per share has been determined 
using the current shares eligible for the ﬁnal dividend of 1,011.3 million (2007: 672.8 million), applying our policy of distributing around 50 per cent of adjusted 
attributable earnings.
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, as outlined in our accounting policy note, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, taxation and
earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses
on derivative ﬁnancial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation
effects. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations are included within note 1 to the ﬁnancial statements, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs in
note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8. The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁned terms under
International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.   OVERVIEW
www.imperial-tobacco.com 3
Chairman’s Statement
The past year has again demonstrated the success of our
strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
Iain Napier, Chairman
Delivering value
across the Group
In what was a year of signiﬁcant
achievement for Imperial Tobacco 
we delivered another good operational 
and ﬁnancial performance.
Earnings and Dividends
Our adjusted earnings per share have 
risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence. 
Basic earnings per share were 
50.6 pence (2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted 
for the bonus element of the rights issue
in June 2008), primarily impacted by
restructuring costs, fair value movements
on derivatives, amortisation of acquired
intangibles and one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments, partially offset 
by brand divestment gains. 
Adjusted attributable earnings grew 
by 26 per cent to a little under 
£1.2 billion. In line with our policy, the
Board is proposing to pay out half of 
this as ordinary dividends. The Board
recommends a final dividend of 
42.2 pence per share, bringing the 
total for the year to 63.1 pence 
(2007: 60.4 pence, adjusted for the
bonus element of the rights issue in 
June 2008).
1
Altadis
On 25 January 2008 we completed 
the acquisition of Altadis, significantly
enhancing our business proﬁle. We 
have a strong track record in acquisitions
and a reputation for integrating new
businesses efﬁciently. 
The enlarged Group has around 40,000
employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an
extended geographic reach and a more
versatile brand and product portfolio,
including international strength in cigarette
and world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars and rolling papers. We now also
have a leading logistics platform in Europe.  
As part of the integration process we
announced a number of European
restructuring projects in June which will
enable us to strengthen our competitive
position and deliver the previously
announced annual operating efﬁciencies 
of approximately €300 million by the end
of the ﬁnancial year ending 30 September
2010, rising to approximately €400 million
by the end of the ﬁnancial year ending 
30 September 2012. The estimated 
one-off cash cost of achieving these
efﬁciencies is approximately €600 million.
Regrettably, these projects are impacting
our workforce and we are committed 
to providing a comprehensive range 
of support measures to assist 
affected employees. 
Driving Operational Performance
Altadis and integration have been 
key priorities during the year but 
we have also remained focused on 
driving the operational performance 
of the enlarged business, which included 
an eight month contribution from 
“With our
enhanced
geographic
and brand
proﬁle we
look to the
future with
conﬁdence.”
1
If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid
on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 23 January 2009.  100
150
200
250
300
350
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE All-Share Index
Total Shareholder Return
Over the past ﬁve years our total shareholder return was 151 per cent and 
we have outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 106 per cent. 
Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08
4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Chairman’s Statement continued
Altadis and the ﬁrst full year contribution
from Commonwealth Brands.
Whilst building on our strong proﬁt base 
in mature markets we pursue growth in
emerging markets and this year we made
excellent progress in Eastern Europe,
Africa and the Middle East.
The USA is another important growth
market and one where our cigarette 
and ﬁne cut tobacco shares further
increased in the year. 
These positive operational developments
are underpinned by our ongoing focus 
on reducing costs and effectively
managing our cash. 
The Rights Issue
From the outset, we said that the
acquisition of Altadis would be 
part funded by a rights issue. 
At our half-yearly results in May we
announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a 
share price of 1475 pence per share to
raise £4.9 billion. The rights issue was
sized at the minimum level required to
maintain our investment grade credit
rating, to which we remain committed. 
Given the uncertainties affecting the capital
markets this year, it was gratifying to see
that the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent
and the remainder of the shares were
successfully sold in the market.
Following the success of the rights 
issue and two bond issues in September, 
we are comfortable with our current
ﬁnancing position.
Corporate Governance
As a major international company we 
seek to act in a fair and responsible
manner towards all stakeholders. 
It is the Board’s duty to review and
approve our Company’s policies in this
regard. We have in place processes which
enable us to meet the high standards 
of conduct expected of our Company. 
In September, we delisted from the 
New York Stock Exchange as part 
of our ongoing programme of business
simpliﬁcation. This will not compromise 
the integrity of our Corporate Governance
and internal control procedures and we 
will continue to communicate regularly 
with our investors based in the USA.  
Board Changes
David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director
and Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman,
retired during the year and I would like 
to express my sincere thanks to them 
for their contribution to the Company. 
There have been several new additions 
to the Imperial Tobacco Board during 
the year.  
We were delighted to welcome Jean-
Dominique Comolli, former Chairman 
of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive
Deputy Chairman. We also welcomed
Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both
former board members of Altadis, to 
our Board as Non-Executive Directors. 
All have a tremendous wealth of
international business experience 
and their knowledge of the tobacco
industry will be invaluable in ensuring that
we maximise the signiﬁcant opportunities 
the enlarged Group offers.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our
employees for their contribution to another
successful year. Imperial Tobacco and
Altadis employees have developed strong
working relationships and their combined
skills and expertise will enable us to create
further sustainable value for our
shareholders. 
The turbulent economic conditions are
unlikely to change in the short term but 
we are resilient and highly cash generative.
With our enhanced geographic and brand
proﬁle, and strong business fundamentals,
we can look to the future with conﬁdence.
Iain Napier
Chairman
OVERVIEW Strategic and 
Financial Review
In this section:
Chief Executive’s Review 6
Financial Review 8
Where We Operate 12
Focus on the Future 14
World Tobacco Market 15
Our Strategy 16
Key Performance Indicators 17
Case Study: United States of America 18
Case Study: Africa and the Middle East 20
Principal Risks and Operating
Environment 22 We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets 
and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially 
strengthened our business. Gareth Davis, Chief Executive
Significant
potential for
further growth
Performance Overview
The acquisition of Altadis has been the
highlight of an eventful year for Imperial
Tobacco. Our overall cigarette volumes
were up 46 per cent to 292 billion
cigarettes, including contributions from
Altadis and Commonwealth Brands.
Our cigarette portfolio is complemented 
by our world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco
and cigars. Overall, ﬁne cut tobacco
volumes were up to 25,150 tonnes, 
while cigar volumes were 2.5 billion.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced
geographic proﬁle and multi-product
portfolio and during the year we increased
our cigarette and ﬁne cut tobacco shares
and volumes across many territories. 
Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff
and Gauloises Blondes, performed very
well, complemented by further growth 
from a number of regional brands 
including Gitanes and JPS.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth 
by developing our brands and products
through investment and innovation,
supported by excellent trade marketing
skills and strong sales forces. 
Our versatile portfolio is characterised 
by great brands and products across 
all price segments, which provides
considerable growth opportunities given
the large and diverse number of markets 
in which we operate.
Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of
premium brands, we also have particular
strength in the value segment enabling 
us to capitalise on consumer downtrading 
in mature markets, a trend that is likely to
continue in the current economic climate.
Our continued success in the contrasting
markets of the USA, Eastern Europe,
Africa and the Middle East was particularly
pleasing and demonstrates our ability 
to successfully develop our business 
in both mature and emerging markets.
Integration
The integration of Imperial Tobacco 
and Altadis has been a key focus 
during the year. 
Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities
presented by our combined portfolio 
and enhanced geographic footprint, 
we have been managing the consultation
process related to our European
integration projects. 
These projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support
functions in a number of markets and will
improve our competitiveness by reducing
over-capacity and improving efﬁciencies. 
We concluded the European consultation
process in September and have made 
very good progress on the national
consultations and implementation 
of our projects in many markets.
We have completed the mergers of 
the Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales
teams in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria,
Belgium and Italy, and closed our cigar
and ﬁne cut tobacco factory in Slovakia.
The consultation process in France and
the UK has been completed, enabling 
us to begin implementing our projects 
in these markets in early 2009, while in
Spain and Germany the consultations 
are ongoing. We continue to offer
comprehensive support to all employees
affected by our integration projects.
Regulation
We continue to effectively manage the
increasing levels of regulation affecting 
our industry. We support sound and
proportionate regulation that respects
adult freedom of choice and recognises
that tobacco products are enjoyed by
millions of people worldwide. We have 
a long history of co-operation with
authorities in the markets in which 
we operate and remain committed 
to continuing to work constructively 
with individual governments and 
other regulatory bodies.
Corporate Responsibility
Our ongoing commitment to manage 
our business responsibly is fundamental 
to our long-term success. As a global
tobacco company we recognise the
importance of manufacturing, marketing
and selling our products responsibly. 
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review Over the years we have taken an
increasingly strategic approach to
promoting responsible behaviour 
through deﬁned governance structures,
group principles and policies. 
We have also established robust risk
management procedures, progressed 
our non-ﬁnancial performance reporting
processes and further developed our 
Five-for-Five corporate responsibility
initiative which was launched last year. 
Further information on our progress is
outlined on page 35 of this report and 
our detailed Corporate Responsibility
Review will be published in December.
Our People 
The development of our employees is
critical if we are to continue delivering
sustainable shareholder value and I am
proud of the success of the leadership
programmes we have in place. We seek 
to support and develop people in all
functions and at all levels, from senior
managers to employees who are at an
early stage of their career. 
Our programmes are run on an
international basis and participants are
often tasked with managing business
projects on behalf of the Chief Executive’s
Committee. I have been extremely
impressed with the results, which have
highlighted the signiﬁcant and growing
talent pool we have within the business.
Outlook
The integration of Altadis will remain 
a priority going forward. We have an
excellent track record of integrating new
businesses into the Group and remain 
on course to successfully deliver our
targeted cost savings. 
Leveraging our enhanced operating
platform and stronger, more diversiﬁed
brand and product portfolio will be key 
to driving future growth and I am conﬁdent
that we will realise the potential of the
many opportunities that lie ahead. 
Combined with our ongoing focus on cost
and effectively managing our cash, we
remain well placed to continue to create
sustainable value for our shareholders.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
Altadis related events in 2008
On 25 January 2008 we completed the acquisition of Altadis, strengthening
our position as one of the world’s leading international tobacco companies.
The transaction was the catalyst for a series of further related events, which
are highlighted in the table below.
26 Feb 2008 Offer for Logista
Altadis held a 59.6 per cent share in Logista, the largest distributor 
of tobacco and other products in Southern Europe. Under Spanish
takeover law we were required to make a tender offer for the
outstanding shares or reduce the shareholding to below 30 per cent.
We launched an unconditional offer for the outstanding shares held by
minority shareholders at a price of €52.50 per share. This offer closed
on 6 May 2008 with acceptances taking our overall holding to 96.9 per
cent, and enabling a squeeze-out of the remaining 3.1 per cent, which
was completed in June 2008. The additional cost of this transaction
was €925 million and Logista’s shares were subsequently delisted.
14 Apr 2008 Aldeasa disposal
We completed the disposal of the 49.95 per cent shareholding in
Aldeasa, a Spanish-based airport duty free retailer, that we acquired
with Altadis. The sale, for a consideration of €355 million, was to
Autogrill Espana, the other partner in the joint venture.
23 Apr 2008 Divestiture of tobacco brands
The divestment of a small number of brands in certain European
markets was a condition of the European Commission’s approval of 
the Group’s acquisition of Altadis and we therefore agreed the sale of
certain ﬁne cut and pipe tobacco brands to Philip Morris International for
a total consideration of €254 million. The divestment was completed on
30 June 2008 and will not materially affect the operational and ﬁnancial
performance of Imperial Tobacco. The gain realised on the divestment
was £174 million.
20 May 2008 Launched rights issue
We announced the launch of a fully underwritten rights issue to raise 
£4.9 billion to repay part of the debt facilities put in place to fund the cash
consideration paid for the acquisition of Altadis. The basis of the rights
issue was 1 new share for every 2 existing shares held on 15 May 2008 
at a subscription price of 1475 pence per share. At the close of the rights
issue on 11 June 2008 valid acceptances had been received in respect 
of 97.2 per cent of the total number of new shares offered. This was an
excellent response considering the ﬁnancial climate and the remainder 
of the shares were successfully sold by the underwriters on 12 June 2008.
19 Jun 2008 Integration announcement
We announced a number of European restructuring projects that we
propose to implement progressively over the next three years as part 
of the integration of Imperial Tobacco and Altadis. We believe that the
Group will be able to generate annual operating efﬁciencies from these
restructuring projects of around €300 million by the end of the ﬁnancial
year ending 30 September 2010, rising to around €400 million by the
end of the ﬁnancial year ended 30 September 2012. We estimate that
the one-off cash cost of achieving these efﬁciencies will be around 
€600 million.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
www.imperial-tobacco.com 7 8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Our good ﬁnancial performance and working capital 
improvements enabled us to generate free cash ﬂow of £1 billion. 
Robert Dyrbus, Finance Director
Strong cash
generation
Segmental Reporting
Prior to the acquisition of Altadis on 
25 January 2008, the Group undertook 
a single principal activity which was the
manufacturing, marketing and sale of
tobacco and tobacco-related products.
Following the acquisition of Altadis the
enlarged Group has two main business
activities, Tobacco and Logistics, which
have been used as the basis of the
segmental reporting in this report.
The Tobacco segment comprises 
the manufacturing, marketing and 
sale of tobacco and tobacco-related 
products including sales to, but not 
by, the Logistics segment. The Logistics
segment comprises the distribution 
of tobacco products for major tobacco
manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco,
as well as a wide range of other products
and services.
New Geographic Analysis
Following the acquisition we will be
reporting Tobacco results for the enlarged
Group using a new geographic analysis
reﬂecting the way we manage our
business. Further information can 
be found in our Preliminary Results
presentation on our corporate website 
at www.imperial-tobacco.com.
To aid understanding of our 2008 results,
we have also provided details of the
contribution of the standalone Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis businesses, as well
as a geographic breakdown of the existing
Imperial Tobacco business and a divisional
breakdown for Altadis.
Enlarged Group Performance
Results have beneﬁted from a full year’s contribution from Commonwealth Brands in the
USA and the consolidation of Altadis from 25 January 2008. These ﬁnancial results also
reﬂect good performances in a number of regions across the enlarged Imperial Tobacco
Group and foreign exchange gains which were partially offset by the impact of speciﬁc
events in Europe and Asia.
Enlarged Group Performance
Proﬁt from Adjusted proﬁt
Revenue operations from operations
In £s million 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Tobacco 15,650 12,344 1,531 1,418 2,107 1,475
Logistics 5,561 – 23 – 121 –
Eliminations (683) – (83) – 2 –
Fair value movements 
on derivatives – – (314) – – –
Group Total 20,528 12,344 1,157 1,418 2,230 1,475
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial Review
New Geographic Analysis of Tobacco 2008
Adjusted
proﬁt from
In £s million Net revenue operations
UK 869 584
Germany 664 309
Spain 411 150
Rest of EU 1,250 494
Americas 542 166
Rest of the World 1,502 404
Total 5,238 2,107 www.imperial-tobacco.com 9
Proﬁt from Operations 
In £s million 2008 2007
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 2,230 1,475
Acquisition accounting adjustments (161) –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (309) (23)
Brand divestment gains 174 –
Fair value movements on derivatives (314) (34)
Restructuring costs (463) –
Proﬁt from operations 1,157 1,418
Tobacco 
In £s million 2008 2007
Revenue 15,650 12,344
Net revenue 5,238 3,280
Proﬁt from operations 1,531 1,418
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 2,107 1,475
Adjusted operating margin % 40.2% 45.0%
The total restructuring charge in the year
was £463 million, with £442 million relating
to these integration projects. The expected
cash element of these restructuring costs
is £412 million and mainly relates to
redundancies and social plan costs. 
There was also £30 million in respect of
asset write downs. These ﬁgures reﬂect
where we were in the consultation process
at the end of September 2008, and we still
expect the total cash costs in respect of
the European restructuring projects to 
be in the region of €600 million.
In addition, we have announced some
smaller restructuring projects, including 
the integration of Lignum 2, our recent
USA acquisition, the closure of our cigar 
factory in Selma, Alabama, USA, and 
the streamlining of our Logistics operations
in France. These projects have resulted 
in additional restructuring charges 
of £21 million. 
Included within proﬁt from operations 
is €43 million of synergies generated 
from the Altadis acquisition. These were
primarily reﬂected in the Altadis results.
Production and purchasing accounted for
around 40 per cent of the savings with the
balance being split evenly between sales
and marketing and corporate overheads.
Logistics 
In £s million 2008 2007
Revenue 5,561 –
Distribution fees 607 –
Proﬁt from operations 23 –
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 121 –
Adjusted distribution margin % 19.9% –
Proﬁt from Operations
Acquisition Accounting Adjustments
There are a number of acquisition
accounting adjustments required under
IFRS which have affected reported proﬁt
from operations. The most signiﬁcant of
these are one-off adjustments related to
the fair value of stocks held by Altadis at
the date of the acquisition, which reduced
our reported proﬁt from operations for the
year by £118 million.
Prior to the acquisition of Altadis, 
Imperial Tobacco sold products to Altadis,
principally to the logistics business for
distribution in France, Spain, Italy and
Portugal, and recognised profit at the 
time of sale to Altadis. 
Following the acquisition we now
recognise these profits when the 
products are sold out of the enlarged
Group. There are similar, although smaller,
effects where Imperial Tobacco distributed
goods on behalf of Altadis prior to
acquisition. Together they have affected
reported proﬁt from operations recognised
in the year to 30 September 2008 by 
a further £43 million.
Acquired Intangibles Amortisation
Reported proﬁt from operations for 
the year included acquired intangible
amortisation costs of £309 million related
mainly to the Altadis and Commonwealth
Brands acquisitions. 
Brand Divestment Gains
Reported profit from operations includes 
a profit of £174 million on the sale of 
a number of fine cut and pipe tobacco
brands to Philip Morris International. 
The divestments will result in a full year
reduction of around £20 million in our 
profit from operations.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Fair value losses of £314 million on
derivative ﬁnancial instruments used 
to hedge our net investment in overseas
operations are included in proﬁt from
operations. These losses are offset by
gains on the underlying foreign currency
assets which have been recognised in the
exchange translation reserve.
Restructuring and Synergies 
In June we announced a number 
of restructuring projects in Europe 
as part of the integration of Imperial 
Tobacco and Altadis.  Altadis Divisional Results
from 25 January 2008
Fine cut Adjusted Adjusted
In £s million Cigarette and tobacco Net distribution proﬁt from
(unless otherwise stated) cigar volumes volumes revenue fees operations
Cigarette 84.7bn 2,000t 1,092 429
Cigar 2,162m 464 120
Logistics 641 139
Other (37)
Eliminations (10)
Total 641
Imperial Tobacco Regional Results (excluding Altadis)
In £s million Net Adjusted proﬁt Cigarette Fine cut tobacco 
(unless otherwise stated) revenue from operations volumes (bn) volumes (tonnes)
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
UK 869 876 570 564 21.4 22.9 2,350 2,200
Germany 567 524 267 238 19.5 20.4 4,150 4,700
Rest of W. Europe 665 635 332 326 18.0 19.6 12,800 14,900
USA 239 117 115 52 14.2 7.1 550 100
Rest of the World 1,314 1,128 294 295 134.0 130.3 3,300 2,550
Total 3,654 3,280 1,578 1,475 207.1 200.3 23,150 24,450
In the UK, despite the initial impact of
public smoking bans on volumes, proﬁts
were up, beneﬁting from price increases
and reduced costs.
In Germany, results were up, benefiting
from the strengthening euro exchange
rate. Share gains in both cigarette and 
fine cut tobacco alongside selective 
price increases were offset by market
volume declines, in part impacted by the
introduction of public smoking restrictions,
as well as ongoing downtrading. 
In the Rest of Western Europe we
delivered cigarette share growth in many
markets and beneﬁted by £37 million 
as a result of the strengthening euro
exchange rate. However, following the
Altadis acquisition, we have reassessed
and reduced the levels of stock of Imperial
Tobacco brands in Spain. This impacted
Imperial Tobacco standalone operations
but not the Group results as the offsetting
amount is reﬂected within eliminations. 
Our performance was also impacted by
the divestment of Interval in Europe and 
by travel retail declines in Western Europe.
Taking these operational factors into
account, we estimate that profit from
operations in this region was reduced 
by around £50 million in the year ended 
30 September 2008. 
Therefore, excluding foreign exchange,
underlying growth was around 6 per cent.
In the USA our results were enhanced 
by a full year’s contribution from
Commonwealth Brands. The results 
also reﬂect market share gains in both
cigarette and ﬁne cut tobacco and price
increases which more than offset cigarette
market volume declines and additional
investment on advertising and promotion
to support our brand launches. 
In the Rest of the World, we delivered
strong performances in many markets
across the region, particularly in Eastern
Europe, Africa and the Middle East 
and we have made further signiﬁcant
investment in the region with a view 
to continuing this momentum. 
This region also beneﬁted from a foreign
exchange beneﬁt of £26 million, which
helped offset the impact of the planned
destocking in Taiwan and Russia. We 
also absorbed duty to maintain market
share and our competitive position in 
some Central European countries as the
accession states move towards the end 
of their derogation periods. We estimate
that the overall impact of these events 
was a reduction in proﬁt from operations 
of around £50 million and, excluding foreign
exchange gains, that our underlying proﬁt
growth was around 8 per cent. 
After increasing our marketing investment
by around 10 per cent, particularly
focusing on the USA, Turkey and Ukraine,
we delivered underlying growth in total
proﬁt from operations of 4 per cent.
Altadis Divisional Results
In cigarette, we delivered a strong
performance reflecting market share 
gains and improved proﬁtability particularly
in Spain, France and North Africa.
Within cigar, we performed well in the
natural wrapper segments in the USA, 
with Habanos in the emerging markets 
of Eastern Europe, Latin America and 
Asia Paciﬁc, and in Spain with mini cigars. 
Overall, the division was impacted 
by increasing smoking restrictions 
and the economic slowdown.
In Logistics, results were in line with our
expectations with a good performance 
in Tobacco offsetting ongoing weakness 
in publications and transport. 
Other costs relate to Altadis central
overheads and support function costs.
10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial Review continued
Enlarged Group Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
Adjusted proﬁt
from operations
In £s million 2008 2007
Imperial 1,578 1,475
Altadis 641 –
Eliminations 11 –
Group Total 2,230 1,475 Other Financial Information
Net Finance Costs
Adjusted net ﬁnance costs were 
£623 million (2007: £237 million). On 
an adjusted basis, our interest cover was 
3.6 times (2007: 6.2 times). Our interest
cover for banking covenant purposes 
was higher as this excluded some 
matters, including the interest paid 
on the equity bridge.
Reported net ﬁnance costs of £536 million
(2007: £181 million) include retirement
beneﬁt net ﬁnance income of £45 million
(2007: £54 million) and fair value gains 
on interest rate derivatives of £42 million
(2007: £2 million). Reported and adjusted
net ﬁnance costs include £289 million
related to the acquisition of Altadis. 
Proﬁt Before Tax
Adjusted proﬁt before tax was £1,607
million (2007: £1,238 million). Reported
proﬁt before tax was £621 million 
(2007: £1,237 million).
Taxation
The adjusted tax charge for the year 
was £426 million (2007: £310 million)
representing an adjusted effective tax rate
of 26.5 per cent (2007: 25.0 per cent). The
increase in the adjusted effective tax rate 
is due to the higher rates of tax applying 
to Altadis. The reported tax charge was
£180 million (2007: £325 million).
Earnings per Share and Dividends
Adjusted earnings per share increased 
by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence. Basic
earnings per share were 50.6 pence 
(2007: 116.7 pence), primarily impacted 
by restructuring costs, fair value
movements on derivatives, amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and one-off
acquisition accounting adjustments,
partially offset by brand divestment gains. 
 The total amount of dividends payable in
respect of 2008 is £588 million, an
increase of 26 per cent on last year, which
reﬂects growth in our adjusted attributable
earnings to a little under £1.2 billion and
maintains our payout ratio at around 
50 per cent, in line with previous years. 
We have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 
42.2 pence per share such that the total
dividend for the year is 63.1 pence.
Following approval by shareholders this
dividend will be paid on 20 February 2009
to those shareholders on the register at
close of business on 23 January 2009. 
Net Debt and Cash
At 30 September 2008, our reported net
debt had increased to £11.7 billion 
(2007: £4.9 billion). Eliminating accrued
interest, the fair value of interest rate
derivatives and ﬁnance lease liabilities, 
our adjusted net debt was £11.5 billion 
(2007: £4.8 billion). Additional borrowings
to ﬁnance the Altadis acquisition have 
been partially offset by the proceeds of 
£4.9 billion from the rights issue. Our cash
conversion was 86 per cent (2007: 81 per
cent). This level was achieved despite the
lower than usual level of Altadis net debt at
the date of acquisition which normalised in
February, resulting in a cash outﬂow of
approximately £400 million. Excluding this
impact, our cash conversion was 103 per
cent, slightly ahead of our target.
Foreign Exchange
Net revenue was increased by 
£257 million mainly as a result of the
stronger euro exchange rate. Adjusted
proﬁt from operations was increased by
£93 million and this was partially offset by
an adverse impact on adjusted net ﬁnance
costs of £19 million.
Acquisitions and Non-Core-Asset
Disposals
On 25 January 2008, we completed 
the acquisition of Altadis for a total 
cash consideration of €50 per share
representing an enterprise value for Altadis
of €15.2 billion (£11.3 billion as of 
Cash and Debt
Our business is highly cash generative
and we aim to convert around 
100 per cent of our profit from
operating activities after net capital
expenditure into cash. We have
performed a review of all aspects 
of capital employed to enable 
us to deliver further sustainable
improvements in our working capital. 
At the end of September 2008 we 
had committed ﬁnancing facilities in
place of around £14 billion. Around 
66 per cent was bank facilities with 
the balance raised through capital
market bond issues. 
Our closing adjusted net debt was
£11.5 billion which was denominated 
in the following currencies: 62 per cent
euros, 25 per cent US dollars and the
remaining 13 per cent mainly sterling.
Our all-in cost of debt was stable at 
5.5 per cent. We had a successful 
dual-tranche bond issuance in
September 2008 where the £1.2 billion
raised has fulﬁlled our short-term
ﬁnancing needs. In the short term, we will
utilise the high level of cash we generate
to reduce debt and to continue to create
additional value for our shareholders.
25 January 2008), taking into account
Altadis’ net debt and the interests of
minority shareholders at that date. Our
tender for the 40.38 per cent Logista
minority which we did not acquire through
the Altadis acquisition ended on 6 May
2008, with 37.3 per cent accepting our
offer. We subsequently used the squeeze-
out mechanism to compulsorily acquire all 
of the remaining Logista shares for a 
total cash consideration of €925 million.
On 14 April 2008 we completed the disposal
of Altadis’ 49.95 per cent shareholding in
Aldeasa S.A. to Autogrill S.A. for a total cash
consideration of €275 million and a number
of ﬁne cut and pipe tobacco brands were
sold to Philip Morris International for 
€254 million on 30 June 2008.
Continuing the programme of non-core
asset disposals of €650 million originally
announced by Altadis in April 2007, 
€380 million had been realised as at 
30 September 2008. This includes the sale 
of Logista’s stake in Iberia for €220 million
prior to our acquisition of Altadis. Since
completion of the Altadis acquisition 
€34 million has been realised. 
Rights Issue
In June we completed a 1 for 2 rights 
issue at a subscription price of 
1475 pence which raised £4.9 billion 
and we used the proceeds to repay 
the equity bridge facility put in place 
to part fund the Altadis acquisition.
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
www.imperial-tobacco.com 11 Imperial Tobacco Cigarette 
Volumes %
Emerging
markets
Developed
markets
60
40
signiﬁcant growth in the Central European
markets of Hungary and the Czech
Republic this year.
Cigar
With the acquisition of Altadis we became
the global leader in cigar, with sales in
more than 120 countries worldwide. We
hold around a quarter share of the global
market and have leadership in the high
value premium cigar sector. 
We are the market leader in France and
Spain and are the number one in the large
cigar segment in the USA in value terms. 
Our joint venture, Corporación Habanos, 
is an exclusive exporter and marketer 
of Cuban cigars, and offers further
opportunities for the Group to develop 
its interests in this segment.
The largest cigar markets are
predominantly in North America and
Western Europe. However, we are seeing
impressive growth rates in the emerging
markets of Asia, Eastern Europe and the
Middle East. 
We have pursued a consistent strategy 
of expanding our international footprint
and developing our multi-product portfolio
to create sustainable value for our
shareholders. 
This has resulted in a diversiﬁed tobacco
company, with a strong presence within
the developed markets of the European
Union and an increasing share of the
emerging markets of the world. 
Some 60 per cent of our cigarette 
volumes now come from the growing
emerging markets. 
Cigarette
We combine a strong and growing
cigarette presence in the mature markets 
of Europe, the USA and Australasia with
expanding market shares across the
emerging markets in Eastern Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and Asia. 
Our focus is on creating comprehensive
coverage of key price segments within
individual markets through our portfolio 
of local, regional and international brands.
Due to the addition of Altadis’ cigarette
business, we now have a broader portfolio
of brands with which we can enhance our
position in both new and existing markets.
The acquisition of Altadis has increased our geographic reach and
portfolio of brands in both cigarette and other tobacco products.
A stronger
international
portfolio
Other Tobacco Products
Through brands including Golden Virginia
and Drum, we are the global leader in 
ﬁne cut tobacco with the largest market
shares in several countries within the
European Union. 
Our acquisition of Lignum 2 during the
year added the Rave brand to our portfolio
and doubled our ﬁne cut tobacco market
share in the USA. 
Fine cut tobacco is growing in response 
to the demand from cigarette consumers
downtrading to value for money options. 
It is primarily a developed market product
but we see opportunities for introductions
into new markets and have achieved 
12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Where We Operate CIGARETTE FINE CUT TOBACCO CIGAR
We are a diversiﬁed tobacco company with strong international
positions across our key product categories.
We have leading
cigarette positions
in markets across
Europe, Asia, 
Africa and the
Middle East. 
Our portfolio of
brands has given 
us global leadership
in the growing 
ﬁne cut tobacco
segment. 
We are the world
leader in cigar with
particular strength
in the high value
premium sector. 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 13 Focus on the Future
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Our Corporate Development team is focused on the strategic 
direction and sustainable growth of the business.
Alison Cooper, Corporate Development Director
Corporate Development was established
to focus on the long-term strategy and
sustainable growth of Imperial Tobacco. 
It brings together various activities 
within the Group, including Business
Development, Corporate Affairs, and
Strategy and Foresight, with the task 
of examining how the business and the
industry are developing and identifying
future growth opportunities. Corporate
Development is also responsible for
Corporate Communications and 
managing the integration of Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis.
Business Development
We have a long and successful track
record of acquisitions and although 
further signiﬁcant consolidation within 
the industry may be more limited, there
remain numerous opportunities for further
market or product speciﬁc acquisitions.
The Business Development team
continually evaluates these opportunities
against Imperial Tobacco’s ﬁnancial and
strategic acquisition criteria. 
The team is also responsible for assessing
potential strategic alliances and joint
ventures that will further develop our
business and create value for our
shareholders.
This year there has been considerable
focus on activities related to the 
acquisition of Altadis. 
These have included the disposal of our
stake in the duty-free retailer, Aldeasa, 
the divestment of certain fine cut and 
pipe tobacco brands as required by the
European Commission and the buy-out 
of the minority shareholding in the logistics
business, Logista. 
Elsewhere, Business Development has led
negotiations in the successful buy-out of
the outstanding shares in the Scandinavian
snus company, Skruf, and the USA cigar
business, JR Cigars. 
Corporate Affairs
We support sound and proportionate
regulation and continually seek
opportunities for active engagement 
on a range of issues affecting our industry,
including public smoking restrictions,
packaging regulation, ingredients
disclosure, excise duties, illicit trade 
and the display of tobacco products 
at the point of sale.
This requires expertise across all
Corporate Affairs’ disciplines and we
constantly review our structure to ensure
that we have sufﬁcient skills and resources
in place to inform on strategy and
effectively manage these issues.
Strategy and Foresight
In Strategy and Foresight we focus on
longer-term planning issues, anticipating
changes to our operating environment 
and how these might impact our business.
Strategy and Foresight’s core objective 
is to ensure that the enlarged Group is 
well placed to maximise the potential 
of its combined portfolio and enhanced
operating platform. This requires a diligent
approach to monitoring and responding 
to external events. 
The team continually reviews evolving
market dynamics and the potential effect 
they may have on consumers and the
demand for our products. Understanding
these issues and developing appropriate
responses are fundamental to the strategic
direction of Imperial Tobacco.
Integration
Integration is managed by a dedicated
Integration Team in conjunction with
functional senior managers, and reports
into the Chief Executive’s Committee via
the Corporate Development Director. 
The team is particularly focused on
managing the speciﬁc European
integration projects which will improve
operational efﬁciencies and deliver
substantial cost savings. This involves
managing a wide range of activities
throughout the consultation and
implementation phases, ensuring 
that all employees affected by the 
projects are treated responsibly 
and provided with a comprehensive 
range of support measures. 
Outlook
Critical to the success of our business 
has been our ability to anticipate and
respond to changing market dynamics 
and consumer preferences. We achieve
this by encouraging all functions to work
together to optimise our growth potential.
This cross-functional approach is vital 
and we are currently implementing a
number of structural changes that will
strengthen cross-functional collaboration
and ensure that it is fully embedded 
across the enlarged Group. 
Regional Forums and a Group Planning
Forum, with representatives from all
functions and strong links to the Chief
Executive’s Committee, are established
and have the remit to identify and
maximise the many opportunities 
that lie ahead.
Scope of role
> Planning for the long-term
development of the Group. 
> Assessing acquisitions and
developing strategic alliances 
and joint ventures.
> Engaging externally on issues
affecting our company and 
the industry.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com World Tobacco Market 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 15
The world tobacco market is stable with over five trillion 
cigarettes consumed each year. 
Industry Overview 
The past year has seen signiﬁcant change
among the largest tobacco companies,
with Imperial Tobacco’s acquisition of
Altadis, formerly the ﬁfth largest company
in the industry, and Altria retaining its
operations in the USA and spinning 
off its international tobacco operations 
to form Philip Morris International. 
Excluding China, which accounts for a
third of total global cigarette consumption,
the five largest tobacco companies are
Philip Morris International, British American
Tobacco, Japan Tobacco, Imperial
Tobacco and Altria. The respective
cigarette market shares are 24 per cent,
19 per cent, 17 per cent, 9 per cent and 
5 per cent. Together, they account for 
74 per cent of the total cigarette market. 
Stability in the world tobacco market 
is a function of offsetting trends in the
developed and emerging markets. 
In the developed markets, such as those 
in Western Europe, smoking incidence 
is expected to continue to decline, with 
the percentages of smokers within total
populations reducing. However, the
number of adults in the world is expected
to grow, especially in emerging market
regions, such as Africa and Asia, and 
as a result we expect that overall annual
global consumption will remain broadly
unchanged in the medium term.
Tobacco regulation and legislation have
increased in recent years, including
restrictions on smoking in public places,
advertising and promotional restrictions
and pictorial health warnings. 
Excise duties have also increased,
especially in the developed markets,
leading consumers to downtrade to value
brands and products. The level of excise
also tends to facilitate a positive pricing
environment for the industry.
Summary
> The developed markets are
experiencing a move towards
lower priced tobacco products. 
> In the emerging markets volumes
are growing and consumers are
uptrading to international brands. 
> Diversiﬁcation across tobacco
products is an increasingly
common strategy.
Global market shares %
Altria
British
American
Tobacco
Japan 
Tobacco
Imperial 
Tobacco
Group
Philip Morris
International
Other
Other tobacco products, particularly ﬁne
cut tobacco, have experienced growth 
as a result of this trend, and this is
expected to continue. Conversely, 
in emerging markets, premium brands
have been growing as consumers are
increasingly trading up.
The global market for cigars has been
stable in recent years with growth being
experienced in smaller, mass market
oriented products. The market is
concentrated in the developed markets 
of Western Europe and the USA, although
growth is being seen in the emerging
markets of Asia, the Middle East and
Eastern Europe.
Industry Outlook
While the tobacco markets of the EU,
North America and Australasia are 
mature we believe there are still many
opportunities to grow proﬁts. 
We expect that our organic growth will
continue to be derived from volume trends
across the emerging markets and product
categories, enhanced by market share
gains from other manufacturers resulting
from entry into new markets, new brand
launches and the introduction of innovative
brand variations. 
Cost management will also contribute 
to organic proﬁt growth.
Diversiﬁcation into the full array of tobacco
products by broadening their portfolios
beyond cigarette, is a common thread 
of the strategic objectives being pursued
by the major tobacco companies, 
as is the development of international 
cigarette brands. 
Further consolidation within the tobacco
industry may be limited, but still remains 
a strategic opportunity, with more focus 
on market or product speciﬁc acquisitions
and strategic alliances. 
5
19
17
9
24
26 Our Strategy
16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
We are delivering on our global strategy by actively pursuing 
three primary strategic objectives.
To create sustainable shareholder value by growing our
operations organically and through acquisitions.
Sales development Cost focus Cash management
The enlarged Group has sales in over 
160 countries. In the developed markets
we have strong positions in the European
Union and a growing presence in the USA.
In these markets volumes are in gradual
decline but we have beneﬁted from a
combination of the pricing environment
and our ability to respond to trends, 
such as downtrading, by positioning 
our portfolio to meet consumer demand.
This is balanced with extensive exposure
to the emerging markets of the rest of 
the world, including Eastern Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and Asia. These 
are markets where volumes have been
growing, and account for 60 per cent 
of our overall cigarette business. In 
these regions, there are considerable
opportunities to develop our international,
regional and local brands in new and
existing markets. 
We have a versatile brand and product
portfolio that has been enhanced
signiﬁcantly with the acquisition of Altadis.
We have strong local, regional and
international brands across all tobacco
categories and comprehensive coverage
of the key price segments within individual
markets.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth 
by developing our brands and products
through investment and innovation,
supported by excellent trade marketing
skills and strong sales forces.
Managing costs and improving 
the efﬁciency of our operations are 
core objectives. 
Our challenge each year is to find new
ways of optimising our manufacturing
capacity and performance. These
improvements have to be achieved without
undermining our approach to best practice
or our focus on quality and innovation.
Standardisation across the manufacturing
portfolio has become a central theme 
of our success. 
We are already addressing many issues
relating to cost management and efﬁciency
resulting from the ongoing integration 
of the enlarged Group. 
We believe there are many opportunities 
to deliver cost improvements through
better resource allocation, simpliﬁcation 
of processes and infrastructure, and the
economies of scale available from our
combined purchasing power. 
The Group’s business is highly cash
generative and our focus is on managing
capital expenditure and working capital,
tax and interest costs to ensure cash ﬂows
are optimised. As a result of the increased
debt arising from the acquisition of Altadis,
a reduction in our overall debt level is a 
key objective for cash management going
forward. Our objective is to ensure that the
cash we generate is used efﬁciently, and
as well as paying down debt we will 
invest in the future growth of the business,
including acquisitions, and return cash 
to shareholders through dividends and,
when appropriate, share buybacks. 
Since our listing on the London Stock
Exchange in 1996, we have invested 
over £17 billion in acquisitions. We are
committed to continuing to expand our
business through both acquisitions and
organic investment opportunities. 
Over £3.7 billion has been returned 
to shareholders through a combination 
of dividends and our share buyback
programme. Our dividend policy is to
increase dividends broadly in line with
underlying earnings growth, with a payout
ratio of around 50 per cent, and this has
led to increases in the dividend each year
since our listing. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
See our case studies on the USA and Africa and 
the Middle East demonstrating our strategy in action
p18-21 Key Performance Indicators
www.imperial-tobacco.com 17
Key Performance Indicators are the principal measures used 
by the Board to assess performance against our strategy.
Adjusted Earnings 
Per Share
2008 performance 2007 performance
1
118.8p
Total Shareholder Return
2
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE All-Share Index
30%
Cash Conversion Rate
81%
Cigarette Market Share
3
Productivity
4
+7%
1
Imperial Tobacco standalone ﬁgures.
2
In 2008 Imperial Tobacco achieved a total shareholder return 17 per cent greater than that of the FTSE All-Share Index (2007: 18 per cent greater).
3
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
4
Excluding Altadis.
46.4%
21.3%
5.9%
Volumes
200.3bn
24,450t
316m
Adjusted Operating Margin
Adjusted Distribution Margin 
45.0% 
136.9p
-5%
86%
+5%
45.9%
UK
27.4%
Germany
37.1%
Spain
291.8bn
Cigarettes
2,452m
Cigars
40.2%
Tobacco
19.9%
Logistics
25,150t
Fine Cut Tobacco 
12% -22% 18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Case Study: United States of America
Our expansion into the USA demonstrates our ability 
to continue to create value in mature markets.
Graham Blashill, Group Sales & Marketing Director
Implementing our
strategy in the USA
Our recent rapid expansion into the USA 
is a good example of our ability to create
value through targeted investment.
We have sold rolling papers and tubes in
the USA since our acquisition of the Rizla
business in 1997 but made a strategic
decision not to enter the tobacco market
due to the uncertain litigation environment. 
Over the years, however, this has eased
considerably reﬂecting the fact that the
vast majority of individual and class action
claims in the USA have been decided in
favour of the tobacco industry. 
These improvements prompted us to 
re-evaluate our strategy. We originally
intended to enter the USA tobacco 
market organically but in 2007 had the
opportunity to acquire Commonwealth
Brands, the fourth largest tobacco
company in the USA.
The company, based in Bowling Green,
Kentucky, had a 3.7 per cent cigarette
market share from a portfolio of 
discount brands, a sizeable sales 
force, and a modern factory in 
Reidsville, North Carolina. 
The company was also the exclusive
distributor of the Bali Shag and 
McClintock ﬁne cut tobacco brands.
Commonwealth Brands was one of the
ﬁrst tobacco companies to voluntarily sign
the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA)
and, like Imperial Tobacco, has never lost
or settled any product liability claim. 
The MSA is an agreement between
tobacco manufacturers and the National
Association of Attorneys General. 
In return for annual payments based 
on market share and compliance with
restrictions on advertising and marketing,
each MSA member is protected from 
State healthcare cost actions.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW www.imperial-tobacco.com 19
USA: Cigarette market share %
Altria
Reynolds
American
Lorillard
Imperial Tobacco
Group
Other
10
50
26
10
4
Membership of the MSA is important in
managing litigation risk in the USA and
was always a pre-requisite for our entry
into the tobacco market.
The acquisition of Commonwealth 
Brands provided a strong platform for
growth which we have optimised through
a number of initiatives. 
Imperial Tobacco secured MSA
membership in November 2007 in order 
to be able to sell our own tobacco brands
in the USA. We have subsequently
launched Davidoff in key cities across 
the USA and Fortuna in both Florida 
and Texas. 
We also focused on driving the growth 
of Commonwealth Brands’ portfolio of
discount brands, which include USA 
Gold and Sonoma, and our cigarette 
share has now increased to 4.3 per cent.
Fine cut tobacco is a growth area in the
USA and as world leader in this sector 
we were quick to capitalise on this
opportunity, acquiring the Bali Shag
and McClintock brands in the USA, 
and launching our own brand, Premier. 
We further enhanced our ﬁne cut tobacco
portfolio with the Rave brand following 
the acquisition of the company, Lignum 
2, in May 2008. These initiatives have
significantly developed our fine cut
tobacco share which had grown to around
8 per cent in September 2008 compared 
to 1 per cent in the previous year.
Completing our multi-product portfolio 
is our market-leading position in cigars, 
in terms of net sales, which we inherited
through the Altadis acquisition. We offer
the broadest range of cigar products in 
the USA, from premium to mass market. 
Although our cigar sales have been
generally affected by smoking restrictions
and the economic downturn, particularly 
in the premium category, this is being
offset by the good performance of our
brands in the natural wrapper segment
and growth in cigarillos.
Altadis had a 51 per cent stake in 
JR Cigars, a nationwide retailer of cigars
and related products, and in October 2008
we purchased the remaining shares to
further strengthen our position in the market.
Outlook
In a relatively short period of time we have
developed a strong and growing presence
in the USA tobacco market and remain
very well positioned to continue to improve
our market shares and proﬁtability. 
Through our strong portfolio we have a
presence in cigarette, ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigar and rolling papers and tubes. This
broad representation provides signiﬁcant
potential for future growth.
Sales excellence is key to our success 
and we are currently in the process 
of expanding our sales force. This 
will improve our national distribution
capabilities and ensure that we continue 
to maximise the opportunities that our
versatile multi-product portfolio offers.
In a relatively short
period of time we have
developed a diverse
portfolio of brands
across cigarette, ﬁne 
cut tobacco and cigars. Case Study: Africa and the Middle East
The acquisition of Altadis has signiﬁcantly enhanced our
presence and future growth potential in Africa and the Middle East. 
Developing
opportunities in
emerging markets
Our presence in Africa and the Middle East
has grown steadily over the past decade.
We estimate that the region accounts for
almost 500 billion cigarettes annually. We
have very strong positions in established
markets and see numerous opportunities
for expansion through the introduction of
our brands across existing markets, and
by entry into new markets.
We have 13 manufacturing plants in the
region with a capacity of around 50 billion
cigarettes, including facilities in Morocco,
West Africa and Turkey.
Increases in tobacco regulation and
taxation are a feature of the African 
and Middle Eastern markets. As in all our
markets we remain focused on effectively
managing the implications of regulation 
on our business.
The evolving political dynamics can at
times lead to instability in some countries
but our committed and experienced
employees have continually demonstrated
their ability to overcome these challenges.
Africa
In 2001, we signiﬁcantly enhanced our
position in Sub-Saharan Africa with the
acquisition of a majority stake in Tobaccor,
a major cigarette manufacturer and
distributor with strong market shares 
in a number of African countries and 
an expanding business in Vietnam. The
acquisition transformed our presence 
in Africa and provided a springboard 
for growth in South East Asia. 
In 2008, with the acquisition of Altadis we
have again strengthened our position, more
than doubling our volumes in the region with
the addition of an Altadis footprint that was
complementary to our own, and bringing 
us into new markets. 
We are the market leader in the majority 
of our markets in Africa and have
consistently achieved market share gains 
in many areas including the Ivory Coast,
Burkina Faso and Senegal. 
Our footprint in Africa is by no means
complete, and there is substantial scope
for us to expand further into new markets. 
Through Altadis we gained entry into
Morocco and are now the number one
player with our leading cigarette brand
Marquise. We have also launched 
our premium brand Davidoff with
encouraging early results.
Our other key brands in Africa include
Fine, Gauloises Blondes, Excellence,
Mustang and Good Look. Mustang, 
a mid-priced brand in Burkina Faso, has
grown market share to almost 46 per cent,
while Fine, a mid-priced brand sold in key
markets such as the Ivory Coast, Chad
20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW and Congo, has seen consistent volume
growth. Excellence, a value brand also
sold in the Ivory Coast, Senegal and
Burkina Faso, has performed similarly well,
as have Gauloises Blondes in Algeria and
Good Look in Madagascar.
Whilst focusing on developing our
business we remain committed to
supporting the tobacco growing industry 
in Africa. We believe that we have 
a responsibility to help address key 
issues affecting tobacco farmers. 
We strive to prevent the exploitation 
of children through our membership 
of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco
Foundation and help tobacco growers
develop sustainable agricultural practices
as part of the Social Responsibility in
Tobacco Production programme. 
Our ongoing community investment
initiatives have also provided wide 
ranging support to local communities,
including improved education and
healthcare facilities.
Middle East
Whereas in Africa a major acquisition
provided us with strong established 
market shares, which we have continued 
to develop, our progress in the Middle East
has been based on an import strategy 
that seeks to build share through the
development of our international brands. 
The acquisition of Altadis has enhanced
our geographic proﬁle in the region and
has also considerably strengthened our
cigarette portfolio.
Gauloises Blondes is now our leading
cigarette brand in the Middle East,
complemented by Gitanes and Davidoff. 
These prestigious brands are supported 
by a number of regional and local brands,
including Superkings and Golden Gate. 
Davidoff has been a real success story 
in the region, recording compound annual
growth of 44 per cent over the last five
years. Davidoff’s best selling market is
Saudi Arabia, where its share now stands
at over 9 per cent.
Our expanding operations in Turkey are
also included in this region. We entered
the Turkish market in 2003 with the
construction of a new cigarette factory
which became fully operational a year 
later. We have since captured a 3.2 per
cent market share with our brands Klasik,
With the acquisition 
of Altadis we doubled
our volumes in a region
estimated to account 
for almost 500 billion 
cigarettes annually.
West and Davidoff, and are strengthening
our position with increased marketing
investment. 
Outlook
Africa and the Middle East have been key
growth regions for both Imperial Tobacco
and Altadis, and we see further signiﬁcant
opportunities given our combined portfolio
and geographic reach.
Our international cigarette brands are
performing well in the Middle East and
through our portfolio of local brands in
Africa we are focused on enhancing our
strong market shares. We also have
ambitions to further grow our international
brand presence in the African region. 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 21 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Principal Risks and 
Operating Environment
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
A detailed assessment of strategic risks within our operating
environment is undertaken by management and is embedded
into our corporate planning process.
Each area of the business is required to formally
review its principal areas of risk and uncertainty 
so that major risks are reviewed at all levels across
the Group. This is an ongoing process, ensuring
there are clear and consistent procedures for
monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate
controls to manage the identiﬁed risks. The Board
has responsibility for the Group’s systems of
internal control. We are subject to the same 
general risks and uncertainties as any other
business; for example, the political stability in 
the countries in which we operate and source our
raw materials, the impact of natural disasters and
changes in general economic conditions including
currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations, changes in
taxation legislation and the impact of competition.
Outlined below is a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that are specific to and may
impact our business. Not all these factors are
within the Group’s control. There may be other risks
and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group
or which may not be material now but could be
material in the future. A more detailed description 
of risks relating to the Group is set out in 
Part II of our rights issue prospectus dated 
20 May 2008, available on our website: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Regulation
The tobacco industry is subject to substantial 
and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices. 
In many of the markets in which we operate, 
there are regulatory restrictions affecting the
development, manufacture, sale, distribution,
marketing and advertising of tobacco products.
Any future increases in regulation of the tobacco
industry could have an adverse effect on the
demand for our products or increase the 
costs related to compliance. Key regulatory
developments in 2008 are outlined below. 
1) WHO Framework Convention 
on Tobacco Control
The World Health Organization’s (WHO) Framework
Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), ratiﬁed 
by 160 countries, provides all ratifying countries
with a framework within which national authorities
may decide on the most appropriate tobacco
control regulation for their national circumstances.
The FCTC contains wide-ranging provisions,
including those on advertising, ingredients, 
product testing, taxation and illicit trade. 
Our View
We respect the WHO’s overall objective of the
‘attainment by all peoples of the highest possible
level of health’ and agree with some principles 
of the Convention, most notably the need to
prevent youth smoking and combat illicit trade 
in tobacco products. 
However, it is our belief that the WHO should 
not attempt to regulate areas that fall outside its
mandate or competence, as many FCTC provisions
seek to go beyond reasonable objectives and
impose a supranational regulatory regime covering
a wide range of areas better addressed by national
regulators, who are familiar with local conditions.
Moreover, it gives the WHO authority to establish
rules in areas outside its core competence – areas
that fall under the jurisdiction of other bodies such
as the World Trade Organization or the International
Organization for Standardization. 
2008 Update
New work has been agreed by the parties 
to the FCTC, including the development of
guidelines on advertising and sponsorship,
packaging and labelling, smoking cessation, 
and education. The development work for 
a further protocol that would focus solely on cross-
border advertising has been suspended following
the decision to develop a comprehensive guideline
on advertising, sponsorship and promotion. 
Little progress has been made regarding the
development of the protocol on illicit trade which
addresses issues such as licensing, tracking and
tracing, duty free, supply chain, anti-money
laundering provisions and internet sales. As a
consequence, adoption of the protocol is likely 
to be moved back from 2010 to 2012. 
2) UK Consultation on the Future of Tobacco
Control
In May 2008 the UK Department of Health issued 
a consultation document on the future of tobacco
control which covered many areas including
proposals to ban product display, vending sales
and 10 packs. We submitted a detailed response
rigorously opposing these proposals, and this
document is available via our corporate website:
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Our View
We agree with reasonable regulation and 
remain committed to working constructively 
with governments and other regulatory bodies
around the world. However, legislation must 
meet the principles of good regulation by being
proportionate, supported by compelling evidence
and ﬁt for purpose. 
In our view the proposals outlined in the
Department of Health’s consultation document 
do not meet these criteria. The Department of
Health is expected to publish a summary of all 
the responses received, before 8 December 2008.
3) Smoking in Public Places
Authorities have introduced tighter regulations 
on smoking in public places in many of 
the markets in which we operate.
Our View
We support sensible regulation but believe 
that bans on smoking in public places are
disproportionate and unnecessary. Our experience
in markets where smoking restrictions or total bans
are in place supports our view on the impact of 
this legislation; while there may be an initial dip 
in cigarette consumption, this tends to diminish
over time. However, we are concerned that these
unnecessary restrictions have an adverse effect 
on smokers and on the venues which may wish 
to allow smoking.
We believe that concerns about smoking in public
places can be resolved through common sense
and courtesy and by introducing practical solutions
such as well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking
areas into work places, restaurants and other
public places.
2008 Update
A proposal for a directive banning smoking 
in all enclosed work places, including catering
establishments, within the EU is expected to be
announced by the EU Commission through the
Director General Employment and Social Affairs 
by the end of 2008. This requires consultation with
the social partners: trade unions and employers
(or their representative organisations). The previous
consultation in 2004 led to the conclusion that
social partners were not in favour of an EU-wide
workplace smoking ban. If such a directive was
approved by the Council and Parliament, it would
override national legislation that allows for
exemptions in hospitality venues.
Comprehensive smoking bans in hospitality
venues are in place in a number of markets
including Ireland, the UK, Norway and New
Zealand, as well as in several Canadian provinces
and USA states. In France, a smoking ban in
hospitality venues took effect in January 2008. 
In Germany, there is a national ban on smoking in
public places; however, the regulation of smoking 
in hospitality venues is determined individually by
16 Federal states, resulting in varying degrees of
restrictions, ranging from full bans to exemptions
for small venues.
4) Pictorial Health Warnings 
There is a general trend towards introducing
pictorial health warnings. Countries such as
Canada, Brazil, Australia, Thailand and Singapore
have had pictorial health warnings on cigarettes
and other tobacco products for several years, 
while others have passed legislation which will
become effective in the near future.
Our View
We do not believe that pictorial health warnings 
are necessary, as such warnings are designed www.imperial-tobacco.com 23
solely to shock and stigmatise smokers, and we
disagree with their use. We believe that pictorial
health warnings make no overall contribution to 
the public awareness of the risks associated with
smoking, which are already well known. 
We support the principle of adult choice and
believe that we are entitled to use our packaging 
to enable our consumers to distinguish our
products from those of our competitors.
2008 Update
A number of markets in which we operate already
have, or will implement, pictorial health warnings 
in the near future. New Zealand introduced pictorial
health warnings earlier this year while the UK
Government required them from October 2008 
on all tobacco product packs. 
5) Product Display Bans at Point of Sale
Product display bans have been in place in parts 
of Canada for a number of years now. In Europe,
Iceland is currently the only country with a product
display ban in place. 
Our View
Imperial Tobacco encourages governments to
respect the principles of adult choice and freedom
of competition when regulating tobacco products.
We are opposed to regulation that restricts 
or prohibits retailers from displaying tobacco
products at the point of sale. 
We are concerned that smokers are unreasonably
and unjustifiably denied the opportunity to view 
the range of tobacco products available from 
their chosen retailer. The display of products is 
an important aspect of the consumer purchasing
process; it provides consumers with the information
to make a genuine selection from the wide range 
of tobacco products, brands and prices that are
available in retail outlets, whilst contributing to fair
and undistorted competition between tobacco
manufacturers and retailers. We are also concerned
that prohibiting or restricting the display of tobacco
products is likely to further fuel the illicit trade 
in tobacco products.
2008 Update
The Republic of Ireland is set to introduce a
product display ban in July 2009. Norway is also
expected to announce new regulations in 2009. 
In September, we submitted our response to the
UK Government’s consultation on future tobacco
control measures in England, Wales and Northern
Ireland, which among other issues, sought views
on proposals to ban or restrict product display or 
to retain the status quo. For further information our
submission is available via our corporate website:
www.imperial-tobacco.com. Similar proposals are
currently under consideration in Scotland and in the
Australian state of New South Wales.
6) Lower Ignition Propensity Products (LIPPs)
Canada and a number of states in the USA have
introduced regulations that all cigarettes sold 
in the market must comply with lower ignition
propensity standards. 
Our View 
Both regulators and the industry must take 
care with the terms used in any regulations and
promotion of products. The term ‘ﬁre-safe’, which
was adopted widely by USA media, is in our view
unhelpful and dangerously misleading. We prefer
the term ‘lower ignition propensity’.
We believe that the most effective way to reduce
ﬁres is through a range of measures including
public education, ﬁre protection and prevention
programmes.
2008 Update
A standard for LIPPs is being developed in the 
EU, and could be implemented in 2010. A ﬁnal
safety assessment was approved by the European
Commission in November 2007 and a mandate
has now been passed to the European Committee
for Standardization to establish a standard. 
The Australian Government has published 
a national LIPPs standard and is discussing 
the safety assessment process that is required 
before its implementation.
Excise Duty
Tobacco products are subject to excise duty 
which, in many of the markets in which we operate,
represents a substantial percentage of the retail
price and has been steadily increasing in recent
years. Increasing levels of excise duty are likely 
to encourage consumers in affected markets to
switch from premium-priced cigarettes to lower-
priced cigarettes and ﬁne cut tobacco, or to turn 
to the black market. Substantial increases in excise
duty and any signiﬁcantly unfavourable change 
in the tax treatment of ﬁne cut tobacco, if widely
adopted, may have an adverse effect on the size 
of individual duty paid markets for our products.
Excise duty increases encourage both legal and
illegal cross-border trade from countries with 
lower levels of duty and the production of
counterfeit tobacco products. Within such an
environment there is a risk that we and/or our
employees may be subject to investigation by
customs or other authorities. Although we have
implemented procedures to detect and control 
illegal trading of our products, such procedures can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance
of detecting non-compliance by managing rather
than eliminating risk.
Our View
We remain totally opposed to the illicit trade in 
both smuggled genuine and counterfeit tobacco
products. We are committed to working 
with government authorities and international
organisations around the world and we continue 
to invest considerable resources in working 
to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products. 
2008 Update
In general, levels of excise duty have been steadily
increasing in recent years in a number of markets 
in which we operate and this trend continued in EU
Member States in 2008. All the Member States that
joined the EU in May 2004 and January 2007 have
continued to implement excise duty increases as
they move towards the EU excise tax minima.
In the EU, the Tobacco Excise Tax Directive
contains a provision for its evaluation every four
years. A technical consultation document was
published in March 2007 seeking overall excise 
duty simpliﬁcation and a narrowing of differentials
between ﬁne cut tobacco and cigarette excise duty.
A formal report, published in July 2008, contained
ﬁrm proposals to amend the structure and minimum
levels of excise duty relating to tobacco products 
as well as product deﬁnitions. Discussions in 
the Member States, European Parliament and
European Council are now in progress. The new 
EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is expected 
to be adopted in 2009, with implementation 
from 2010. Considerable negotiation over the
proposals in consultation with the 27 Member
States is expected. Further increased levels 
are proposed from 2014. 
We continue to work with customs authorities
around the world to counter the illicit trade in
tobacco products. We have now signed formal
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) in 13 countries
including the UK, Ireland, Turkey and China, with
similar industry-wide co-operation agreements 
in Australia and the Ukraine.
Further information regarding certain investigations
initiated in January 2003 in relation to alleged foreign
trading and related violations by a number of people,
including former Reemtsma employees, during a
period prior to our 2002 acquisition of Reemtsma, 
is included in the Corporate Governance Report.
Key Market Dependency
The continued organic growth of the business 
is underpinned by our key markets. Any material
decline in the performance of these markets may
impact our future proﬁt development.
2008 Update
Our business proﬁle and brand and product
portfolio have been considerably strengthened
following the Altadis acquisition. Our extended
international footprint provides a more balanced
exposure to mature and emerging markets, 
while our enlarged portfolio includes international
strength in cigarette and world leadership in ﬁne 
cut tobacco, cigars, rolling papers and tubes. 
We now also have a leading logistics platform 
in Europe. This provides us with enhanced growth
opportunities and has resulted in individual key
markets contributing a lower percentage of the
Group’s adjusted proﬁt from operations.
Competition Law
We have signiﬁcant market positions in certain
countries. As a result, we may be subject to
enhanced regulatory scrutiny as to competition 
law in these countries, which could result in
adverse regulatory action by relevant authorities,
including the potential for monetary ﬁnes, 
and negative publicity.
2008 Update
Along with a number of other companies we
supplied information to the UK Ofﬁce of Fair Trading
(OFT) in October 2003 and April 2005 in relation 
to an enquiry into the operations of the UK tobacco
supply chain. On 25 April 2008 the OFT issued  Principal Risks and Operating Environment continued
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
a Statement of Objections (SO) to a number of
retailers and two tobacco manufacturers, including
Imperial Tobacco, alleging those parties had
engaged in unlawful practices in relation to retail
prices for tobacco products in the UK. On 11 July
2008, the OFT announced that six companies 
had reached early resolution agreements and had
agreed to pay individual penalties with a combined
maximum value of £173.3 million. 
Imperial Tobacco was not one of those companies.
We take compliance with competition law very
seriously and reject any suggestion that we have
acted in any way contrary to the interests of
consumers. Imperial Tobacco has co-operated 
fully with the OFT throughout and continues to 
do so. We provided our submission to the OFT
responding to the allegations in August 2008.
In the event that the OFT decides that a company
has infringed UK competition law, it may impose 
a ﬁne which could be material and have adverse
effects on the company’s proﬁtability. In the event
that such a fine is imposed on the Company 
we would be able to appeal the decision to 
the Competition Appeal Tribunal and, ultimately, 
on a point of law to the Court of Appeal. Further
information is available in the Corporate
Governance Report.
Tobacco-Related Litigation
We may incur substantial costs in connection with
health-related litigation. Various tobacco litigation
claims are pending against the Group. To date, 
no tobacco litigation claim brought against Imperial
Tobacco has been successful and/or resulted in 
the recovery of damages. However, if any individual
claim were to be successful, it may result in 
a significant liability for damages, and may lead 
to further claims against us. Regardless of the
outcome of pending litigation, the costs of
defending such claims can be substantial 
and may not be fully recoverable.
2008 Overview
We are not facing any active tobacco-related
litigation in the UK. In the Republic of Ireland, 
the number of tobacco-related claims has fallen
from 307 in 1997, to 11. Ten of these claims are
subject to dismissal motions. The other claim is
inactive. The dismissal motion in respect of one
claimant was heard by the Dublin High Court in
2006. In April 2007, the court ruled that this claim
should be dismissed. This decision has been
appealed and the dismissal motions in respect 
of the nine other active claims have been stayed
pending the appeal. No date has been set for 
the appeal hearing.
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January
2008, we are currently facing two claims in 
Spain. A claim on behalf of an individual has 
been dismissed pending appeal to the Spanish
Supreme Court.
A claim on behalf of the Regional Government 
of Andalucia has also been dismissed and
subsequently appealed to the Spanish Supreme
Court. The Regional Government is attempting 
to restart this claim, although no statement of claim
has been served upon us. We are not facing any
claims in France. Following our acquisition of
Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing 
a claim in Italy which is at an initial stage. 
In Poland, we faced a claim ﬁled by three 
prisoners in April 2008, in response to which 
we ﬁled a defence. The statement of claim was
subsequently withdrawn in September 2008, 
and the court has discontinued the proceedings.
We understand that a claim was ﬁled against 
us (and other tobacco companies) in Bulgaria 
in March 2008 but we have not yet been formally
served with any court documents. Despite threats
to do so, no proceedings have been commenced
against us in The Netherlands.
Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands
in April 2007, we are currently facing three claims
brought by individuals in the United States. Two 
of these claims are brought by prisoners and were
served on Commonwealth Brands in January 2008.
In the ﬁrst prisoner claim the court has dismissed
the case. That dismissal has been appealed, but
Commonwealth Brands believes the appeal was
not ﬁled in time. In the second prisoner claim 
the court has also dismissed the case, but that
judgment could still be appealed. The other 
case is inactive and has been for some time.
Commonwealth Brands has applied to dismiss 
the case. That application remains pending. Two
further claims against Commonwealth Brands have
been dismissed. These dismissals are consistent
with the considerable improvements we have 
seen in the USA litigation environment.
We also understand from media reports that 
the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued legal
proceedings against a number of international
tobacco companies and their ‘agents’ to recover
the costs of providing medical care to individuals. 
It is reported that Imperial Tobacco is one of these
defendants, however, we have not been served
with any court documents to date. To date, no
judgment has been entered against Imperial T obacco
and no action has been settled in favour of a claimant
in any tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial
T obacco or any of its subsidiaries. Imperial T obacco
has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious
defences to the legal proceedings in which damages
are sought for alleged tobacco-related health effects.
We will continue to vigorously contest all such
litigation against us.
The Acquisition of Altadis
Altadis was acquired by way of a public tender 
offer and we did not have access to perform
signiﬁcant due diligence prior to the completion 
of the acquisition. In the event that liabilities 
or other problems concerning Altadis arise, the 
Group has no warranty or indemnity protection. 
While we believe that we have a proven track
record of integrating acquisitions, their success 
is dependent on our ability to integrate without
signiﬁcant disruption to either business. 
The integration of Altadis may involve particular
challenges and require management attention that
would otherwise be devoted to running our business.
We can offer no assurance that we will be able 
to realise the potential beneﬁts of the acquisition 
to the extent envisaged and within the timeframe
contemplated. If we are unable to successfully
integrate Altadis, this could have a negative impact
on the revenue, proﬁt and ﬁnancial condition of 
the enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group.
2008 Update
In June 2008 we announced a number of
restructuring projects in Europe which we propose
to implement progressively over the coming years 
as part of the integration of Imperial Tobacco and
Altadis. The projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support functions 
in a number of markets, and will strengthen 
the enlarged Group’s competitive position 
by addressing over-capacity and improving
efﬁciencies. Consultations have been concluded 
in several markets, enabling the implementation 
of projects to begin. Elsewhere, consultations are
ongoing and are being conducted in a constructive
and productive manner.
Financing
The Group has signiﬁcant borrowings which 
may impair operational and ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and
performance. The Group’s indebtedness could
potentially cause Imperial Tobacco to dedicate 
a substantial portion of cash ﬂow from operations
to payments to service debt, depending on the
level of borrowings, prevailing interest rates and
exchange rate ﬂuctuations, which would reduce 
the funds available to the Group for working 
capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends,
and other general corporate purposes.
It could also limit the Group’s ability to borrow
additional funds for these purposes and limit
ﬂexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes 
in technology, customer demand, competitive
pressures and the industry in which the Group
operates. This could place the Group at a
competitive disadvantage compared to its
competitors that are less leveraged, and increase
our vulnerability to both general and industry-
speciﬁc adverse economic conditions. Our credit
ratings may be adversely affected by various
factors if this happens and/or if conditions in 
credit markets are unfavourable at a time when 
we are looking to reﬁnance our current sources 
of ﬁnancing, we may not be able to obtain new
sources of ﬁnancing or only at higher costs. 
2008 Update
Following the completion of a rights issue, our
reported net debt was £11.7 billion, as at 30
September 2008. In September we had issued
new capital market debt equating to 8 per cent 
of our committed ﬁnancing at a rate above our
overall cost of debt, which remained stable 
at 5.5 per cent.  In this section:
United Kingdom 26
Germany 27
Spain 28
Rest of EU 29
Americas 30
Rest of the World 31
Manufacturing 32
Logistics 33
Corporate Responsibility 35
Operating Review United Kingdom
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Market Dynamics
We estimate that the duty paid cigarette
market declined by 5 per cent to 
45.5 billion cigarettes in the year (2007: 
47.9 billion). 
We estimate that 2-3 per cent of the
decline was attributable to the smoking
bans introduced in England, Wales and
Northern Ireland in 2007, with the balance
due to normal long-term decline. 
In contrast, market volumes of duty paid
ﬁne cut tobacco rose by an estimated 
7 per cent to 3,750 tonnes during the 
year (2007: 3,500 tonnes).
From 1 October 2008, all tobacco
products manufactured for sale in the UK
must have a pictorial health warning on 
the reverse of the pack, although there is 
a sell-through period for products without
these warnings of 12 months for cigarettes
and 24 months for ﬁne cut tobacco. 
Our Performance
In the UK, net revenue was £869 million,
with adjusted proﬁt from operations of
£584 million.
We lead the UK market in cigarette, ﬁne
cut tobacco and rolling papers. We have 
a 45.9 per cent cigarette market share, 
led by Lambert & Butler at 16.2 per cent
(2007: 16.6 per cent) and Richmond 
at 16.1 per cent (2007: 15.7 per cent), 
the two best-selling cigarette brands 
in the country.
Our value offering, Windsor Blue, 
had another successful year, increasing 
its market share to 3 per cent (2007: 
2.6 per cent). 
Value brands and products are growing in
many mature markets, particularly those
with high taxation as consumers continue
to downtrade in search of value, and the
UK is no exception. 
Downtrading is likely to continue in the
current economic climate and to capitalise
on this we launched the JPS Silver range
in the economy sector in November 2008.
Our ﬁne cut tobacco market share
declined to 61.6 per cent (2007: 
63.6 per cent), with our market leading 
premium brand, Golden Virginia, declining
due to downtrading. However, we
continued to improve the share of our
value brand, Gold Leaf, which is now 
up to 2.6 per cent.
Rizla, the world’s leading rolling paper
brand and number one in the UK,
delivered another strong performance 
in the year.
Outlook 
The UK is an important market and 
one where we remain focused on
strengthening our leadership position.
We expect a more normal rate of decline 
in duty paid cigarette volumes in the
coming year and further growth in duty
paid ﬁne cut tobacco volumes. 
The portfolio initiatives we have taken 
in recent years have continued to build 
our position at the value end of both
cigarette and ﬁne cut tobacco, leaving 
us well placed to capitalise on the
downtrading trend. 
Regulation continues to increase but 
we are very experienced at successfully
managing the impact on our business.
In our response to the Department of
Health consultation document on the
future of tobacco control, we took the 
opportunity to reiterate our support for
initiatives to reduce youth smoking and
illicit trade. 
We robustly opposed a number of
proposals which we consider to be
unnecessary and disproportionate,
including proposals to ban product 
display, vending sales and 10 packs. 
The Department of Health is expected 
to publish a summary of all the responses
received by 8 December 2008. Further
information is available on our website:
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
£869m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
21.4bn No.1
in the UK
Cigarette Volumes
£584m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
2,350t No.1
in the UK
Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes
Market Size 
2008 2007
Cigarette
1
45.5bn 47.9bn
Fine cut tobacco
1
3,750t 3,500t
Market Share
2008 2007
Cigarette
1
45.9% 46.4%
Fine cut tobacco
1
61.6% 63.6%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
UK: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations %
28
UK
Rest of
Tobacco www.imperial-tobacco.com 27
Germany
www.imperial-tobacco.com 27
Market Dynamics
In Germany, duty paid cigarette volumes
have declined by an estimated 3 per 
cent to just under 88 billion cigarettes
(2007: 91 billion). 
This was largely inﬂuenced by the
introduction of public smoking restrictions
in all states. These restrictions have
recently eased in some states following 
a court ruling that some aspects of the
legislation were unconstitutional.
Downtrading remains a key dynamic, 
with the value price sector share now up
to 24 per cent of factory made cigarettes
(2007: 19 per cent).
Private label’s cigarette share continues 
to fall, now down to 11.3 per cent 
(2007: 12.5 per cent).
The level of both legal and illegal cross-
border ﬂows reduced slightly to an
estimated 20 per cent during the year 
but still remains a signiﬁcant problem.
Other tobacco product volumes fell by an
estimated 5 per cent to 34 billion cigarette
equivalents (2007: 36 billion). This was
largely due to a 24 per cent decline in 
eco-cigarillos as a result of legal changes
to the product speciﬁcations coming into
effect from January 2008. 
Our Performance
In Germany, net revenue was £664 million,
with adjusted proﬁt from operations up 
to £309 million. 
Against a challenging market environment
we delivered a number of good
performances in Germany, including
increasing our cigarette share to 
27.4 per cent.
In recent years JPS has achieved
signiﬁcant success and continued to 
build on its impressive growth record in
2008. JPS now accounts for 7.8 per cent
of the market (2007: 6.4 per cent) and has
become the second best-selling cigarette
brand in Germany.
Our mid-priced brand West continues 
to be impacted by downtrading but 
our premium brand Gauloises Blondes
was resilient in maintaining its share 
at 5.6 per cent.
£664m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
22.9bn No.2
in Germany
Cigarette Volumes
£309m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
6.9bn No.1
in Germany
Other Tobacco Products 
(as cigarette equivalents)
Our market share of other tobacco
products was up to 20 per cent. Both 
JPS and Route 66 made market share
gains to 8.4 and 2.5 per cent respectively
and performed particularly well in the 
make your own sector. 
We continue to manufacture eco-cigarillos
and during the year we improved our share
of this segment to 15.1 per cent.
Outlook
We remain focused on improving 
our competitive position in Germany 
and further developing our strong 
market shares.
We have a broad portfolio which we will
continue to leverage in order to capitalise
on growth opportunities. Our strength in
value brands and products means we are 
well placed to beneﬁt from downtrading,
both within cigarette and from cigarette
into other tobacco products, whilst
continuing to support our key brands,
such as West and Gauloises Blondes.
The market environment is evolving and
we will continue to monitor cross-border
inﬂows and participate in the ongoing
debate regarding restrictions on smoking
in public places.
Germany: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations %
15
Germany
Rest of
Tobacco
Market Size 
2008 2007
Cigarette
1
88bn 91bn
Other tobacco products
1 2
34bn 36bn
Market Share
2008 2008 2008 2007
Enlarged Group Altadis Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco
Cigarette
1
27.4% 5.8% 21.6% 21.3%
Other tobacco 
products
1
20.0% 0.6% 19.4% 19.1%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2
As cigarette equivalents. 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
Market Dynamics
Spain is a key market for the enlarged
Group.
Tobacco sales are through two distinct
channels – tobacconists, who account 
for two thirds of volumes, and vending
machines which account for the balance.
During the year market volumes of duty
paid cigarettes remained stable at an
estimated 90 billion, while volumes of 
ﬁne cut tobacco have seen signiﬁcant
growth to approximately 3,600 tonnes
(2007: 2,800 tonnes).
The cigar market was up 5 per cent 
to around 1.1 billion units.
Volumes of large and medium-sized cigars
have declined following the introduction 
of smoking restrictions, although this has
been more than offset by the growth 
in volumes of small cigars. 
Our Performance
In Spain, net revenue was £411 million 
and adjusted proﬁt from operations 
was £150 million.
Our position in Spain has been signiﬁcantly
enhanced following the acquisition of
Altadis, and we now have a market leading
position across all tobacco categories.
Our cigarette market share was 37.1 per
cent (2007: 5.9 per cent) with Fortuna, 
a mid-price offering and the second best-
selling cigarette brand in Spain, broadly
maintaining its share at 12.1 per cent. 
Nobel, also in the mid-price sector, and
our value brand Ducados Rubio performed
well in the year, growing their shares 
to 6.1 and 4.9 per cent respectively. 
Our ﬁne cut tobacco market share has
declined to 49.1 per cent as a result of
competition and downtrading, which we
have taken steps to address with the price
repositioning of Golden Virginia and Drum
during the year.
Our cigar market share, including Habanos
brands, is at 36.8 per cent, mainly driven
by three brands: Farias, Vegaﬁna and Dux. 
All three brand families are building on 
a broad and loyal consumer base and 
are represented across all the different
sub-segments. 
With Farias we are number one in both
large and miniature cigars, whilst Vegaﬁna
is the leading non-Habanos premium
brand and Dux is number two in the
medium-sized segment.
Outlook
Our broad brand and product portfolio
gives us the opportunity to enhance 
our market leading positions, which 
we will support by improving our sales 
and trade focus.
As part of the integration of Altadis and
Imperial Tobacco, we plan to improve our
sales effectiveness and customer service
by combining the three sales forces of
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis cigarettes
and Altadis cigars into one uniﬁed team. 
We will also optimise the visibility of 
our brands and point of sale activities 
at tobacconists and increase our 
presence in the vending channel.
We launched a new Fortuna pack design
in the year which was well received 
by consumers and we are focused 
on developing further innovative 
packaging initiatives for our products. 
We will also seek to build on our leading
cigar position, particularly in the growing
miniature cigars segment.
£411m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
22.9bn No.1
in Spain
Cigarette Volumes
£150m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
1,550t No.1
in Spain
Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes
Spain
Market Size 
2008 2007
Cigarette
1
90bn 90bn
Fine cut tobacco
1
3,600t 2,800t
Market Share
2008 2008 2008 2007
Enlarged Group Altadis Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco
Cigarette
1
37.1% 31.9% 5.2% 5.9%
Fine cut tobacco
1
49.1% 2.2% 46.9% 53.2%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates. Full Year 2007 ﬁgures adjusted for divestments.
Spain: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations %
7
Spain
Rest of
Tobacco www.imperial-tobacco.com 29
Rest of EU
Market Dynamics
We have replaced our Rest of Western
Europe region with the Rest of EU, which
for our purposes includes some non-EU
countries which we have incorporated 
on the grounds of geographic proximity. 
In the region as a whole, we estimate 
that cigarette market volumes declined 
by 3 per cent to 382 billion cigarettes. 
Regional ﬁne cut tobacco volumes 
grew by 1 per cent to an estimated 
34,000 tonnes.
Our Performance
In the Rest of EU, net revenue was 
£1,250 million and adjusted proﬁt from
operations was £494 million.
France is a key market for us in this region
and one where the Altadis acquisition has
signiﬁcantly increased our cigarette share,
now up to 29.3 per cent with gains from
JPS, Gauloises Blondes, News and
Fortuna. We are the leader in the French
cigar market with a 23.5 per cent share. 
We delivered a good performance in
Poland, growing Route 66 and West, while
JPS and Fortuna improved our position 
in Belgium. JPS also helped to increase
our share in The Netherlands and we
achieved further strong growth from
Davidoff in Greece, where our cigarette
share is now up to 10.9 per cent.
The regional ﬁne cut tobacco market
remains extremely competitive. In The
Netherlands, by far the largest regional
market, our share was at 50.7 per cent
with both our value brands, Zilver and
Evergreen, making gains. 
In Hungary, we have captured 40.6 per 
cent of the rapidly growing ﬁne cut tobacco
market and our share in the Czech
Republic increased signiﬁcantly to 51.8 
per cent, driven by strong growth in our
Paramount brand.
Outlook
We expect further modest declines in
regional cigarette market volumes and
continued growth in ﬁne cut tobacco
market volumes. 
Our versatile portfolio provides a number
of growth opportunities. We remain
focused on further improving our cigarette
position, delivering growth across the
pricing spectrum, and see considerable
scope for building on our growing ﬁne 
cut tobacco market shares in a number 
of accession countries. 
£1,250m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
56.8bn
Cigarette Volumes
£494m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
14,300t
Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes
Market Size 
2008 2007
Cigarette
1 
382bn 391bn
Fine cut tobacco
1
34,000t 33,650t
Cigarette Market Shares
1
2008 2008 2008 2007
Enlarged Group Altadis Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco
Belgium 16.5% 6.1% 10.4% 10.6%
Czech Republic 12.2% 0.3% 11.9% 12.0%
France 29.3% 24.8% 4.5% 4.0%
Greece 10.9% 0.6% 10.3% 9.7%
Hungary 12.6% 0.3% 12.3% 13.2%
Ireland 26.6% 0.0% 26.6% 26.4%
Italy 2.7% 1.5% 1.2% 1.3%
Netherlands 13.5% 2.1% 11.4% 10.6%
Poland 25.1% 7.6% 17.5% 16.9%
Fine Cut Tobacco Market Shares
1
2008 2008 2008 2007
Enlarged Group Altadis Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco
Belgium 11.9% 3.1% 8.8% 8.8%
Czech Republic 51.8% 0.0% 51.8% 27.7%
France 24.4% 13.2% 11.2% 11.4%
Greece 41.9% 0.0% 41.9% 43.8%
Hungary 40.6% 0.0% 40.6% 28.7%
Ireland 64.0% 0.0% 64.0% 65.6%
Italy 46.7% 3.2% 43.5% 47.7%
Netherlands 50.7% 0.2% 50.5% 50.6%
Poland 2.0% 0.0% 2.0% 2.1%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates. Full Year 2007 ﬁgures adjusted for divestments.
Rest of EU: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations %
23 Rest of EU
Rest of
Tobacco 30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Americas
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
Market Dynamics
The Americas is a major growth area 
for us as we continue to focus on 
building our geographic footprint 
in these profitable markets. 
Currently, the main focus of our operations
is the USA where we estimate that the
overall cigarette market declined by 
4 per cent to 351 billion cigarettes during 
the year. The discount segment remained
broadly stable and accounts for around 
27 per cent of the total cigarette market. 
In ﬁne cut tobacco, we estimate 
market volumes grew by 5 per cent 
to 9,100 tonnes as a result of further
downtrading from cigarettes. 
Sales of cigars have been generally
affected by the economic slowdown 
and public smoking restrictions,
particularly in the premium segment,
although this is being offset by positive
trends in the smaller sizes.
In the USA, further tobacco tax increases
are expected in 2009 and we continue 
to monitor the ongoing debate around 
the potential for the Food & Drug
Administration to assume responsibility 
for tobacco regulation.
Our growing Americas proﬁle also includes
a small presence in Mexico and Canada,
where we launched Davidoff in 2007, and
Argentina, where we gained our position
through the Altadis acquisition.
Our Performance
Net revenue in the year was £542 million,
with adjusted proﬁt from operations of
£166 million. 
Our USA cigarette volumes were 
14.2 billion, with our cigarette share up 
to 4.3 per cent of the total market and
14.2 per cent of the discount segment.
Both our key discount brands, USA 
Gold at 2.6 per cent and Sonoma at 
1.6 per cent, grew share. 
Having established a secure footing in 
the value end of the cigarette market, 
we have taken steps to expand our
portfolio, launching Davidoff, initially 
in ten cities, and Fortuna in Florida and
Texas, with encouraging early results. 
Our ﬁne cut tobacco volumes continue 
to grow and were up to 600 tonnes 
in the year. 
During the year we launched our own 
ﬁne cut tobacco brand, Premier. The 
acquisition of Lignum 2 added the 
Rave brand to our growing portfolio 
and doubled our market share, which 
was around 8 per cent in September.
In acquiring Altadis, we gained market
leadership, in value terms, in the large
cigar segment with a strong presence 
in all the cigar categories in the USA. 
In challenging market conditions, our
natural wrapper brands of Backwoods
and Dutch Masters performed well
following the introduction of new ﬂavoured
variants and two price increases.
In October 2008, we took up the option 
to acquire the remaining 49 per cent of 
JR Cigars not previously owned by Altadis
as another step towards consolidating 
our market position. The company is 
a nationwide distributor of cigars and
related products.
Outlook
We have made considerable progress in
the short time we have been present in the
USA tobacco market and see attractive
opportunities for expanding our proﬁle. 
Our multi-product portfolio means we 
are well placed to respond swiftly and
efﬁciently to changing market dynamics. 
We also remain focused on improving 
our national distribution capabilities in the
USA and are currently in the process of
expanding our cigarette sales force.
Our ambition is to continue to enhance 
our cigarette presence and build on the
excellent progress we have made in ﬁne
cut tobacco, whilst consolidating our
position in cigar.
£542m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
15.2bn No.4
in the USA
Cigarette Volumes
£166m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
600t No.3
in the USA
Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes
Market Size 
2008 2007
Cigarette – USA
1
351bn 367bn
Fine cut tobacco – USA
1 2
9,100t 8,700t
Market Share
2008 2007
Cigarette – USA
1 3
4.3% 4.0%
Fine cut tobacco – USA
1
5.8% 1.0%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2
USA ﬁne cut tobacco volumes have been restated to exclude pipe tobacco.
3
Our USA cigarette market share estimate in 2007 has been restated to reﬂect a changed basis of calculation.
8
Americas
Rest of
Tobacco
Americas: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations % Rest of the World
www.imperial-tobacco.com 31
Our Rest of the World region contains 
a diverse array of markets which offer
considerable opportunities for growth.
Our Performance
In the Rest of the World, net revenue 
grew to £1,502 million, with adjusted 
proﬁt from operations up to £404 million. 
We had an excellent year in Africa,
increasing our volumes and market 
share in many countries. 
The acquisition of Altadis has enhanced 
our position in this important growth
region, giving us a market leading position
in Morocco, with our key brand Marquise.
Our volumes have also grown strongly 
in Algeria with Gauloises Blondes.
Our performance in the Middle East has
been equally strong, with further volume
and share growth. Gauloises Blondes
is now our largest cigarette brand in 
the region, complemented by Gitanes 
and Davidoff.
Eastern Europe generates 54 per cent of
our Rest of the World cigarette volumes,
predominantly in Russia and the Ukraine. 
In Russia, sales were affected by
destocking, both at the distributor and
wholesale levels, following the merger 
of the two largest tobacco distributors.
In the Ukraine we increased volumes of
our value brand Classic by 55 per cent,
while in Azerbaijan we further built on 
our track record of growth with gains 
from West and Davidoff.
In Asia, our Taiwan share declined as 
a result of increased competition and
downtrading. However, our new cigarette
factory will generate substantial cost
savings and improve our competitiveness 
in this important market. In Vietnam, 
we have strengthened our position with 
a new production and sales joint venture,
and in Laos our A brand generated further
share growth.
Our presence in Asia has been
strengthened as a result of the Altadis
acquisition and we now have a strong
position in Cambodia.
Australia remains extremely competitive,
particularly in the low price cigarette
sector, resulting in a slight fall in our 
market share, although we continue 
to lead the fine cut tobacco market 
with a 61.1 per cent share. 
Outlook
Our primary objective is to build on 
our enhanced footprint by leveraging 
our brand and product portfolios. 
There are many opportunities for us to
develop our business in this region and 
we will particularly focus on maintaining
our growth momentum in Africa, the
Middle East, Eastern Europe and Asia. 
In Africa our strong portfolio of local
brands will continue to drive our volume
and share growth, with growing support
from our international brands. In the
Middle East we will continue to enhance
market share through the development 
of our international brands.
Our cigarette volumes are growing in
Eastern Europe and we remain focused 
on building on our success. 
Our extended geographic reach presents 
a platform to expand the distribution of
Habanos cigar brands, such as Cohiba
and Montecristo, into new markets and 
we see particular growth opportunities 
in Eastern Europe and Asia.
£1,502m
Net Revenue
Performance Highlights
152.6bn
Cigarette Volumes
£404m
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
2,050t
Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes
Cigarette Market Shares
1
2008 2008 2008 2007
Enlarged Group Altadis Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco
Australia 17.2% 0.0% 17.2% 17.5%
Azerbaijan 39.4% 0.0% 39.4% 36.6%
Cambodia 25.6% 25.6% 0.0% 0.0%
Ivory Coast 84.8% 0.1% 84.7% 84.7%
Lebanon 21.1% 17.4% 3.7% 3.3%
Morocco 87.3% 87.3% 0.0% 0.0%
Russia 11.0% 5.5% 5.5% 5.5%
Saudi Arabia 9.7% 0.5% 9.2% 7.0%
Taiwan 9.7% 0.0% 9.7% 11.7%
Turkey 3.2% 0.0% 3.2% 2.5%
Ukraine 21.8% 0.1% 21.7% 20.6%
1
Imperial Tobacco estimates.
RoW: Tobacco 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations %
19
RoW
Rest of
Tobacco Manufacturing
32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
Our manufacturing capabilities now extend
across North America, Europe, Africa, 
the Middle East and Australasia, where 
we produce a broad range of high quality
cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers
and tubes. 
The Altadis acquisition increased our
manufacturing sites from 31 factories to
58. In combining two such large footprints,
there will inevitably be a degree of over-
capacity, and as part of our integration
strategy we proposed closing six sites 
and restructuring a number of others 
in order to address this and improve
operational efficiencies. We have so far
completed the closure of our cigar and 
fine cut tobacco factory in Slovakia and
remain committed to supporting
employees affected by integration.
Our Performance
We have maintained our focus on
simpliﬁcation and standardisation while
managing integration, and have delivered
further operational improvements within
the Imperial Tobacco portfolio. Productivity
improved by 5 per cent and we reduced
overall cigarette unit costs by 3 per cent. 
In addition, the number of blends and
ingredients we use have decreased by 
a further 9 and 6 per cent respectively.
Like Imperial Tobacco, Altadis has
continually reviewed its manufacturing
operations in recent years and has
delivered a steady progression of efﬁciency
enhancements which we will seek to build
on. A key area of focus this year has been
integrating the Altadis supply chain
processes with our own in order to 
benefit from ongoing synergies. 
In October 2008 we obtained the
manufacturing licence for our new factory
in Taiwan and are currently in the final
phase of test production. The factory 
is a state-of-the-art facility with the most
modern technologies available and 
we expect it to be fully operational in 
January 2009. The factory will enable 
us to respond more swiftly to changing
market dynamics and provides a strong
platform for further expansion in the 
Asia-Paciﬁc region.
It is inevitable that rising costs will present
a challenge to our business and in order to
mitigate their impact we continue to focus
on deriving efﬁciencies from our cost base.
The acquisition of Altadis has substantially increased 
our international manufacturing footprint.
Gary Aldridge, Manufacturing Director
Our ongoing programme 
of simplification and
standardisation is 
being applied to the 
Group’s enlarged
manufacturing portfolio.
We are constantly looking at the processes
for controlling and improving our
environmental performance and ISO14001
is an international standard applied to 
our manufacturing bases. This year, we
increased the number of Imperial Tobacco
factories with ISO14001 accreditation 
to 74 per cent (2007: 68 per cent). This
standard is also in place in 12 Altadis
factories and in all the main distribution
centres of our Logistics business. 
Outlook
Our long-term strategy of simpliﬁcation,
standardisation and supply chain
optimisation, whilst maintaining quality,
remains central to the success of our
manufacturing operations. Our focus 
on cost optimisation and efficiency
improvements is being extended across
our enlarged manufacturing portfolio. 
The tobacco industry is evolving and
ﬂexibility is therefore key to our success.
We will ensure that we respond quickly to
changing market dynamics and consumer
preferences, and will continue to deliver
the quality of product necessary to build
upon our strong presence in the
international tobacco markets. Logistics
www.imperial-tobacco.com 33
We are one of the largest distributors of tobacco 
and other products in Europe.
£607m
Distribution Fees
Performance Highlights
Adjusted Proﬁt from Operations
£121m
Our tobacco logistics business is the
largest of its kind in Europe and has in
excess of 90 per cent market share in 
the distribution of tobacco within Spain,
France and Italy. Tobacco logistics 
delivers products for international
manufacturers, including Imperial 
Tobacco, to tobacconists and other 
sales outlets across Southern Europe. 
The business is run on an operationally
neutral basis, providing bespoke solutions
based on our technology, and ensuring
that all customers are treated equally. 
Through our other products activities, 
we manage the full logistics value chain 
of a diverse range of products for clients
including those from the pharmaceutical,
publishing, transportation and
telecommunications industries. 
These range from telephone cards,
stamps, magazines and books, to
promotional items and industrial courier
services. Today, our Logistics division
distributes to around 200,000 outlets
across Europe. These span convenience
stores, tobacconists, bakeries, kiosks,
pharmacies, grocery stores, service
stations and stationers. 
Market Dynamics 
In tobacco logistics, the continued 
gradual decline in the volumes of
cigarettes consumed across Western
Europe requires distributors to focus 
on offering additional services while 
Adjusted Distribution Margin
19.9%
Overview 
The logistics operations acquired 
with Altadis comprised a wholly owned
company in France and a majority stake
in Logista, a publicly traded company
focused on the Spanish, Portuguese
and Italian markets. Both companies
owe their roots to the traditional
distribution activities of previously 
state-owned tobacco manufacturers
that became a part of Altadis. 
Following the acquisition of Altadis,
Spanish takeover law required that we
either reduced our majority shareholding
in Logista to below 30 per cent or made
an offer for those shares not already held
by the Group. We reviewed the overall
logistics business and decided to launch
an offer for the remaining shares, which
was completed at a cost of €925 million
in June 2008. 
The business has a strategy of
expansion through both organic growth
and acquisitions. In the last decade
logistics has diversiﬁed from tobacco
distribution within France and Spain into
new markets and a range of new and
related product groups. As a result, 
our operations are split into two distinct
areas: tobacco and other products.  Logistics continued
34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
improving operating efﬁciencies.
Expansion into additional territories 
is a strategy our Logistics business 
has pursued successfully in Portugal, 
Italy and, more recently, Poland. 
Through the scale and efﬁciency of our
distribution activities we are providing
customers with a range of services they
would ﬁnd difﬁcult to replicate elsewhere. 
The other products logistics business 
has proven successful in identifying 
areas where the growth dynamics are
favourable, such as pharmaceuticals,
books and transportation. 
In transportation, we are one of the largest
business-to-business courier and industrial
parcel delivery operators in Spain, offering
long distance services across Europe. This
has seen attractive growth over the last
ﬁve years, with opportunities for further
growth through diversiﬁcation into related
areas within and beyond Spain. 
Our Performance 
Distribution fees in the eight months 
to September were £607 million, with
adjusted profits from operations of 
£121 million. Our overall performance 
was in line with our expectations.
The good performance of tobacco 
logistics reﬂected a cigarette price increase
in Italy and stable tobacco volumes in
Spain, which offset a decline in French
volumes following the extension of the
public smoking bans in January 2008.
In other products logistics, our traditional
wholesale business performed well in 
a difﬁcult environment. However, our
overall business was affected by continued
weakness in publications and the impact 
of the economic downturn on the
transport business.
Outlook 
The current economic conditions present
challenges for our other products logistics
business but we anticipate a stable
tobacco performance going forward, with
the beneﬁt of cigarette price increases by
tobacco manufacturers compensating for
slight cigarette volume declines.
The Logistics business has grown rapidly
and we see further opportunities both
within the regulated markets of Western
Europe and the unregulated markets 
of Central and Eastern Europe, where
industry consolidation is likely.
Logistics is a proﬁtable and highly cash
generative part of the Group, and our 
long-term strategy is one of continuing 
to enhance service levels to existing
customers whilst looking for opportunities 
to extend our logistics footprint 
into additional countries and 
related other products. 
Our logistics
business is run 
on an operationally
neutral basis,
ensuring that all
customers are
treated equally. Corporate Responsibility
www.imperial-tobacco.com 35
We remain committed to building a sustainable and proﬁtable 
business while behaving responsibly. The principles of corporate 
responsibility are integrated within the Group’s management 
practices and processes.
Responsibly
managing our
business
Conducting our business responsibly 
is fundamental to our future success 
and the sustainability of our business, 
from managing social and environmental
and economic risks and opportunities, 
to responding to external developments
and stakeholder issues.
Our Strategy
The way we approach Corporate
Responsibility (CR) and how it supports
our commercial strategy has developed
over the years. Following a strategic review
of international trends in CR, we identiﬁed
ﬁve key areas of focus with the purpose 
of enhancing our performance over a ﬁve
year horizon, supported by increasing local
participation in managing these issues. 
Our Performance
Progress has been made for each of our
Five-for-Five priorities and across a range
of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance
metrics. 
Five-For-Five Priorities
Carbon Management: we are committed
to further improvements in carbon
management through energy conservation,
the application of lower carbon
technologies and carbon offsetting.
Progress Report: we have identiﬁed the
most signiﬁcant risks and opportunities 
for improvement in our business
operations relating to climate change.
Consultation has commenced with key
stakeholders to consider the potential
impact on our business and assist in 
the deﬁnition of appropriate energy and
carbon dioxide emission reduction targets. 
We are participating in the Carbon
Disclosure Project’s Supply Chain
Leadership Study, to assess climate
change risks and to assist our suppliers 
in managing carbon. Our 2008 submission
to the project resulted in a score of 87 
per cent for our climate change strategy
(sector average 67 per cent).
Portfolio Balance: we are committed 
to further improvements in how we
manage our product portfolio to achieve
an appropriate balance between product
stewardship, regulatory demand and the
needs and preferences of our consumers.
Progress Report: we completed the ﬁrst
phase of this work by identifying a cross-
functional decision-making mechanism to
optimise our product portfolio. As a result,
information system projects are underway
to enable us to better understand how
ingredients link to products, their market
destinations and regulatory requirements
within the enlarged Group.
Supplier Standards: we will 
continue to work with our suppliers 
to improve their economic, social 
and environmental standards.
Highlights
Lost time accident rates reduction 
in 2007
1
20%
Energy consumption reduction 
in 2007
2
18%
CO
2
emissions reduction in 2007
2
26%
1
2007 compared with 2006 (excluding Altadis).
2
Absolute values for ﬁnancial year 2007 compared with
2001 base year (excluding Altadis).  Corporate Responsibility continued
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW
36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Progress Report: the aim of our 
supplier engagement and assessment
programmes is to safeguard future
supplies by managing the social,
environmental and economic aspects of 
our supply chain. Preliminary analysis has
been undertaken to deepen understanding
of reputational risk and the appropriate
standards which need to be promoted
in the supply chain. 
We continue to use the Social
Responsibility in Tobacco Production
programme, in conjunction with our
suppliers. An improvement in overall
performance and a good level of risk
management is generally evident. 
We continue to engage with our leaf
suppliers, and have underlined our
commitment to ﬁnding solutions to 
child labour by increasing our funding 
to the Elimination of Child Labour 
in Tobacco Foundation. 
We continue to include CR-related 
factors in the qualiﬁcation of non-tobacco
material suppliers engaged in business
with the Group.
Local Accountability: we will aim for
accountability through the provision of
training and expertise to ensure a more
effective local response to CR issues.
Progress Report: a suite of educational
materials is being developed to raise
awareness of accountability for CR
throughout the enlarged Group and 
at all levels. This year we have been able
to link CR and Group policies to different
elements of job roles within the business
to enhance this understanding.
Policy Evidence: we are aiming 
to increase transparency that our 
policies and standards are routinely 
and universally observed.
Progress Report: we have created a single
reference point on our corporate intranet
to communicate the requirements of our
policies to employees. We have also taken
steps to support the alignment of policies
with working practice, and completed 
a project to help improve the clarity of
purpose of our corporate documents 
and how they are interconnected.
Non-Financial Objectives
In the phased implementation of projects
related to our key strategic objectives 
we continue our work in the social 
and environmental areas important 
to our business. 
a high priority. The Board has reiterated its
commitment to continuous improvement
by leading an initiative to reinvigorate 
OHS to coincide with organisational
changes within the enlarged Group.
Environmental Management: we remain
committed to minimising the adverse
impact of our activities on the natural
environment. Our environmental
performance shows a downward
movement in energy consumption and
carbon dioxide emissions. Since 2004, 
we have reduced waste from our factories
and main ofﬁces by 9 per cent and we
send 62 per cent less waste to landﬁlls.
Water use by our factories and main
ofﬁces has decreased by 8 per cent 
since 2001. 
Community Investment: we have invested
£2.4 million in our community activities,
through international and local partnership
projects, charitable giving and matching
employee fundraising. We were delighted
to receive the Charity Aid Foundation
Community Investment Award 2007 
in recognition of our commitment 
to sustainable funding of charities.
Integration
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis have taken
similar approaches to CR. This close
alignment has enabled us to swiftly and
effectively plan implementation of our
systems across the enlarged Group,
including various social and environmental
due diligence activities, our non-ﬁnancial
reporting system, the Social Responsibility
in Tobacco Production programme, and
community investment activities.
Following the announcement of proposed
integration projects in June 2008, we 
have been actively consulting with our
employees, trade unions, work councils
and other organisations. We remain
focused on providing those affected 
by integration with a comprehensive 
range of support measures.
Further detailed information on our
performance can be found in our
Corporate Responsibility Review which 
is published in December and which
includes an independent veriﬁer’s
statement provided by SGS United
Kingdom Limited on the accuracy and
reliability of our corporate responsibility
performance reporting.
Product Stewardship: we have 
invested further in better understanding 
our products, assessing materials 
for suitability, evaluating scientiﬁc
developments in tobacco and health, 
and complying with all voluntary
agreements, legal and regulatory
requirements.
Sales and Marketing: we remain
committed to promoting and selling 
our tobacco and paper products
responsibly, applying our International
Marketing Standards (IMS) as the
minimum and directing our products 
only to adult consumers. The IMS has
undergone extensive review to ensure 
it continues to be ﬁt for purpose for 
the enlarged Group.
Employment Practices: our Business
Principles and employment policies set 
out a framework of practices to ensure 
our people are treated with fairness,
dignity and respect, in line with universally
accepted standards for human rights. We
continue to invest in our people through
our international career management,
leadership and development programmes,
as well as through ongoing local training
and development initiatives within our
markets and factories.
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS):
the safety and well-being of our employees
and those who work with us remain 
Benchmarks
Ranking in Business in the
Community CR Index 2007
Gold
Class distinction in Sustainability
Asset Management ‘Sustainability
Yearbook 2008’
Bronze
SAM Research for Dow Jones
Sustainability Index 2008
(sector average 69%)
74% Governance
In this section:
Board of Directors 38
Chief Executive’s Committee 40
Report of the Directors 41
Corporate Governance Report 44
Directors’ Remuneration Report 55 38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
123 4 56 7
1. Iain Napier, FCMA
Chairman, 59
Appointed Chairman in January 2007. 
Non-Executive Director from March 2000.
Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC,
Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass
Brewers and Bass International Brewers. He was 
then Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew SA
until August 2001. He was Chief Executive of Taylor
Woodrow International Housing and Development from
2001 to 2005, and was previously Director of Tomkins
PLC until December 2007.
Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and a Non-
Executive Director of Collins Stewart PLC, and was
appointed to the Boards of Molson Coors Brewing
Company and John Menzies plc during the year.
2. Gareth Davis, BA
Chief Executive, 58
Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Gareth led the successful demerger from Hanson 
and subsequent listings on the London and New York
Stock Exchanges. With 36 years experience across 
all aspects of the Company, he has played a key role 
in the development and execution of the Group’s
strategy and its development into one of the world’s
leading multinational tobacco businesses.
Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003.
Senior Independent Director, Wolseley plc since 2004.
3. Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA
Finance Director, 56
Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco
Limited from November 1989 and one of the 
three-man Hanson team involved in the strategic
reorganisation of the Group. Since then he has 
played an integral part in shaping the strategic 
direction of the Group.
No external Director appointments.
4. Graham Blashill, BSC
Group Sales and Marketing Director, 61
Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing
activities. With over 40 years’ experience with the
Group he has held a number of senior sales and
marketing positions, including Managing Director 
UK and Regional Director for Western Europe.
No external Director appointments.
5. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA
Corporate Development Director, 42
Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Alison has responsibility for strategic planning 
and business development, Corporate Affairs and,
currently, the process of integration of the Altadis
business into the enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group.
Alison joined the Group in 1999 and has held a number
of senior roles including Director of Finance and
Planning and Regional Director, Western Europe.
Previously she was with PricewaterhouseCoopers.
No external Director appointments.
6. Jean-Dominique Comolli
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, 60
Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in July 2008.
Nominations Committee.
Jean-Dominique has held a number of senior positions
in the French Civil Service including Assistant Principal
Private Secretary to the Minister of the Economy 
and Principal Private Secretary to the Budget Minister,
before his appointment as Director General of Customs
at the Budget Ministry in 1989. In 1993 he was
appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of SEITA 
and in 1999 appointed as Co-Chairman of the Altadis
Group, a position he held until 2005, when he was
appointed Chairman of Altadis.
Non-Executive Director of Pernod-Ricard, Non-
Executive Director of Calyon and Non-Executive
Director of Public Establishment of Opéra Comique.
Name
Title & age
Appointment
Committee membership
Skills and experience
External appointments
Name
Title & age
Appointment
Committee membership
Skills and experience
External appointments
Name
Title & age
Appointment
Committee membership
Skills and experience
External appointments
Board of 
Directors
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE www.imperial-tobacco.com 39
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
7. Pierre Jungels, CBE (HON), C ENG, PHD
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 64
Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2002.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
Member of the Nominations Committee and the 
Audit Committee.
Pierre has held numerous senior international 
positions within the oil industry with Shell International,
Petroﬁna SA and British Gas PLC. He became CEO 
of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the business to
substantial geographic and financial growth until
retirement in November 2001.
Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director 
of Baker Hughes Inc., Chairman of Rockhopper
Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director 
of Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
8. Bruno Bich
Non-Executive Director, 62
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2008.
Nominations Committee.
Bruno is Non-Executive Chairman of the BIC Group,
having been appointed as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer in June 1993. Prior to his
appointment as BIC Group Chairman, Bruno 
held a number of key corporate positions including
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BIC
Corporation, Vice President of Sales and Marketing 
and National Sales Manager. Bruno was a Non-
Executive Director of Altadis, S.A. having been
appointed in November 1999.
Non-Executive Chairman of Société Bic.
9. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD
Non-Executive Director, 56
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Nominations Committee.
Ken was President, Asia Paciﬁc of Allied Domecq from
1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior
management positions in the Asia Paciﬁc region 
with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers 
& Vintners Ltd (now part of Diageo plc).
No external Director appointments.
10. Michael Herlihy, MA, (Oxon), Solicitor 
Non-Executive Director, 55
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and
Remuneration Committee.
Michael was formerly General Counsel and Head 
of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall
responsibility for corporate acquisitions and
divestments and has extensive experience of both
private and public market transactions.
Serves on the Board of Compass Partners
International LLP .
11. Charles Knott, FCMA
Non-Executive Director, 53
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and
Remuneration Committee.
Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007,
Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International,
ICI’s ﬂavours and fragrances business. Previously
fulﬁlled a variety of international assignments as 
a long-term executive at National Starch, a Unilever
company until 1997. Currently, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of Flint Group.
No external Director appointments.
12. Susan Murray
Non-Executive Director, 51
Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and
Remuneration Committee.
Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited
from October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as 
Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited. Prior 
to this she was worldwide President and Chief
Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, a part 
of Diageo plc. Susan is also a former Non-Executive
Director of SSL International plc and of Aberdeen 
Asset Management PLC. 
Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, Wm
Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group PLC.
Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and council
member of the Advertising Standards Authority. 
13. Berge Setrakian
Non-Executive Director, 59
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Nominations Committee.
Berge is a senior partner in the law ﬁrm Dewey 
& LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive expertise in
international transactions. He was a Non-Executive
Director of Altadis, S.A. having been appointed in May
2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Investcom, 
a telecommunications company which was acquired in
2006 by MTN, a Johannesburg-based company. Berge
is currently the Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU,
the largest philanthropic Armenian organisation in the
world. He also serves as a Non-Executive Director 
on various not-for-proﬁt organisations.
Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New York,
Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive
Director of The Morganti Group, Inc.
14. Mark Williamson, CA (SA) 
Non-Executive Director, 50
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Chairman of Audit Committee; Member of the
Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Mark has considerable international ﬁnancial and
general management experience. He joined
International Power in 2000 as Group Financial
Controller and was appointed to the Board as Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer in 2003. Previously, he was Group
Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at
Simon Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals
storage group.
Serves on the Board of International Power plc.
15. Matthew Phillips, LLB
Company Secretary, 38
Appointed Company Secretary in October 2004.
Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary 
to and Member of the Chief Executive’s Committee;
Secretary to the Audit, Nominations and
Remuneration Committees.
Matthew joined Imperial Tobacco’s legal department 
in 2000 and was closely involved in the acquisitions 
of Reemtsma and Altadis. Previously he worked for 
law ﬁrms Linklaters and Burges Salmon.
No external Director appointments. Chief
Executive’s
Committee
DIRECTORS’ REPORT:GOVERNANCE
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
3. Kathryn Turner
Group Human Resources Director, 53
Appointed Group Human Resources Director in 2002.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Kathryn is responsible for all aspects of human
resource management across the Group. She joined 
in 2002 from Somerfield PLC, where she was 
a member of the PLC Board. She has also held 
a number of senior operational consulting roles 
in change management in the FMCG sector.
No external Director appointments.
1. Gary Aldridge, MBA
Manufacturing Director, 55
Appointed Manufacturing Director in January 2008.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Gary was Regional Operations Director Far East,
Eastern Europe, Africa and Middle East. Previously, 
he was Director of Operations, Central and Eastern
Europe. He held a number of senior manufacturing
roles in RJ Reynolds International before joining
Reemtsma in 2001.
No external Director appointments.
2. Fernando Domínguez, IE
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Cigar Business Unit, 49
Appointed Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Cigar Business Unit
in June 2008.
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Fernando is Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Cigar, responsible
for the Cigar Business of the Imperial Tobacco Group.
With an industrial engineering background he joined
Tabacalera in 1985. Fernando has held numerous
senior positions within both Tabacalera and the 
Altadis Group, mainly in the Cigar Division. He was 
Co-chairman at Corporación Habanos, S.A. before 
his appointment as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Cigar
Business Unit in May 2005.
No external Director appointments.
12 3
Name
Title & age
Appointment
Committee membership
Skills and experience
External appointments
Name
Title & age
Appointment
Committee membership
Skills and experience
External appointments DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Report of the Directors 
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 41
The Directors submit their report together with the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the Group and the accounts 
of the Company for the year to 30 September 2008. 
Business Review 
Following the acquisition of Altadis, the enlarged Group now  
tobacco segment comprises the manufacture, marketing and 
sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. The logistics 
segment comprises the distribution of tobacco products for 
major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as 
well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services. 
A review of the Group’s activities and future developments  
is included in the Business Review section on pages 5 to 36.  
This review fulfils the requirements of the Business Review 
contained in section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, including 
the financial performance during the year on pages 8 to 11,  
key performance indicators on page 17 and a description of  
the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group on pages 
22 to 24. The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide 
information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. 
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do 
not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom 
this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and 
any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. The 
Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of 
the Company and the Imperial Tobacco group as a whole. By 
their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future 
events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ 
materially from those anticipated and no reliance should be 
placed on them. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation  
of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown 
on pages 131 and 132. 
Financial Results and Dividends 
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the 
financial year was £428 million as shown in the consolidated 
income statement set out on page 74. Note 1 to the financial 
statements gives an analysis of revenue, duty and similar items, 
profit from operations and net assets. 
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: 
In £s million 2008 2007
Ordinary Shares  
Interim paid, 20.9p
1
 per share  
(2007: 18.2p
1
) 161 141
Proposed final, 42.2p per share  
(2007: 42.2p
1
) 427 326
Total ordinary dividends, 
63.1 p
  
(2007: 60.4p
1
) 588 467
1  
per share for 2008 has been similarly adjusted. 
The full year dividend distribution of £588 million represents  
an increase of 26 per cent on 2007 and a payment ratio of  
50.7 per cent of the Company’s adjusted attributable profit  
of £1,159 million for the year. 
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 20 February 2009 
to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members  
at the close of business on 23 January 2009. The associated  
ex-dividend date is 21 January 2009. The interim dividend was 
paid on 8 August 2008 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 6 June 2008. 
Share Capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital are shown in note 20 to 
the financial statements. All shares are freely transferrable and 
rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights. At the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 29 January 2008 shareholder 
authority for the buyback of up to 72,900,000 ordinary shares of 
10 pence each was renewed. The Company holds 51,717,000 
ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group 
PLC, representing 4.84 per cent of issued share capital with an 
aggregate nominal value of £5,171,700. These shares have not 
been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve within 
the profit and loss account reserve and represent a deduction 
from equity shareholders’ funds. These treasury shares do not 
carry any voting rights or rights to dividends. The share buyback 
programme was suspended on 8 February 2007. 
At an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) on 13 August 2007, 
the Company’s authorised share capital was increased from 
1,000,000,000 to 56,040,000,000 by the creation of an 
additional 55,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.  
As a result of the Rights Issue in June 2008 the Company  
issued an additional 338,741,960 shares at a price of  
1475 pence per share. 
At 26 November 2008 the Company had been notified that the 
following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the 
Company’s issued share capital. 
 
Number 
of ordinary 
shares millions
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
Invesco Limited 61 6.03
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 50 4.94
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & 
Strauss Inc 45 4.43
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04
Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Limited 41 3.99
Barclays PLC 37 3.66
The Company has not received notification that any other person 
holds 3 per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital. 
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any 
connected persons are shown on page 61. 
Statement on Corporate Governance 
The required disclosures are contained within the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 44 to 54.  
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, 
Directors are appointed by the Board. They must, however, 
submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM 
following their appointment. The powers of the Directors are 
contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, changes to 
which require approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. 
Contracts with Employees or Directors 
Other than disclosed on page 69 there are no agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or employees  
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment  
due to a takeover.  
has two main business activities: Tobacco and Logistics. The 
Comparatives reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue in June 2008. The interim dividend 
er share  p DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 42 
Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter  
or Terminate on Change of Control 
The following agreements are those agreements which the 
Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole 
and which contain provisions giving the other party a specific 
right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change  
of control following a takeover bid. 
Certain members of the Group entered into a credit facilities 
agreement on 18 July 2007 under which certain banks and 
financial institutions made available to Imperial Tobacco Finance 
PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited committed 
and uncommitted credit facilities. The credit facilities agreement 
provides that, unless the lenders thereunder otherwise agree,  
in the event of any person or group of associated persons 
acquiring the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the  
votes exercisable at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial 
Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance 
Limited must repay each advance utilised by it under the credit 
facilities agreement and the total commitments under the credit 
facilities agreement will be immediately cancelled.  
Certain members of the Group entered into a letter of credit 
facility agreement dated 12 December 2007 under which  
certain banks and financial institutions made available to  
Imperial Tobacco Limited a letter of credit facility. The letter  
of credit facility agreement provides that, unless the lenders 
thereunder otherwise agree, in the event of any person or group 
of associated persons acquiring the right to exercise more than  
50 per cent of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of the 
Company, Imperial Tobacco Limited must repay each credit 
utilised by it under the letter of credit facility agreement and the 
total commitments under the letter of credit facility agreement  
will be immediately cancelled. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC issued on 15 September 2008 
£600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed notes due 2024 under 
the €10,000,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme. The Company 
acted as guarantor. The applicable final terms of this series of 
notes contains change of control provisions pursuant to which 
the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier exercise by  
the issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the issuer to 
purchase of) that note at its nominal value if: (a) any person (or, 
subject to customary exceptions, any persons acting in concert 
or any person or persons acting on behalf of any such person(s)) 
becomes interested in: (i) more than 50 per cent of the issued  
or allotted ordinary share capital of the Company; or (ii) such 
number of shares in the capital of the Company carrying more 
than 50 per cent of the voting rights normally exercisable at a 
general meeting of the Company; and (b) as a result (in whole or 
in part) of the change of control, there is either: (i) a reduction in 
or withdrawal of the investment grade credit rating of the notes 
during the change of control period specified in the final terms;  
or (ii) to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the 
change of control, the issuer fails to obtain an investment grade 
credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as  
a result (in whole or in part) of the change of control. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC issued on 15 September 2008 
€750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed notes due 2014 under 
the €10,000,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme. The Company 
acted as guarantor. The change of control provisions in the 
applicable final terms of this series of notes are the same as 
those mentioned in the above paragraph in respect of the 
£600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed notes due 2024. 
Board of Directors 
Mr B F Bich joined the Board on 25 April 2008 as a Non-Executive 
Director. Mr B Setrakian joined the Board on 25 June 2008  
as a Non-Executive Director and Mr J-D Comolli joined the  
Board on 15 July 2008 as a Non-Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman. Mr Comolli also provides certain consultancy services 
to the Group. 
The Directors of the Company for the year to 30 September  
2008 are shown on pages 38 and 39. Messrs G L Blashill and  
P H Jungels retire at the Annual General Meeting and being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. As part of the Board 
Evaluation Process the contributions to the Board of Messrs  
G L Blashill and P H Jungels were assessed and the Board 
confirms that they continue to be effective Directors. Messrs  
J-D Comolli, B F Bich and B Setrakian, having been appointed 
during the year, retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer 
themselves for election. 
Messrs D Cresswell and A G L Alexander retired from the Board 
on 31 December 2007 and 29 January 2008 respectively.  
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity 
arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and 
scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements in respect of the 
Companies Act 1985. 
Employees 
train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this  
can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities and  
fair consideration to applications for employment, career 
development and promotion regardless of gender, race, religion, 
age or disability. These policies also cover the continuation of 
employment and appropriate training for employees who become 
disabled during their period of employment. 
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers 
competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, 
links rewards to individual and team performance. Employees are 
encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares. A further opportunity to 
join the Sharesave Plan was offered during the year and 32 per 
cent of eligible employees around the world now participate. 
The Group is committed to providing an environment that 
encourages the continuous development of all its employees 
through skills enhancement and training programmes. 
Using their own consultative and communication methods  
each of the Group’s businesses is encouraged to keep  
its employees informed on Group and individual business 
developments and to make its employees aware of the financial 
and economic factors affecting the performance of their 
employing company. To progress this aim further, employee 
representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through  
a European Employee Forum and through CEEGA, the Altadis 
European Works Council. The Group’s financial results and 
important initiatives are communicated through a number of 
mechanisms including company magazines, electronic updates, 
presentations, face to face briefings and the Group’s Intranet. 
Information concerning employees and their remuneration  
is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
 
The Group’s employment policies are designed to attract, retain, 
redeem or, at the issuer s option, purchase (or procure the ’
Report of the Directors continued www.imperial-tobacco.com 43
Charitable and Political Donations 
During the year the Group made charitable donations of  
£3.0 million of which £0.2 million was in respect of the UK  
(2007: £2.0 million, of which £0.2 million was in respect of the 
UK), much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid 
Foundation in accordance with the Group’s charities policy. 
As in the previous financial year, no political donations were 
made by the Imperial Tobacco Group to EU political parties, 
organisations or candidates. 
Since its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco in April 2007 and in  
line with its long-standing practice, Commonwealth Brands has 
made corporate donations totalling in aggregate US$ 97,000  
to candidates and political parties in the USA States of Florida, 
Texas and Mississippi. Commonwealth Brands has not made  
any corporate donations at a federal level.  
Since 1 October 2008, Commonwealth Brands has adopted 
Imperial Tobacco Group s long-standing policy of not making 
contributions to any political party, organisation or candidates. 
Since its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco in January 2008, neither 
Altadis USA nor its subsidiaries have made, and will not make, 
any corporate donations to political candidates or parties at either 
a state or federal level. 
Creditor Payment Policy 
The Company’s current policy concerning the payment of  
the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBI’s Prompt 
Payers Code (copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 
103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU). For other 
suppliers, the Company’s policy is to: 
> agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction; 
> ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of 
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and 
> pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal 
obligations. 
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for 
revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without 
exception. Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same 
policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt 
similar policies, by applying local best practices. 
The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2008 
was equivalent to 46 days (2007: 30 days) of trade purchases. 
Research and Development 
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research 
and development, which brings innovative improvements to the 
Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in 
production and marketing techniques. 
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors 
Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this 
report confirms that: 
> so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
(that is, information needed by the Company’s Auditors in 
connection with preparing their report) of which the 
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and  
> they have each taken all the steps that he/she ought to  
have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself  
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the  
Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting 
Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on  
3 February 2009, together with explanations of the resolutions  
to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting 
accompanying this report. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
 
Matthew R Phillips 
Company Secretary  
26 November 2008 
 
’ DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 44 
The Board of Directors (the Board) remains committed  
to maintaining high standards of corporate governance,  
which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business  
affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging  
its stewardship responsibilities. 
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions  
and Compliance 
Throughout the year under review and up to the date of  
approval of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with  
the governance rules and best practice provisions applying  
to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) which  
was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2006. The 
Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website www.frc.org.uk. 
During the financial year Imperial Tobacco Group PLC also  
had securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the SEC) and complied with the appropriate 
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOXA) until 
delisting on 12 September 2008. 
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders  
for the Group’s standard of governance and this report,  
together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, seeks to 
demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated 
by the Code, have been and continue to be applied in practice 
within the Group.  
During the course of the financial year the Board and its Audit 
Committee have continued to keep under review the Group’s 
entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial  
and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk 
management. Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied  
that an appropriate internal control framework is in place  
across the Group.  
Throughout the Group, formal procedures, including well 
established and embedded internal controls, have been and 
continue to be maintained. Such procedures, together with 
continued regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have 
ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for 
the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the 
significant areas of risk to achievement of the Group’s strategic 
objectives. Any weaknesses identified have a plan of remedial 
action, progress against which is regularly reported to the Audit 
Committee. A Risk Co-ordination Committee was established 
during the year in order to further enhance the Group’s top  
down risk management activities. 
During the course of the year business reviews of the Group’s 
operations have been performed as part of the Group 
Compliance function’s programme of activity. This has 
highlighted a small number of controls requiring minor 
remediation work which is currently being completed. 
From reports to the Group Compliance function by the business 
operations of any potential instances of fraud or accounting 
irregularity that may have occurred during the financial year,  
the Audit Committee concluded that neither individually nor 
collectively did they have a material impact on the results or 
performance of the Group for the financial year. 
Consequences of Delisting from the NYSE and  
De-registration from the SEC 
Subsequent to the delisting of the Group’s American Depositary 
Shares (ADSs) from the NYSE on 12 September 2008 it had 
retained a level 1 American Depositary Receipt (ADR) program. 
Imperial Tobacco Group’s ADSs are now listed on the 
International Premier Tier of OTCQX under the ticker  
symbol ITYBY. 
While registered under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, 
Imperial Tobacco was subject to the provisions of SOXA and 
management was responsible for establishing and maintaining  
an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting. 
of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework to evaluate the 
effectiveness of that system. Following deregistration, Imperial 
Tobacco is no longer required to comply with SOXA, however, 
management recognises the benefit of the system of financial 
controls introduced to meet its requirements and has therefore 
decided to maintain the key elements of the system. 
Update on Ongoing Enquiries 
German Investigations 
Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in 
January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations 
by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during  
a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group in  
May 2002. In the course of 2005, parts of the investigations into 
certain of the individuals were terminated on terms agreed by  
the individuals with the authorities and settlement was made of 
any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities being 
investigated at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group. In 2006 
and 2007, investigations against some of the other individuals 
were terminated for lack of evidence.  
In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were  
brought in connection with one of the investigations against  
18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.  
In November 2006, in connection with a separate investigation, 
charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act 
were brought against four other former Reemtsma employees. In 
to the charges of smuggling, but no hearing date has been set. 
In connection with the charges relating to violations of the 
German foreign trade act, the authorities have applied for 
financial penalties to be imposed on Reemtsma. Such penalties 
could be imposed if the former employees who have been 
charged are ultimately found to have committed offences. In 
those circumstances, the Imperial Tobacco Group would seek 
recovery of any losses under arrangements made on the 
acquisition of the business. 
A Board Committee established in 2003 remains in place to 
monitor the progress of the investigations and the Group’s 
responses on behalf of the Board. The German authorities’ 
investigations are based on alleged activities prior to the  
Group’s acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains 
satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been 
involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged  
by the German authorities. 
Office of Fair Trading 
As previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial 
Tobacco Group and a number of other companies to the UK 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in October 2003 in relation to an OFT 
investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain. 
Further information was supplied in April 2005. On 24 April 2008 
the OFT issued a Statement of Objections (SO) alleging that 
certain tobacco manufacturers and retailers had engaged in 
unlawful practices in relation to retail prices for tobacco products 
in the UK. 
The SO sets out the OFT s allegations against tobacco 
manufacturers, Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher, and  
’
October 2008, the German court agreed to open the trial in relation 
Management used the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 45
11 retailers – Asda, the Co-operative Group, First Quench, 
Morrisons, Safeway, Sainsbury, Shell, Somerfield, T&S Stores, 
Tesco and TM Retail. The OFT alleges that these tobacco 
manufacturers and retailers variously engaged in one or more 
unlawful practices in relation to retail prices for some or all of  
a number of tobacco products in breach of Chapter I of the 
Competition Act 1998 (which prohibits anti-competitive 
agreements and concerted practices that have the object or 
effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in the UK 
or a part of it and which may affect trade in the UK or a part of it).  
The alleged practices comprised: 
a) arrangements between each manufacturer and each retailer 
that restricted the ability of each of these retailers to 
determine its selling prices independently, by linking the  
retail price of a manufacturer s brand to the retail price of  
a competing brand of another manufacturer. The alleged 
infringements span different periods for different parties 
between 2000 and 2003; and 
b) in the case of Imperial Tobacco Group, Gallaher, Asda, 
Sainsbury, Shell, Somerfield and Tesco, the indirect exchange 
of proposed future retail prices between competitors. The 
alleged infringements span different periods for different 
parties between 2001 and 2003. 
Following the issue of the SO, the OFT invited recipients of the SO 
to enter into without prejudice settlement discussions to reach 
‘early resolution agreements’ with the OFT in which they were 
invited to admit liability for the conduct set out in the SO in return 
for a reduction in the level of fine that the OFT indicated it would 
otherwise impose. On 11 July 2008 the OFT announced that six of 
the parties subject to the SO had reached early resolution 
agreements with the OFT, in which they admitted liability in respect 
of all of the infringements alleged against them in the SO and 
agreed to pay individual penalties which amounted to a combined 
maximum of £173.3 million before discounts (£132.3 million if all 
leniency and early resolution discounts are given). Those 
companies are Asda, First Quench, Gallaher, One Stop Stores 
(formerly named T&S Stores), Somerfield and TM Retail. 
The parties which have not settled, and are therefore contesting 
the OFT s allegations other than Imperial Tobacco Group, are the 
Co-operative Group, Morrisons (including Safeway), Shell and 
Tesco. According to the OFT’s press release of 11 July 2008, 
Sainsbury has been granted leniency and will, therefore, receive 
complete immunity from financial penalty if it continues to  
co-operate fully with the OFT. Imperial Tobacco Group s detailed 
written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT on  
15 August 2008. An oral hearing has been scheduled for  
3 December 2008 for Imperial Tobacco’s representatives to 
make submissions to the OFT in defence of the allegations.  
No timetable for the remainder of the OFT s enquiry has been 
published. In light of the responses it receives to the SO, the  
OFT may decide to close the investigation, present additional 
evidence by issuing a supplemental SO, or proceed to an 
infringement decision.  
If the OFT proceeds to an infringement decision, it may impose  
a fine. The amount of the fine is calculated by reference to the 
turnover of the infringing company. The rules regarding the 
maximum amount of such a penalty changed on 1 May 2004. 
Before that date, the maximum amount of a fine was 10 per cent 
of a company’s UK turnover for up to three years. In the three 
years to 30 September 2003 Imperial Tobacco Group’s 
aggregate net UK turnover was £2,215 million. The applicable 
turnover on which the amount of a fine is based expressly 
excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which 
Imperial Tobacco Group has been advised would also exclude 
duty. In addition, if the OFT were to make an infringement finding, 
it could issue orders prohibiting that activity in the future, whilst 
the infringing company might face the prospect of damages 
actions from third parties. If the OFT were to make an 
infringement decision, Imperial Tobacco Group would be able  
to appeal the OFT’s decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal, 
and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal. 
Board and Board Committee 
Board Structure 
The Board of Directors, which met nine times during the year 
(with two of the meetings having a duration of two days), 
currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, eight 
independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive 
Director not classified as independent for the purposes of the 
Code when determining the composition of the Board or its 
Committees, and four Executive Directors.  
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman,  
Mr I J G Napier, and the Chief Executive, Mr G Davis, to ensure 
an appropriate balance of power and authority. The Chairman is 
Executive, in conjunction with the Chief Executive’s Committee, 
responsible for managing the Group and implementing the 
strategy and policies which have been set by the Board. 
Mr J-D Comolli is Deputy Chairman and Dr P H Jungels is the 
recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom 
the Company would encourage shareholders to raise any 
concerns they may have. 
Following the annual Board evaluation and consideration of all 
other relevant factors contained in the Code and the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) Corporate Governance rules, the  
Board concluded at its meeting in September 2008 that all  
Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively and 
constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question 
management objectively and robustly and at all times to have  
the best interests of the Group in mind and that, taking account 
of these factors, together with the other relevant factors 
contained in the Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance 
rules, with the exception of Mr J-D Comolli, the other nine Non-
Executive Directors (including the Chairman) remain independent 
for the purposes of the NYSE Corporate Governance rules and 
the other eight Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chairman 
as required by the Code) remain independent for the purposes  
of the Code. 
The Board does not classify Mr J-D Comolli, for the purposes of 
the Combined Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance rules, 
as an independent director, due to his ongoing Chairmanships of 
certain subsidiaries within the Group and his provision of 
consultancy services to the Group.  
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the 
independence of those Directors who have appointments on 
boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group. 
The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments and 
other situations which could result in any possible conflict of 
interest and has adopted appropriate processes to manage and 
if appropriate approve any such conflicts. In this regard, and to 
underpin his independence, the Company has entered into an 
agreement with Mr B Setrakian, a former Non-Executive Director 
of and legal adviser to Altadis, to minimise the risk of any conflict 
of interest between, inter alia, the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 
of which he is a partner, and the Company. 
’
’
’
’
responsible for the leadership of the whole Board, with the Chief  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 46 
The Directors’ biographies, appearing on pages 38 and 39, 
demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and 
the wider Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with  
a range of business and financial experience which is vital to  
the management of an expanding international company. The 
biographies also include details of any other major directorships. 
Board Changes 
During the year the Nominations Committee again reviewed the 
composition and balance of the Board. This review took into 
account not only the overall balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of Board members but also of the wider provisions  
of the Code and the results of the annual evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors. 
As announced last year, Mr J-D Comolli was invited to become 
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and to provide certain 
consultancy services to the Group. Following approval by  
the Board Mr J-D Comolli was appointed on 15 July 2008.  
In addition the Altadis board was requested to submit two  
of its non-executive directors to be invited to join the Board  
as non-executive directors. After due consideration of the 
appropriate candidates and the approval of the Nominations 
Committee and the Board, Messrs B F Bich and B Setrakian 
joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 25 April 2008 
and 25 June 2008 respectively.  
As previously announced, Messrs D Cresswell and  
A G L Alexander retired on 31 December 2007 and  
29 January 2008 respectively. 
In addition to extensive Investor Relations roadshows,  
Mr I J G Napier met with a number of key shareholders during  
the year. The opportunity also exists for major shareholders  
to meet with new and existing Directors. In addition, Directors  
made themselves available to meet shareholders after the  
formal business of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) had  
been completed. 
 
Structure of the Board and Board Committees 
 
 
Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Executive Directors     
G Davis Member – – – 
R Dyrbus Member – – – 
G L Blashill Member – – – 
A J Cooper Member – – – 
Non-Executive Directors     
I J G Napier Chairman  – Member Chairman 
B F Bich Member – – Member 
K M Burnett Member – – Member 
J-D Comolli Deputy Chairman – – Member 
M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member 
P H Jungels – Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member 
C F Knott Member Member Member Member 
S E Murray Member Member Member Member 
B Setrakian Member – – Member 
M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member 
 
Performance Evaluation 
During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the 
assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally  
reviewed and evaluated its own performance together with the 
performance of its Committees and individual Directors. The 
reviews were conducted by way of detailed questionnaires, 
completed by the Directors, followed by one to one interviews 
between each Director and the external consultant. Feedback  
on individual Directors was discussed with the Chairman and this 
in turn was followed by private feedback meetings between the 
Chairman and each of the Directors. A report on the performance 
of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was made 
to the Board at its meetings in September and November 2008. 
Following a private feedback meeting with the external 
consultant, Dr P H Jungels, the senior independent Non-
Executive Director, met with the Non-Executive Directors  
as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider the 
performance of the Chairman. After also taking account of the 
views of the Executive Directors and the results of the Chairman’s 
formal performance evaluation, Dr P H Jungels held a private 
feedback meeting with the Chairman. 
The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive 
Directors to consider, amongst other things, succession issues 
and the performance of the Executive Directors in the discharge 
of their duties. 
Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are 
satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively.  
No fundamental issues or training needs were identified and  
the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors  
has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute 
effectively to the Board and its Committees. Accordingly, the 
Board recommends that Mr G L Blashill and Dr P H Jungels 
should stand for re-election and that Messrs B F Bich,  
J-D Comolli and B Setrakian should stand for election at the 
2009 AGM. 
The key positive theme which emerged from this year’s 
evaluation was that, notwithstanding the Altadis acquisition,  
the increased size of the Board and refreshment of Board 
membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity  
with all Board members working well together.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 47
The key themes for development included the need to ensure  
a continued high degree of Board unity and effectiveness during 
the ongoing Board succession and refreshment process. 
Commencing with the Remuneration Committee’s September 
2008 meeting, a standing item has been added to the 
Committee’s agenda allowing the members of the Committee  
to meet without the Company Chairman, any Executive Director 
or other manager being present.  
The Board plans to continue to conduct evaluations on an annual 
basis and may employ alternative formats and approaches in 
future years. 
Board Operations 
The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group 
and manages overall control of the Group’s affairs by the 
schedule of matters reserved for its decision contained in  
the Group’s Corporate Manual. These include, inter-alia, 
responsibility for the Group’s commercial strategy, the approval 
of financial statements and corporate plans, the overall corporate 
governance framework, acquisitions and disposals, treasury,  
tax and risk management policies and appointment and removal 
of Directors and the Company Secretary. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for 
ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules  
and regulations complied with. 
All Directors are equally accountable in law for the proper 
stewardship of the Group’s affairs, with the Non-Executive 
Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that 
strategies proposed for the development of the business, 
resources and standards of conduct are critically reviewed using 
their independent judgement and experience. This ensures that 
members, takes account of the wider community of interests 
represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and that 
environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues are 
fully integrated into the Group’s decision making and risk 
assessment processes.  
During the year matters considered by the Board included the 
acquisition of Altadis, together with the follow-on bid resulting  
in the subsequent acquisition of all Logista shares not already 
owned by Altadis, review of Group funding arrangements, 
including the one for two Rights Issue, the divestment of Aldeasa, 
the Board changes detailed above, review of the strategy and 
term plans and brand divestments which were a condition of the 
European Commission’s approval of the Group’s acquisition of 
Altadis and the integration of Altadis. Actual results of the Group 
were reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, 
including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in 
the intervening periods. This ensured that Board members were 
supplied with information on the progress of the business in a 
properly briefed on issues arising. All Board members receive 
reports from the chairmen of all Board Committees and receive 
copies of each Committee’s minutes. 
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in  
corporate accountability and governance through their 
membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations 
Committee and the Audit Committee. The membership and remit 
of each Committee are considered below, together with a record 
of each Director’s attendance at Board and Board Committee 
meetings during the year. As part of the Group’s policy of annual 
review, the terms of reference for each of these Committees  
were reviewed, and updated where necessary, during the year 
and are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website,  
www.imperial-tobacco.com. They are also available from the 
Company Secretary.  
The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek 
both independent professional advice, at the Group’s expense, 
and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order 
to fulfil their duties. The Group maintains appropriate insurance 
cover in respect of Directors’ and Officers’ liabilities. The 
Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity 
arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and 
scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements in respect of the 
Companies Act 1985. 
Chief Executive’s Committee 
Over the financial year, the Chief Executive’s Committee, 
comprising the Executive Directors, the Manufacturing Director, 
the Chief Operating Officer Cigar, the Group Human Resources 
Director and the Company Secretary, met 11 times to ensure 
appropriate control and management of day-to-day business 
matters. Within the framework of the Chief Executive’s 
Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business 
control matters to the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive’s 
Committee, who are responsible for implementing Group policy 
and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the 
business. They have full power to act, subject to the reserved 
powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the 
Group’s policy guidelines. 
Mr G Aldridge joined the Chief Executive’s Committee as 
Manufacturing Director with effect from 1 January 2008.  
Mr F Domínguez joined the Chief Executive’s Committee as Chief 
Operating Officer Cigar Business Unit with effect from 11 June 2008. 
Between formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the 
Chairman and chairmen of the Board Committees communicate 
regularly with the Chief Executive and other members of the  
Chief Executive’s Committee.  
 
the Board acts in the best long-term interests of the Company’s 
operating results of the business, approval of annual and medium- 
timely manner and that at Board meetings the Directors were  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 48 
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders  
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations
Committee
Annual 
General 
Meeting
Total number of meetings in 2008 9 4 6 2 1
Number of meetings attended in 2008  
Executive Directors  
Mr G Davis 9/9 – – – 1/1
Mr R Dyrbus 9/9 – – – 1/1
Mr G L Blashill 9/9 – – – 1/1
Mrs A J Cooper 9/9 – – – 1/1
Mr D Cresswell
1
 1/1 –– –– 
Non-Executive Directors  
Mr I J G Napier 9/9 – 6/6 2/2 1/1
Mr A G L Alexander
2
 4/4–– –1/1
Mr B F Bich
3
 3/4–– 1/1–
Dr K M Burnett 9/9 – – 2/2 1/1
Mr J-D Comolli
3
 1/1–– ––
Mr M H C Herlihy 9/9 4/4 6/6 2/2 1/1
Dr P H Jungels 9/9 3/4 6/6 1/2 1/1
Mr C F Knott  9/9 3/4 6/6 2/2 1/1
Ms S E Murray 9/9 3/4 6/6 2/2 1/1
Mr B Setrakian
3
 2/2–– ––
Mr M D Williamson 9/9 4/4 5/6 2/2 1/1
1 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
2 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008. 
3 
be unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior engagement. 
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend. 
Remuneration Committee 
The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
which appears on page 55. The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, 
www.imperial-tobacco.com. The Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and  
the Board and signed by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, outlines remuneration strategy and policy, details  
the Committee’s activities over the financial year and contains full details of Directors’ emoluments. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above.
Messrs B F Bich, B Setrakian and J-D Comolli were appointed on 25 April 2008, 25 June 2008 and 15 July 2008 respectively. Prior to his appointment Mr Bich informed the Company that he would   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 49
 
Nominations Committee Report 
 
 
Members 
Mr I J G Napier (Chairman); 
Mr A G L Alexander (retired 29 January 2008); 
Mr B F Bich (appointed 25 April 2008); 
Dr K M Burnett; 
Mr J-D Comolli (appointed 15 July 2008); 
Mr M H C Herlihy;  
Dr P H Jungels; 
Mr C F Knott; 
Ms S E Murray;  
Mr B Setrakian (appointed 25 June 2008);  
Mr M D Williamson; and 
Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary  
to the Committee.  
   
 
Responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the Committee include:- 
> the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board;  
> the development of role specifications;  
> the formulation of succession plans; and  
> the making of recommendations to the Board with regard 
to the appointment of Directors. 
 
 
Membership 
The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-Executive 
Directors and meets on an as required basis. During the year  
the Committee met twice. 
Overview 
The Committee’s terms of reference are published on the 
Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.imperial-tobacco.com.  
In the financial year the Committee met its responsibilities by the 
identification of suitable candidates, who met the relevant skill 
profile, from the Non-Executive Board Members of Altadis, in 
fulfilment of a commitment given on acquisition. The Committee 
also made a number of recommendations to the Board resulting 
in the appointments as detailed in the Board Changes section 
above, consideration of succession plans and the annual review 
of the Committee’s terms of reference.  
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, 
Directors are appointed by the Board. They must, however, 
submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM 
following their appointment. Thereafter all Directors, in 
accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least 
every three years. Furthermore, it is the Company’s practice  
that any Non-Executive Director, including the Chairman,  
having been in post for nine years or more is subject to annual  
re-election. The performance of each Director is considered 
before recommending such election or re-election. 
In order to facilitate succession planning, during the year there 
were a number of opportunities for Board members to interact 
with senior management, for example during strategy days, 
Board meetings and Board dinners. Succession planning was 
also discussed at Non-Executive Director dinners held during  
the year. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of  
the Board performance evaluation process described above. 
Induction and Training 
Detailed training and briefing is provided to all Directors on 
appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual 
qualifications and experience.  
Messrs B F Bich and J-D Comolli’s induction programme 
included meetings with the Group’s advisers and key Group 
personnel representing major functions, and site visits. These 
meetings also included briefings on relevant corporate 
responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters,  
product stewardship, environmental management, social  
impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial risk 
management. Mr B Setrakian completed a similar induction 
process subsequent to the end of the financial year. 
Ongoing training is made available to all Directors to meet their 
individual needs. Regular briefings are also provided to Directors 
on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes  
and corporate governance developments. During the year the 
Group’s external lawyers briefed the Board on topical items of 
interest, including the implications of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received briefings 
from PricewaterhouseCoopers and Hewitts Limited respectively 
to ensure they remain up to date with current regulations and 
developments. 
  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 50 
 
 
Audit Committee Report 
 
 
Members 
Mr M D Williamson (Chairman);  
Mr M H C Herlihy; 
Dr P H Jungels; 
Mr C F Knott; 
Ms S E Murray; and 
Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary  
to the Committee.  
   
 
Responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the Committee include:- 
> review of internal control and risk assessment;  
> oversight of the Group Compliance function;  
> monitoring of external audit; 
> review of financial statements; and 
> oversight of other matters including the requirements of 
the UK listing authority and the Group’s Public Interest 
Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Policy. 
 
 
Membership 
The Audit Committee, which has determined that all its members 
are independent Non-Executive Directors, met four times during 
the year and members’ attendance is set out in the table on  
page 48. 
Messrs M D Williamson and C F Knott are qualified accountants 
and, therefore, are appropriately qualified to discharge the 
responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and  
are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the 
Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (with which  
the Company had to comply until deregistration from the 
Securities & Exchange Commission on 12 September 2008).  
The remaining members of the Committee supply a supporting 
mix of skills and backgrounds. 
Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the 
Committee. 
Overview 
The Committee’s terms of reference cover the matters 
recommended by the Code and are published on the Imperial 
Tobacco Group website, www.imperial-tobacco.com. During the 
year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the 
Committee worked with a structured agenda of matters focused 
to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, 
together with standing items that the Committee is required to 
consider at each meeting. During the year the Committee met its 
responsibilities by:- 
> monitoring internal control throughout the Group;  
> approving the Group’s accounting policies, including changes 
to segmental reporting, impairment testing and provisions;  
> consideration of the accounting treatment of the ongoing 
enquiries detailed above on pages 44 and 45; 
> reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, together 
with the USA filing on Form 20-F in respect of the 2006/07 
Financial Year, prior to submission to the Board;  
> reviewing the scope of the external audit plan and the internal 
Group Compliance work plan; 
> consideration of any related party matters; 
> review of Auditor performance and independence, including 
rotation of Senior Audit Partner; 
> consideration of and recommendations to the Board regarding 
the reappointment of the Auditors; 
> review of audit fees and of non-audit fees paid to the Auditors 
and other accountancy firms; 
> review of the Going Concern statement prior to consideration 
by the Board;  
> oversight and monitoring of the Group’s Public Interest 
Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Policy;  
> the financial integration of acquired businesses; 
> review of Group Compliance’s performance; and 
> review of the Group’s control and corporate governance 
environments including risk management systems. 
 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of  
the Board performance evaluation process described above. 
During the year the Head of Group Compliance provided  
the Committee with detailed reports to facilitate the regular 
monitoring and review of its activities and effectiveness  
including those in respect of the programmes of activity in  
place to enable the Group to meet the requirements of both  
the Code and section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (up to  
12 September 2008).  
The Committee undertook its annual review of the scope  
and content of the risk assessment and compliance  
programme implemented by the Group Compliance function  
and confirmed its approval. The Committee continually monitors 
and critically reviews the authority, effectiveness and level of 
resource allocated to the activity. During the year a Risk  
Co-ordination Committee was established in order to further 
enhance the Group’s top down risk management activity.  
The Risk Co-ordination Committee will provide regular reports  
to the Audit Committee.  
The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head  
of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other 
financial management were invited to attend each meeting of the 
Committee. A standing item on each agenda allowed for the 
Head of Group Compliance to meet formally with the Committee, 
without any Executive Director or other manager being present,  
in line with the Code’s requirements. 
In addition, the Group’s Auditors attended each meeting of the 
Committee during the year and, as a standing item on each 
agenda, had the opportunity to meet with the Committee 
members without the presence of any Executive Director or other 
manager, providing a direct line of communication between the 
Auditors and Non-Executive Directors. 
Auditor Independence Policy  
The Group regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy, 
which provides clear definitions of services that the external 
Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence 
and objectivity are not impaired. The policy also establishes  
a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and  
pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit 
work that they may perform, establishes guidelines for the 
recruitment of employees or former employees of the external 
Auditors and for the recruitment of the Group’s employees  
by the external Auditors. This policy is published on the Group’s 
website, www.imperial-tobacco.com.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 51
The Audit Committee also carried out bi-annual reviews of  
the remuneration received by the Auditors for audit services, 
audit-related services and non-audit work with the aim of  
seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance 
with this policy. The outcome of these reviews was not only that 
performance of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was 
the most cost-effective way of conducting the Group’s business 
but also that no conflict of interest existed between such audit 
and non-audit work. The fees for such non-audit work within  
the financial year were principally related to acting as reporting 
accountant in connection with our offer for Altadis and the 
associated Rights Issue and tax advisory work. Such fees are 
shown on page 87.  
Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of  
the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed  
by the Auditors it was agreed that the Group continues to receive 
an efficient, effective and independent audit service. 
Internal Control  
The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Group’s system  
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of 
the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code 
from information and regular reports provided by management, 
the internally independent Group Compliance Function and 
external Auditors. However, given the size and complexity of the 
Group’s operations, such a system can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives 
by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, 
regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which 
have been established to provide internal control. It confirms that 
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s significant risks operated throughout the year and up to 
the date of the approval of the Annual Report. 
The Group has established control processes and procedures  
to ensure compliance with the best practice UK governance 
provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance. The Group 
considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of 
maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfy the 
requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.  
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance 
of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: 
Risk Assessment: 
> The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part  
incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle; 
> A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by 
and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles; 
> All areas of the business undertook bottom-up, risk-profiling 
exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that 
all major risks were reviewed at all levels across the Group. 
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk 
assessment summaries from each of the business operations 
identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the 
controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such 
risks. This review is ongoing throughout all business operations 
of the Group to ensure that there continues to be clear and 
consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and 
implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk 
exposure identified; 
> The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for 
considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance 
risks on a regular basis. The Group Compliance Function 
formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the 
outcome of its ongoing activities, including its programme of 
compliance reviews and any, more general, business reviews. 
These reports have supported the Audit Committee and the 
Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within 
the business operations. In this way, the Audit Committee 
satisfied itself that the Group’s exposure to major business 
risks is minimised such that the levels of retained risk are 
acceptable to the Group;  
> A Risk Co-ordination Committee has also been established  
to supplement the bottom-up risk profiling exercises described 
above with a top-down approach; and  
> A summary of the principal risks facing the business is 
included on pages 22 to 24. 
Control Environment and Control Activities: 
> The Group is organised on a functional basis with 
manufacturing, cigar, logistics, sales and marketing and  
central support functions each having their own management 
and control structures which satisfy the Group’s controls, 
accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities; 
> The Board continually reviews the Group’s organisational 
structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility 
with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of 
duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place  
to fulfil their roles. Such delegated authority ensures that 
decisions, significant either because of their value or impact  
on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level; 
> The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the 
schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or 
compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it  
for decision; 
> The Group has an established framework of policies and 
procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are 
expected to comply with. These cover key issues such  
as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, 
segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and 
legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, 
governance and health, safety and environmental issues.  
This framework of policies and procedures, which has been 
developed and issued, with consistent communication 
throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a  
periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite 
control guidance and remains pertinent to the Group’s 
business activities; 
> A cross-functional project team has reviewed the Group’s 
framework of policies and procedures with respect to their 
usefulness to the business and their relationship to each other. 
A new corporate documents intranet site has been created  
in order to provide improved clarity on the purpose of the 
documents, how they are connected, how they are maintained 
and how they are to be used by the business; 
> A major focus during the year has been the rollout of our 
control environment into Altadis. This included a briefing  
to senior management during the first week following 
acquisition, the rollout of ‘interim control measures’, business 
and budgetary reviews within the first month, establishment  
of Imperial Tobacco’s reporting processes, changes to the 
boards of Altadis SA and its subsidiaries and post acquisition 
due diligence. Imperial Tobacco’s corporate governance 
processes, including risk assessments and control 
certifications, have also been rolled out across the  
Altadis business; 
of its medium-term planning process. These objectives are 
the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 52 
> A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence 
with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by 
employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, 
improper business practices, management impropriety or 
other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial 
(commonly referred to as ‘Whistleblowing’ arrangements) 
operates throughout the Group; 
> The Group has an established and consistent methodology  
for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations 
and identifying significant risk issues associated therewith. 
Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with 
each significant risk that has been identified, including not  
only internal controls but also other external measures such  
as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies;  
> There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, 
control and review of capital and strategic expenditure 
including acquisitions;  
> The Group’s treasury function operates within a well-defined 
policy designed to control the Group’s financing arrangements 
and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange risks through treasury instruments; and 
> The Board reviews annually the Group’s Treasury and  
Tax policies and Occupational, Health, Safety and 
Environmental matters. 
Information and communication: 
> Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, 
prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed  
for robustness and realism; and 
> A comprehensive system of controls, including regular  
periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, 
ensured that major variances against plan were promptly  
and thoroughly investigated. These reviews were conducted  
at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by 
the Chief Executive’s Committee. 
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and  
non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range  
of key performance indicators. These indicators are periodically 
reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable. 
Monitoring: 
> A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and 
monitor the effective application of internal controls across  
the Group. These included independent reviews by the Group 
Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks 
and relevant controls. Furthermore both the senior operational 
and financial managers of each business and function annually 
certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance 
with the Group’s policies and covering all business activities 
(both financial and non-financial), have been maintained within 
their area of responsibility; 
> The Group Compliance Function’s responsibilities include 
reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of 
internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest 
perceived risk to the Group. This is now a standing item on  
the Chief Executive’s Committee’s agenda; 
> Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate 
response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk 
controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group 
Compliance Function; and 
> A Risk Co-ordination Committee chaired by the Company 
Secretary and comprising senior representatives of the 
Group’s functions was established during the year. The  
remit of this Committee is to ensure relevant risks identified 
within the Group from a top-down perspective are  
efficiently co-ordinated and to track mitigation activities  
by operational management.  
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to 
the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year  
ended 30 September 2008, and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code 
and Turnbull Guidance. Through the procedural and reporting 
framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out 
above, and review of the Group’s financial statements, the Board 
is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control. 
Disclosure Committee: 
In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities  
and Exchange Commission and to meet corporate governance 
best practice in the UK, the Group has a Disclosure Committee 
comprising appropriate senior executives: 
> Company Secretary (Chairman); 
> Head of Group Compliance (Co-ordinator); 
> Head of Group Legal Affairs; and 
> Group Financial Controller. 
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to  
the Committee. 
The External Auditors, together with other senior management, 
are invited to attend or to submit matters for the attention of  
the Committee. 
The Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, 
considered the significance of relevant information identified after 
due enquiry by its members both prior to each meeting and on 
an ongoing basis.  
During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all the 
Group’s major financial disclosures including Trading Updates, 
Interim Management Statements, Half Year Report, Report & 
Accounts, Form 20-F and documentation in respect of the 
European Medium Term Note Programme. 
The Committee reported on its evaluation of such information  
to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and, as appropriate, the 
Audit Committee to assist them in their evaluation of material 
issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required. 
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were 
reviewed during the year. 
The Disclosure Committee will continue to operate following  
the Group’s USA delisting and deregistration. 
Going Concern 
The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has 
adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the 
foreseeable future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Pension Fund  
The Group’s main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension 
Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting  
of five nominees from the Company; one member of which is 
chosen by employees and two by current and deferred 
pensioners. The Trustees look after the assets of the pension 
fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are 
managed by independent fund managers. The pension fund 
assets can only be used in accordance with the fund’s Rules  
and for no other purpose.   www.imperial-tobacco.com 53
Political Donations  
As in the previous year, no political donations were made to EU 
political parties, organisations or candidates. However, one 
acquired business made corporate donations to candidates and 
political parties in three USA states, as detailed on page 43. 
These donations were stopped with effect from 30 September 
2008. 
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance 
Requirements  
On 12 September 2008 the Group’s voluntary delisting from the 
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) became effective. Until that 
date, as a listed non-USA issuer, the Group was required to 
comply with some of the NYSE’s listing standards relating to  
the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but  
was exempt from others. 
This included an obligation to disclose any significant ways in 
which the Group’s corporate governance practices differed  
from those followed by USA companies under the NYSE listing 
standards. During the period of its NYSE listing, the Group 
believes that it was in compliance in all material respects with  
the relevant NYSE listing standards. 
It is, however, the Board that develops, recommends and adopts 
the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout  
the Group. In addition, the role of an internal audit department is 
incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent 
Group Compliance Function. 
The Group will continue to provide a high standard of corporate 
governance, information and disclosure in line with the current 
UK corporate governance code and regulatory requirements,  
and will use the progress it has made in achieving compliance 
with regulations under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act  
as part of its ongoing approach to governance, internal control 
and reporting. 
Communication with Shareholders 
Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and  
a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding 
and dialogue with investment audiences. The Chairman, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director, together with feedback from 
external advisers, ensured that the views expressed at meetings 
with major shareholders were communicated effectively to the 
Board as a whole such that any issues or concerns were fully 
understood. 
At the half year a Half Yearly Report was published, which 
together with this Annual Report, is available online through the 
Imperial Tobacco Group’s website, www.imperial-tobacco.com, 
together with all announcements, investor presentations and 
share price information. 
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress 
of the Group via Interim Management Statements, trading 
statements and of significant developments through other 
announcements. These were also made available on other  
news services and on the Group’s website. There was regular 
dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector 
conferences, which has been extended to ensure that major 
shareholders are given the opportunity to meet Non-Executive 
Directors on appointment and the senior independent Non-
Executive Director will, if so requested, attend meetings with 
major investors. 
The Group regularly liaises with its major shareholders and their 
representative bodies on significant issues. The Group also met 
with Corporate Governance representatives of investors when 
requested.  
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder 
documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting 
proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including  
the ability to abstain if desired.  
In addition, at the AGM in 2008 individual shareholders received 
presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the 
Group’s performance and current business activities and were 
given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and 
other Directors. In accordance with the Group’s practice, the 
Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM were sent  
to shareholders more than 20 working days prior to the date of 
the meeting. 
Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject,  
with all resolutions put to a poll. The Company indicates the level 
of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed 
during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against 
and withheld for each such resolution. In 2008, voting levels  
at the AGM represented approximately 77 per cent of the 
Company’s then issued share capital (excluding shares held in 
Treasury). After the conclusion of the meeting the final results  
are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on 
the Company’s website. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the 
parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.  
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in 
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice). The Group and parent Company financial statements 
are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss  
of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required 
to:- 
> select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;  
> make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; 
> state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the 
parent Company financial statements that applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
> prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements 
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Group will continue in business, in which 
case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications 
as necessary. 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 54 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
the parent Company financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:- 
> the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or  
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and 
> the management report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face. 
Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s registered Auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are responsible for forming an 
independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group  
and on the financial statements of the Company as presented  
by the Directors, on other elements of the Annual Report and 
Accounts as required by legislation or regulation, and for 
reporting their opinion to members. Their report is set out on 
page 7 . 2 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 55
 
 
Remuneration Committee Report
 
 
Members 
Dr P H Jungels (Chairman); 
Mr M H C Herlihy;  
Mr C F Knott;  
Ms S E Murray; 
Mr I J G Napier;  
Mr M D Williamson; and  
Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary  
to the Committee. 
 
   
 
Responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the Committee include:- 
> determination of the Remuneration Policy for  
Executive Directors and members of the Chief  
Executive’s Committee; 
> recommendations to the Board in respect of  
Chairman’s remuneration; 
> determination of targets for performance-related  
pay elements; 
> policy for Directors’ pensions and contracts;  
> oversight of the overall policy for senior management 
remuneration;  
> oversight of disclosures in the emuneration eport; and  
> oversight of the Group’s share incentive plans. 
 
 
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and 
to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority. In particular, it describes how the Board has 
applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ 
remuneration set out in the Code. 
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the 
Company’s shareholders on the audited information within this 
Report and to state whether, in their opinion; those parts of the 
Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985. The Auditors’ opinion is set out on page 7 and those 
aspects of this Report which have been subject to audit have 
been clearly marked. 
The Remuneration Committee, which met six times during  
the year and operates under clear written terms of reference 
(available on the Company’s website www.imperial-tobacco.com), 
confirms formally that throughout the year it has been  
in compliance with the governance rules and best practice 
provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section  
1 of the Code. 
Following the Remuneration Committee’s recommendation, 
commencing with the Committee’s September 2008 meeting,  
a standing item has been added to the Committee’s agenda 
allowing the members of the Committee to meet without the 
Company Chairman, any Executive Director or other manager 
being present. 
Membership 
The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent  
Non-Executive Directors together with the Company Chairman, 
Mr I J G Napier (who is excluded from any matter concerning his 
own remuneration and/or conditions of service), who have no 
personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the 
matters to be decided. 
Mr G Davis (Chief Executive) and Mr R Dyrbus (Finance Director) 
are invited to attend to respond to questions raised by the 
Committee. Mr M R Phillips (Company Secretary) also attends 
meetings as secretary to the Committee. They are, however, all 
specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of 
their own remuneration.  
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
The Committee sets the remuneration package for each 
Executive Director and member of the Chief Executive’s 
Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, 
including remuneration consultants Hewitts Limited and Towers 
Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required. 
Hewitts Limited also reviews the Group’s remuneration principles 
and practices against corporate governance best practice. 
Neither provides any other services for the Group. 
Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Perrin and 
Boardex have also been used to assist in benchmarking 
processes ensuring the consistent application of the executive 
remuneration policy.  
Mrs K A Turner (Group Human Resources Director) and the 
Group Compensation and Benefits Manager also provide internal 
support and advice to the Committee.  
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP have been retained by the Company 
to provide legal advice in respect of the Group’s share plans and 
to provide services to the Committee as and when required. The 
firm also provides other legal services to the Group as a whole. 
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) calculations and provide advice on all 
TSR related matters, including advice in respect of the bespoke 
comparator group. Alithos Limited provides no other services for 
the Group. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Group’s Auditors, perform 
agreed upon procedures on Earnings Per Share (EPS) calculations 
used in the Group’s share plans prior to awards vesting. 
Overview 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost  
of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration 
Committee, within its terms of reference, responsibility for  
certain activities.  
In discharging its responsibilities the most significant issues 
addressed by the Committee during the year were:  
> annual review of Executive Directors’ and Chief Executive’s 
Committee members’ remuneration;  
> review of the standard Chief Executive’s Committee  
service contract; 
> review of the executive bonus arrangements including 
determination of bonus performance criteria, and review  
of performance against the selected criteria prior to bonus 
payment, while ensuring the criteria remain appropriate 
following the Altadis acquisition; 
> approving adjustment to outstanding share plan awards  
to reflect the Rights Issue; 
> approval of minor amendments to share plan rules; 
> extension of share plans to acquired companies; 
> annual review of the operation, performance conditions, 
vesting schedules, comparator groups and grant levels of 
awards under the Group’s share plans, to ensure that they 
remain appropriate in light of the Group’s current performance 
and prospects and aligned with the strategy and objectives of 
the Group and the Group’s overall remuneration strategy; and  
> annual review of the Committee Terms of Reference. 
R R
2 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 56 
The Committee’s approach is fully consistent with the Group’s 
overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees 
should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their 
valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate 
strategy, by directly aligning executive management reward  
with the Group’s strategic business goals. 
Remuneration Strategy 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, 
international environment. For the Group to continue to compete 
successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and 
benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, 
retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of 
talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring 
that there is a clear link between reward and performance. The 
Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration  
to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in 
the countries in which it operates. The Remuneration Committee 
oversees the remuneration policy for all employees. 
The Group’s remuneration arrangements not only align with  
the Group’s fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness  
and equity but also support the Group’s corporate strategy.  
The Group continues to relocate employees internationally to 
facilitate their development, and thus enhance the Company’s 
pool of talent, and to achieve the optimum balance of experience 
within the Group. A cohesive reward structure across the Group 
is critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with,  
and strive for, the Group’s strategic goals. During the year  
this structure was consistently applied and communicated to 
ensure each element of the package is understood and the  
links to corporate performance recognised. To assist in this 
communication senior employees were issued with total  
reward statements. 
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and 
employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity  
to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. The 
majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries  
have been offered participation in one or more equity-based 
plans, with in excess of 32 per cent of eligible employees 
participating in one or more of those plans. To ensure the 
interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, 
Executive Directors and senior management are required to  
meet minimum shareholding guidelines. 
Executive Remuneration Policy 
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration 
package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief 
Executive’s Committee. The package is designed to attract  
and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate 
them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with 
the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive. 
Notwithstanding the Company’s continued outperformance of 
the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 64 the executive 
remuneration policy continues to be set to provide base salary  
at around the median level of the comparator group, as set  
out below, while providing the Executive Directors and Chief 
Executive’s Committee members with the capacity to earn  
upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior 
business performance. 
term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, 
performance-related elements that take into account individual, 
functional and corporate performance. The main components are 
base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme (SMS), 
long term incentive plan (LTIP) and pension benefits. 
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to consider 
corporate performance of environmental, social and governance 
issues when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors. 
 
The executive remuneration policy combines short-term and long-   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 57
Percentage of Total Remuneration 
for the financial year to 30 September 2008 
010 20 30405060708090 100
Mr G Davis
Salary
Bonus
Pension Salary 
Supplement
Beneﬁts
SMS
LTIP
Mr R Dyrbus
Mr G L Blashill
Mrs A J Cooper
 
From the financial year ended September 2004, following a comprehensive remuneration review carried out during that year, more 
stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements, as detailed in the annual 
cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on pages 58 and 61 to 64, both of which form part of this policy statement. 
In September 2008, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the executive remuneration policy including award policies, performance 
criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules. Following the review of the bonus scheme detailed below the Committee 
is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder 
value. It was, however, agreed that the constituents of the bespoke comparator group for the third element of the LTIP described 
below should be reviewed following the demerger of Altria and the acquisition of Scottish & Newcastle PLC by Heineken N.V. 
Executive Directors’ Remuneration Package 
Element Objective Award level Performance criteria 
Performance 
period 
Base salary Attract and retain high performing 
individuals reflecting market value  
of role and executive’s skills  
and experience. 
Median of FTSE 50 excluding 
companies in the Financial and 
Pharmaceutical sectors with 
reference to the FTSE 30 excluding 
companies in the Financial and 
Pharmaceutical sectors. 
N/A N/A 
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of  
Group objectives. 
Maximum percentage of  
base salary: 
Chief Executive and Finance 
Director 125%, other Executive 
Directors 100%. 
Financial Targets  
(100% base salary  
Chief Executive  
and Finance  
Director, 75% other  
Executive Directors). 
Strategic Targets  
(25% base salary for  
1 year 
Share matching 
scheme 
Incentivise delivery of improved 
Group adjusted EPS and align  
with interests of shareholders. 
May elect to invest some or all  
of gross cash element of the  
annual bonus in shares. These  
can be matched on a 1:1 basis. 
Adjusted EPS growth. 3 years 
Long term 
incentive plan 
Incentivise long term delivery  
of TSR and EPS (adjusted for 
certain items) and align with 
interests of shareholders. 
Percentage of base salary: 
Chief Executive 200%, Finance 
Director 150%, other Executive 
Directors 100%. 
3 elements –  
50% adjusted  
EPS growth 
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 
25% TSR vs. comparator 
group.  
3 years 
all Executive Directors).  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 58 
Base Salary 
Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration  
of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, 
performance and external market data. It is set within a range 
around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the 
experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the 
relevant executive. The comparator group of companies chosen 
remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and 
Pharmaceutical sectors with reference to the FTSE 30 excluding 
companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors. Base 
salary is the only element of the package used to determine 
pensionable earnings. 
Annual Bonus 
For the financial year ended 30 September 2008 the potential 
maximum bonus was 125 per cent of base salary for the Chief 
Executive and Finance Director and 100 per cent for other 
Executive Directors. The targets for the year were related to 
adjusted EPS growth and stringent, quantifiable strategic 
elements including volume growth and integration-related  
criteria, however, they are not disclosed as they are considered 
to be commercially confidential. 
During the year the Company achieved adjusted EPS of  
136.9 pence. In addition the strategic targets were met in part 
resulting in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 60, being 
awarded to the Executive Directors. These payments represented 
112.8 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director and 90.1 per cent in respect of the other 
Executive Directors. Cash bonuses were also earned by other 
senior management for achieving relevant performance targets 
for the financial year to 30 September 2008. 
For the financial year ending 30 September 2009 the 
Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential 
maximum bonus will remain unchanged. The performance criteria 
continue to be based on financial targets in respect of 100 per 
cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director 
and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors. The performance 
criteria for 25 per cent of base salary will be based on stringent, 
quantifiable strategic targets which are set each year and are 
subject to the achievement of the minimum threshold in respect 
of the financial targets. 
Any bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the  
Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other 
Executive Directors is paid in cash and is eligible for investment 
into the Share Matching Scheme as detailed on page 65. Any 
bonus payable in excess of this level is paid in shares which  
the Director is required to retain for a minimum of three years. 
These shares are not eligible for investment in the Share 
Matching Scheme. 
In support of the Group’s key performance indicators, as set  
out on page 17, the Remuneration Committee has determined 
that the financial performance criteria for the financial year ended  
30 September 2009 will be based on a matrix comprising 
Adjusted EPS and Group debt and that the strategic targets  
will be based on measures including volume growth and delivery 
of synergies from the Altadis integration. 
No element of the bonus is guaranteed. 
 
   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 59
Directors’ Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2008 (Audited) 
1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise. 
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting. 
Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2008 (Audited) 
 
 
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Executive Directors 
Base Salary 2,460 2,515
Benefits 85 93
Pension Salary Supplement 230 239
Bonus 2,560 2,140
LTIP annual vesting
1
 2,576 2,866
SMS vesting
2
 1,877 2,092
 9,788 9,945
Non-Executive Directors 
Fees 846 660
Benefits 1 3
Subsidiary Board Fees 32 –
Consultancy fees 119 –
 998 663
Former Executive Directors 
Salary of former Executive Director 283 96
Bonus of former Executive Director – 68
Pension Salary Supplement of former Executive Director 16 16
Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 100 103
Subsidiary Board Fees 58 22
LTIP vesting
1 
 893 –
SMS vesting
2
 676 6
Benefits 11 4
 2,037 315
Fees of former Non-Executive Directors 
Subsidiary Board Fees 66 22
 66 22
Total remuneration 12,889 10,945
 
Chief Executive’s Committee 
Salary 906 725
Benefits  29 25
Pension Salary Supplement  43 48
Bonus 572 487
LTIP annual vesting
1
 282 469
SMS annual vesting
2
 215 396
 2,047 2,150
 
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Short term employee benefits  7,609 6,648
Post-employment benefits 364 312 
Other long term benefits  – –
Termination benefits – –
Share-based payment 3,265 2,669 
 11,238 9,629 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 60 
Emoluments by Individual Director (Audited) 
 
Base  
salary  
£’000 
Fees 
£’000 
Subsidiary 
Board fees  
£’000 
 fees
£’000
Bonus
£’000
Pension 
salary 
supplement
1
£’000 
Benefits in 
kind
2
 £’000 
Sub total 
£’000
LTIP
3
 
£’000  
SMS
3
 
£’000  
Total 
2008  
£’000 
Total
2007 
£’000
Base 
Salary/ 
Fees from 
1/10/2008
£’000
Executive Directors              
Mr G Davis,  
Chief Executive 939 – – – 1,059 – 252,0231,021 855 3,899 3,494 1,033
Mr R Dyrbus,  
Finance Director 575 – – – 649 201 251,450 648 544 2,642 2,414 623
Mr G L Blashill, 
Group Sales and 
Marketing Director 420 – – – 378 – 16 814 207 218 1,239 1,106 455
Mrs A J Cooper, 
Corporate 
Development Director 425 – – – 383 29 15 852 235 260 1,347 181 470
Mr D Cresswell
4
, 
Manufacturing 
Director 101 – – – 91 – 4 196 465 – 661 1,435 –
Dr F A Rogerson
5
, 
Corporate Affairs 
Director – – – –––––– – – 1,315 –
 2,460 – – –2,560230855,3352,576 1,877 9,788 9,945 2,581
Non-Executive 
Directors       
Mr I J G Napier,  
Chairman – 360 – – – – – 360 – – 360 245 420
Mr J-D Comolli
6
,  
Deputy Chairman – 21 – 119 – – – 140 – – 140 – 106
Mr A G L Alexander
7
, 
Vice Chairman – 28 – – – – 1 29 – – 29 78 –
Mr D C Bonham
8
 – – – – – – – – – – – 76 –
Mr B F Bich
9
 – 26 19 – – – –45– – 45 –65
Dr K M Burnett – 60 – – – – – 60 – – 60 50 65
Mr C R Day
8
 – – – – – – ––– – – 23 –
Mr M H C Herlihy – 60 – – – – – 60 – – 60 13 65
Dr P H Jungels
10
 – 85 – – – – –85 – – 85 65 100
Mr C F Knott – 60 – – – – – 60 – – 60 50 65
Ms S E Murray – 60 – – – – – 60 – – 60 50 65
Mr B Setrakian
9
 – 16 13 – – – –29 – – 29 –65
Mr M D Williamson
10
 – 70 – – – – – 70 – – 70 13 85
 – 846 32 119––1998– – 998 663 1,101
Former Directors       
Mr S Huismans
11
 – – 66 – – – – 66 – – 66 22 –
Mr S T Painter
12
 – – 58 100 – – –158 – – 158 125 –
Dr F A Rogerson
5
 283 – – – – 16 11 310893 676 1,879 190 –
 283 – 124 100–1611534893 676 2,103 337 –
1 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on page 68. 
2 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance. 
3 LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year. 
4 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
5 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007. Dr F A Rogerson completed a handover period and his employment terminated on 27 June 2008. 
6 Mr J-D Comolli was appointed on 15 July 2008 and in addition to his Director’s fees receives consultancy fees for services provided to the Group.  
7 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008. 
8 Messrs D C Bonham and C R Day retired from the Board on 2 January 2007 and resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007 respectively. 
9 Messrs B F Bich and B Setrakian were appointed on 25 April 2008 and 25 June 2008 respectively. 
10 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of £10,000. 
11 Mr S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006. However, Mr S Huismans received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Subsidiary Boards within the 
Reemtsma and Altadis Groups. 
12 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but received fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Subsidiary Boards within the 
Reemtsma and Altadis Groups. 
13 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances and no Directors waived their fees. 
Consultancy  
www.imperial-tobacco.com 61
Directors’ Interests in Shares (Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests) (Audited) 
 Ordinary Shares Sharesave Options 
Contingent Rights to 
Ordinary Shares 
(LTIP and SMS Shares) Total Interests 
 1/10/07
1
 30/9/08
2 3
 26/11/08
3
1/10/07
1
30/9/08
2 3
1/10/07
1
30/9/08
2 3
1/10/07
1
 30/9/08
2 3
26/11/08
3
Executive Directors           
Mr G Davis 367,726 610,300 610,300 1,344 870 317,394 400,044 686,464 1,011,214 1,011,214 
Mr R Dyrbus 237,190 393,807 393,807 621 714171,890 204,345 409,701 598,866 598,866 
Mr G L Blashill 91,584 149,854 149,854 807 1,465 80,854 105,192 173,245 256,511 256,511 
Mrs A J Cooper 57,981 104,628 104,628 670 771 65,256 82,234 123,907 187,633 187,633 
Mr D Cresswell
4
 102,120 102,120 102,120 548 54899,173 79,822 201,841 182,490 182,490 
Non-Executive 
Directors    
Mr I J G Napier 5,600 10,281 10,281 – – – – 5,600 10,281 10,281 
Mr J-D Comolli
5
 – – – – – – – – – – 
Mr A G L Alexander
6
 132,710 132,710 132,710 – – – – 132,710 132,710 132,710 
Mr B F Bich
5
 – 377 795
7
– – – – – 377 795
7
Dr K M Burnett 405 920 920 – – – – 405 920 920 
Mr M H C Herlihy 343 2,173 2,173 – – – – 343 2,173 2,173 
Dr P H Jungels 2,993 4,866 4,866 – – – – 2,993 4,866 4,866 
Mr C F Knott 405 920 920 – – – – 405 920 920 
Ms S E Murray 993 1,802 1,802 – – – – 993 1,802 1,802 
Mr B Setrakian
5
 – 62 62 – – – – – 62 62 
Mr M D Williamson 81 1,934 1,934 – – – – 81 1,934 1,934 
1 Or date of appointment if later.  
2 Or date of retirement if earlier. 
3  All Directors took up their rights in respect of the Rights Issue and the Contingent Rights have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue. 
4  Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
5  Messrs B F Bich, B Setrakian and J-D Comolli were appointed on 25 April 2008, 25 June 2008 and 15 July 2008 respectively. 
6  Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008. 
7  Includes 377 ordinary shares and 209 American Depositary Shares (ADSs), each ADS representing two ordinary shares. 
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2008, other than the share purchases by Mr B Bich pursuant  
to an irrevocable mandate given by Mr Bich to his brokers under which they purchase American Depositary Shares each month 
equivalent in value to his net Director’s fees. 
Executive Share Retention 
To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are 
required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines. Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding 
in the Group’s shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors. Other senior management are expected to invest at a level 
equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade. Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is taken into 
account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards. All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding. 
Effects of the Rights Issue 
To take account of the effects of the Rights Issue completed in June 2008, adjustments were made to awards under the Group’s 
share plans. In respect of the Share Matching Scheme, the Trustee sold sufficient rights ‘nil paid’ to enable the balance of the rights 
to be taken up, using the proceeds of the sale. The newly acquired shares were allocated pro-rata to the relevant participants and  
will be released on the same basis as the awards to which they relate. 
In the case of the savings-related Sharesave Plan and the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee adjusted the number of shares under 
option, or subject to awards, and in the case of the savings-related Sharesave Plan, the price at which the shares may be acquired 
was also adjusted. 
These adjustments were made in accordance with the scheme or plan rules. The Group’s Auditors performed their agreed upon 
procedures on the adjustments as required by those rules. Where appropriate the adjustments were approved by the relevant  
tax authorities. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Annual awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management. These awards vest three years  
after grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria over the relevant three year performance period. All grants are at  
the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant. 
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of base salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level 
for other senior management. Following a comprehensive remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 
2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005, November 2006 and October 2007 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for 
the Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower 
level for other senior management.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 62 
Current Structure 
From November 2005 the performance criteria for all awards were split into three elements as follows: 
First Element 
Fifty per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on average growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share based on an  
agreed protocol (EPS), after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award. At the Remuneration Committee’s request the 
Auditors performed agreed upon procedures on the calculations. 12.5 per cent of this element (i.e. 6.25 per cent of the total award) 
vests if average annual EPS growth, after adjusting for UK inflation (Real Annual EPS Growth), equals 3 per cent and 100 per cent  
of this element (i.e. 50 per cent of the total award) vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent. Between these 
two points this element vests on a straight-line basis. 
Second Element 
Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the  
FTSE 100 Index as described below. 
The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period. No 
vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.  
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element (i.e. 7.5 per cent of the total award) vests. If the return ranks the Company 
in the top 25 of the Index, this element (i.e. 25 per cent of the total award) vests in full. Between these thresholds this element vests 
on a straight-line basis. 
Third Element 
Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as  
described below. 
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.  
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting the comparator 
group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below. At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element 
(i.e. 7.5 per cent of the total award) vests. If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element  
(i.e. 25 per cent of the total award) vests in full. Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis. 
The proposed comparator group for the November 2008 award is: 
Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S Diageo PLC 
Heineken N.V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew S.A. Japan Tobacco Inc.  
Philip Morris International Inc Pernod Ricard S.A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC 
If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award a suitable replacement will be made. For any 
corporate actions affecting a comparator group company during an award period the intention would be to mirror the actions of a 
passive investor, e.g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder 
of the award period.  
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather  
than those ruling on a single day. It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are 
declared ex-dividend. This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained 
for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations. All share prices and dividend flows are converted to sterling  
on the applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor. 
The TSR calculations themselves are performed independently by Alithos Limited. 
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Company’s performance in respect of the  
other elements. 
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator groups and vesting 
schedules for LTIP awards and decided that, notwithstanding the current conditions in financial markets, the three elements  
remain the most important measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement in shareholder value. The TSR criteria reflect 
comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies. The EPS criterion 
reflects a key part of the Group’s strategy to create sustainable shareholder value. 
Awards Under the Historical Structure 
For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion. This was seen 
as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and senior management could exercise influence. 
These awards vested on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted under the terms of the relevant  
protocol. The EPS calculations were confirmed by the Auditors. For awards granted between 2000 and 2002 no vesting occurred 
unless the Company’s Real Annual EPS Growth was positive. For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 no vesting occurred unless  
the Company’s Real Annual EPS Growth exceeded 3 per cent. Full vesting occurred if Real Annual EPS Growth was equal to or 
exceeded 10 per cent. Between these two points the award vested on a straight-line basis.   www.imperial-tobacco.com 63
Vesting of Awards 
On vesting a participant is granted an option to acquire the relevant number of shares. The option may be exercised at any time up to 
the seventh anniversary of its date of grant. Within this framework, for senior managers based outside the UK, the vesting process 
may be amended to conform to local tax and securities legislation. 
There is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.  
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest. This ensures 
that they only vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the 
Under the LTIP Rules, in the event that Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is acquired the relevant performance period would come to an 
end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the 
applicable performance criteria. 
Award Summary 
Award Years Award as Percentage of Base Salary Performance Criteria 
1996 – 1999 75 for all Executive Directors 100 per cent on TSR 
2000 – 2004 75 for all Executive Directors 100 per cent on EPS 
2005 onwards 
● 200 for Chief Executive 
● 150 for Finance Director 
● 100 for other Executive Directors 
● 50 per cent on EPS 
● 25 per cent on TSR against FTSE 100 
● 25 per cent on TSR against comparator group 
Executive Directors’ Conditional Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (Audited) 
 
Balance at 
1/10/2007 
Granted  
during year Date of grant 
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant
£
Vested 
during year
(9/11/2007)
Rights 
issue 
adjustment
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting
 £
Market 
price 
at date of 
exercise 
£
Lapsed 
during 
year 
Amount 
realised on 
exercise 
£’000 
Performance 
period
November– 
November
Mr G  
Davis 42,513 – 09/11/04 12.79(39,014) – 24.05 26.17 (3,499) 1,021 – 2004-2007
 96,594 – 02/11/05 16.15 –14,576 – –– – 111,170 2005-2008
 89,929 – 01/11/06 18.57 –13,570 – –– – 103,499 2006-2009
 – 76,730 31/10/07 24.47–11,578––– – 88,308 2007-2010
 229,036 76,730 – –(39,014)39,724 – –(3,499) – 302,977 –
Mr R  
Dyrbus 26,974 – 09/11/04 12.79(24,754) – 24.05 26.17(2,220) 648 – 2004-2007
 45,975 – 02/11/05 16.15 –6,937 – –– – 52,912 2005-2008
 42,810 – 01/11/06 18.57 –6,460 – –– – 49,270 2006-2009
 – 35,247 31/10/07 24.47–5,318––– – 40,565 2007-2010
 115,759 35,247 – – (24,754)18,715 – –(2,220) – 142,747 –
Mr G L 
Blashill 8,600 – 09/11/04 12.79 (7,892) – 24.05 26.17 (708) 207 – 2004-2007
 21,981 – 02/11/05 16.15 –3,316 – –– – 25,297 2005-2008
 21,001 – 01/11/06 18.57 –3,169 – –– – 24,170 2006-2009
 – 17,163 31/10/07 24.47–2,589––– – 19,752 2007-2010
 51,582 17,163 – –(7,892)9,074 – –(708) – 69,219 –
Mrs A J 
Cooper 9,773 – 09/11/04 12.79 (8,968) – 24.05 26.17 (805) 235 – 2004-2007
 13,003 – 02/11/05 16.15 –1,962 – –– – 14,965 2005-2008
 13,731 – 01/11/06 18.57 –2,072 – –– – 15,803 2006-2009
 – 17,368 31/10/07 24.47–2,620––– – 19,988 2007-2010
 36,507 17,368 – –(8,968)6,654 – –(805) – 50,756 –
Mr D 
Cresswell
2
 19,351 – 09/11/04 12.79(17,758) – 24.05 26.17(1,593) 465 – 2004-2007
 21,981 – 02/11/05 16.15 – – – –– – 21,981 2005-2008
 20,463 – 01/11/06 18.57 – – – –– – 20,463 2006-2009
 61,795 – – – (17,758)– – –(1,593) – 42,444 –
1 Or date of retirement if earlier. 
2 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ awards since 30 September 2008, other than the vesting of the November 2005 – 
November 2008 award detailed below. 
Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed. 
Balance at 
30/9/2008
1 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 64 
During the year, the November 2004 – November 2007 award vested partially. Real Annual EPS Growth over the period averaged 
9.42 per cent, resulting in partial vesting of the award. The remaining shares under award therefore lapsed.  
In respect of the November 2005 – November 2008 award, the first to be granted under the current structure described above, 
based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year, partial vesting of 93.9 per cent of the first element, 77.6 per cent 
of the second element and none of the third element vested on 25 November 2008. For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 
24 November 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was £15.77 valuing the awards as follows: 
Award lapsing
No. of shares
Award vesting  
No. of shares over  
which option granted 
Award vesting
Illustrative value 
£’000
Mr G Davis 37,436 73,734 1,163
Mr R Dyrbus 17,818 35,094 553
Mr G L Blashill 8,519 16,778 265
Mrs A J Cooper 5,039 9,926 157
The value of any options exercised could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements. 
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2006 – November 2009 and the November 2007 – November 2010 awards  
to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.  
However, in respect of the 2006 – 2009 award, based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2008 
full vesting of the first element, partial vesting of 72.0 per cent of the second element and none of the third element would occur if  
this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.  
In respect of the 2007 – 2010 award based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2008 partial 
vesting of 97.0 per cent of the first element, 63.6 per cent of the second element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would  
occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period. 
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows; 
 Potential awards vesting 
 November 2009 November 2010 
 No. of shares
Illustrative value
£’000 No. of shares 
Illustrative value
£’000
Mr G Davis 70,380 1,110 68,631 1,082
Mr R Dyrbus 33,505 528 31,527 497
Mr G L Blashill 16,436 259 15,350 242
Mrs A J Cooper 10,748 169 15,534 245
Evidence of the Group’s sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below. 
Total Return Indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 
100
150
200
250
300
350
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE 100
Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08
 
The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate 
performance of the Company, which is a constituent of that index and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP  
performance criterion.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 65
Share Matching Schemes (SMS) 
Under the SMS the Remuneration Committee at its absolute discretion invites Executive Directors and the majority of the Group’s 
management to invest any proportion of their gross bonus (capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and  
Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors) in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by a 
nominee managed by the Employee Benefit Trust. Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and  
the participant remains an employee in the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis. Employees can vote shares held  
in the nominee by giving written instructions to the nominee. 
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS a performance criterion is applied to the matched shares such 
that matching only occurs if the Group has achieved Real Average EPS Growth in excess of 3 per cent after adjusting for UK inflation 
over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery. Achievement measurement is based on 
the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP. There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met. In setting  
the performance criterion for SMS awards, the Remuneration Committee decided that EPS reflects a key part of the Group’s strategy 
to create sustainable shareholder value. 
Under the SMS Rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the  
date of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable 
performance criteria. 
The Executive Directors’ contingent rights to shares arising under the SMS are set out below: 
Executive Directors’ Contingent Rights to Shares under the Share Matching Schemes (Audited) 
 
Balance at 
1/10/2007 
Contingent  
rights arising 
Market price 
at date of 
grant
15/2/2008
£
Vested 
during year
Rights issue 
adjustment
Market price 
at date of 
vesting
29/01/2008 
£
Amount 
realised on 
vesting 
£’000 
Balance at 
30/9/2008
1
Actual/expected 
vesting date
Mr G Davis 36,059 – – (36,059) – 23.70 855 – January 2008
 31,698 – – – 4,187 – – 35,885 February 2009
 20,601 – – – 2,722 – – 23,323 February 2010
 – 33,441 23.97–4,418–– 37,859 February 2011
 88,358 33,441 –(36,059)11,327–855 97,067 
Mr R Dyrbus 22,947 – –(22,947) – 23.70 544 – January 2008
 20,111 – – – 2,657 – – 22,768 February 2009
 13,073 – – – 1,727 – – 14,800 February 2010
 – 21,226 23.97–2,804–– 24,030 February 2011
 56,131 21,226 –(22,947)7,188–544 61,598 
Mr G L Blashill 9,211 – – (9,211) – 23.70 218 – January 2008
 10,701 – – – 1,413 – – 12,114 February 2009
 9,360 – – – 1,237 – – 10,597 February 2010
 – 11,714 23.97–1,548–– 13,262 February 2011
 29,272 11,714 –(9,211)4,198–218 35,973 
Mrs A J Cooper 10,984 – – (10,984) 23.70 260 – January 2008
 9,988 – – – 1,320 – – 11,308 February 2009
 7,777 – – – 1,027 – – 8,804 February 2010
 – 10,040 23.97–1,326–– 11,366 February 2011
 28,749 10,040 –(10,984)3,673–260 31,478 
Mr D Cresswell
2
 14,893 – – – – – 14,893 January 2008
 13,109 – ––––– 13,109 February 2009
 9,376 – ––––– 9,376 February 2010
 37,378 – – – – – – 37,378 
1 Or date of retirement if earlier. 
2 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ contingent rights since 30 September 2008. 
During January 2008, annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2004 and lodged under the SMS for a three year 
period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a one for one basis. 
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2007 and paid in December 2007, the Executive Directors 
elected, in February 2008, to invest their entire bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS. 
These will be matched on a one for one basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee 
performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed  
to remain appropriate. These matching shares are shown within contingent rights arising above. 
in the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of 3 per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period. This 
–
– DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 66 
It is anticipated that, in February 2009, the Executive Directors will again invest their entire Financial Targets element of annual cash 
bonus earned in the financial year to 30 September 2008 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS. 
Share Options 
The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme. However, Executive Directors are eligible (along with all 
employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group, where possible) to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group 
PLC’s savings-related Sharesave Plan. Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing  
mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation,  
to participants who have contracted to save up to £250 per month over a period of three or five years. 
Executive Directors’ Share Options (Audited) 
 Gains on exercise
3
 
 
Balance at 
1/10/2007 
Granted 
during 
the year 
Rights 
issue 
adjustment 
Exercised 
during the
year
Market 
price at date 
of exercise 
19/08/2008
£
Balance 
at 
30/9/2008
1
Exercise
price (rebased 
where 
appropriate)
£
Range of exercisable  
dates of options held at  
30/9/2008
2
 
During the 
year
£’000
2007 
£’000
Mr G Davis 774 – 116 (890) 18.63 – 7.14
01/08/08 
– 31/01/09 10 –
 570 – 86 –– 656 14.96
01/08/12 
– 31/01/13 ––
 – 214 – –– 214 17.50
01/08/11 
– 31/01/12 ––
 1,344 214 202 (890)– 870 – 10 16
Mr R Dyrbus 402 – 60 – – 462 12.12
01/08/09 
– 31/01/10 ––
 219 – 33 –– 252 14.96
01/08/10 
– 31/01/11 ––
 621 – 93 –– 714 – – 4
Mr G L Blashill 807 – 121 – – 928 10.19
01/08/08 
– 31/01/09 ––
 – 537  –– 537 17.50
01/08/11 
– 31/01/12 ––
 807 537 121 –– 1,465 – – –
Mrs A J Cooper 670 – 101 – – 771 12.12
01/08/09 
– 31/01/10 ––
 670 – 101 –– 771 – – –
Mr D Cresswell
4
 548 – – – – 548 17.22
01/08/10 
– 31/01/11 ––
 548 – – –– 548 – – –
1 Or date of retirement, if earlier. 
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire. 
3 Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise. Aggregate gains during the year were £10,226 (2007: £47,557). 
4 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. 
There have been no changes in any Directors’ share options since 30 September 2008. 
The Company’s middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2008, being the last trading day of the  
financial year, was £17.97 and the range of the middle market price during the year was £16.27 to £23.95 (£27.52 unadjusted  
for the rights issue). 
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at the Company’s 
registered office. 
Award Dates 
It is the Group’s policy to grant awards under all its employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.   
www.imperial-tobacco.com 67
Employee Benefit Trusts 
The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust (the Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 
Employee Benefit Trust (the 2001 Trust) have been established to acquire ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares in the 
Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares and American Depositary Shares 
arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.  
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: 
 
Balance at 
1/10/2007
Purchased 
during year
Distributed 
during year
Balance at 
30/9/2008 
Shares under 
Award at 
30/9/2008
Surplus/ 
(Shortfall)
Executive Trust  994,613 407,854 301,080 1,101,387 938,945 162,442
2001 Trust 3,761,126 1,245,014 1,201,443 3,804,697 4,523,942 (719,245)
As at 30 September 2008, the Company also held 51,717,000 shares in Treasury which may be used to satisfy options and awards 
under its share plans. Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new shares directly from the Company. 
Share Plan Flow Rates 
The Company’s policy has always been to satisfy all awards under its share plans from market purchased shares through the Trusts.  
The Trust Deeds and the Rules of all plans contain provisions limiting awards to 5 per cent in five years and 10 per cent in ten years 
for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in ten years for executive plans. Currently an aggregate total of 
only 0.51 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital is subject to awards under all the Group’s executive and all employee share 
plans. In future the Trusts may also be provided with shares held by the Company in Treasury in order to satisfy vesting awards. 
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital. 
Summary of Awards Granted 
Limit on awards 
Cumulative Awards granted as a  
percentage of issued share capital
Awards granted during the year as a 
percentage of issued share capital
10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2
5% in 5 years 0.9 0.2
5% in 10 years (executive schemes) 1.1 0.1
Executive Directors’ Pensions  
Post 6 April 2006 (‘A’ day) the Group’s UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to 
maintain membership of or join (new employees) the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of 
membership of the Fund. 
The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by  
the Group. For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.  
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age usually after  
32 years service. Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.  
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two-thirds  
of the member’s expected pension at retirement. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the member’s  
pre-commutation pension is payable. Dependent children will also receive allowances. 
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under  
the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to  
15 per cent. 
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) which abolished most of the detailed limits 
previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a more simplified approach. Each member now has a Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA), £1.65 million for retirements in the tax year 2008/2009 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at 
retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount. For any member whose total benefit value on  
6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject 
to a large retrospective lifetime allowance charge. To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of fund 
membership as regards future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.  
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60. Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each  
of the current Executive Directors has opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for 
enhanced protection with HMRC. The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible in 
some rare circumstances for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the fund. In this 
event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme (UURBS) so 
that the full accrued benefit may be provided. 
Since demerger in 1996 the cumulative awards under all of the Company’s share plans total 2.4 per cent of its issued share capital.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 68 
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and 
arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary. Mrs A J Cooper  
is also in receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRC s earnings cap. 
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund did not disapply it in respect of past 
pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable 
50 per cent spouse s pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. As an alternative to  
extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of  
this amount. 
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of  
which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers National Insurance contributions. The supplements  
are non-compensatory and non-pensionable. 
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and 
gives details for each Director of: 
> the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he had left service at the year end (any potential UURBS 
entitlement is included); 
> the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under  
the Listing Rules; and 
> the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11. 
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions. 
Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited) 
   Listing Rules 
 Accrued pension £’000 Transfer value of accrued pension £’000 
 
Age at 
30/9/2008 
Years 
Pensionable 
service at 
30/9/2008 
Years 
At 
1/10/2007 
Increase 
during the 
year
At
30/9/2008
At
1/10/2007
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
during the 
year net of 
Directors’ 
contributions
Director’s 
contribution 
At 
30/9/2008 
Increase in 
accrued 
pension 
(net of 
inflation) 
during the 
year
£’000
Transfer 
value of 
increase 
(net of 
inflation)
£’000
Mr G Davis 58 36 557 69 626 10,061 (467) – 9,594 47 715
Mr R Dyrbus 55 26 268 23 291 4,185 (213) – 3,972 12 164
Mrs A J Cooper 42 9 37 11 48 317 23 12 352 9 68
Mr G L Blashill
1
 61 40 260 20 2805,206 (401) – 4,805 9 151
Former Director      
Mr D Cresswell
1
 63 45 253 4 2574,799 (650) – 4,149 4 64
1 Mr Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill drew pension during the course of the year, as is permitted under the fund rules. Mr Cresswell left 
employment on 31 December 2007, and Mr Blashill was still in employment as at 30 September 2008. The transfer value figures in the table above incorporate allowance for the benefits paid out in 
order to provide a relevant comparison with the start of the year figures and have been calculated consistently with those disclosed at 30 September 2007. 
 
 As at 30 September 2007, a slightly different methodology was used to calculate transfer values for pensioner members and this gave transfer values at 30 September 2007 of £5,161,000 for  
Mr Cresswell and £5,728,000 for Mr Blashill. The accrued pensions at 30 September 2008 represent the benefits accrued, assuming that they first started to draw pension from that date  
(31 December 2007 for Mr Cresswell). This is consistent with those figures disclosed at 30 September 2007. 
 
 The transfer values disclosed at 30 September 2008 have been calculated using the amended transfer value basis introduced in July 2008 following a review by the Scheme Actuary. The combined 
effect of changing market conditions over the course of the year and the revised basis has been to reduce transfer values, leading to some negative changes under the Directors' Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 despite the increase in accrued pensions. 
Other than including an allowance for the benefits drawn by Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill during the year, the transfer values 
disclosed above do not represent the value of a potential liability of the pension scheme. 
Benefits 
The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of company cars and health insurance. 
Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships 
The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and  
the Company. At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such  
non-executive directorship. Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not  
serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company. 
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received fees of £70,300. 
Disclosures required under Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 
salary in excess of the Fund s earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1/60ths with a  ’
’
’
’  
www.imperial-tobacco.com 69
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson 
Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect 
that. The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Company’s established policy that Executive Directors  
have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment  
of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. 
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors’ service agreements,  
save as set out in the table below. The Executive Directors’ service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions  
but these are at the Company’s sole discretion. The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited 
respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken 
into account in every case. The Group’s policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that  
they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid 
monthly in arrears.  
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, 
redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of 
control, on a time-related pro-rata basis and subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria. If, however, the termination  
of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individual’s full award lapses. 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements  
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control
Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice
Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice
Payment of a liquidated sum calculated 
by reference to benefits receivable 
during the notice period
Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice No provisions
Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice No provisions
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions 
contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board following 
recommendation from the Remuneration Committee. The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not take part in discussions 
relating to their own remuneration. They receive no other material pay or benefits (with the exception of reimbursement of expenses 
incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company 
offices by the Vice Chairman Mr A G L Alexander (until his retirement on 29 January 2008)), do not participate in the Company’s 
share plans, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership. 
To align further the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees 
be applied, after statutory deductions, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. These shares are to be held by a nominee 
during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship. Exceptionally, in respect of Mr A G L Alexander (up to the date of his retirement), 
this requirement was waived due to his continued level of investment, as detailed above.  
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within  
the Reemtsma group. He was also appointed as a non-executive director of Altadis, S.A. upon its acquisition by the Group  
in January 2008 until 5 November 2008. Mr S Huismans receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles. 
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company. 
The terms of their appointments are reviewed annually. These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed  
on 29 January 2008. The letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company’s registered office during normal business 
hours, and prior to and at the AGM. Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand  
for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to triennial re-election by shareholders. There are no provisions 
regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Non-Executive Director will only receive payment until  
the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination. The letters of appointment detail the  
time commitment expected of each Non-Executive Director.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT: GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
 
70
Although currently there is no maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best 
practice provisions contained in the Code. However, where the Board considers a Non-Executive Director is making a particularly 
valuable contribution, they may be invited to remain on the Board in excess of nine years. In such instances the length of tenure of 
the Non-Executive Director would be relevant to the Company’s deliberations as to the independence of the Non-Executive Director 
and he/she would also be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.  
Consultancy Agreement with Non-Executive Director 
Mr J-D Comolli 
In addition to his appointment as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Mr Comolli has entered into an agreement with Imperial Tobacco 
Limited, the Group’s principal operating company. 
The agreement terminates on 31 January 2009 but may be renewed by mutual consent for further one year periods. In the event  
that Mr Comolli ceases to be Deputy Chairman, the agreement terminates with immediate effect but Mr Comolli would receive fees 
for the remainder of the relevant one year period. 
Remuneration Arrangements for Former Executive Directors 
Dr F A Rogerson 
Dr F A Rogerson resigned as a director on 27 June 2007 for personal and private reasons. Under his contract of employment,  
Dr Rogerson was required to give 12 months’ notice to terminate his employment. Dr Rogerson completed a handover period  
and was on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment terminated. 
Dr Rogerson was excluded from the 2007/2008 bonus scheme and did not receive any bonus payment in respect of that bonus 
year. He was also excluded from any invitations to the LTIP and SMS from his Board resignation date. 
The Remuneration Committee agreed that the awards granted to Dr Rogerson under the LTIP and the shares awarded to him  
under the SMS would vest, to the extent that the applicable performance conditions were satisfied, pro rata for the period up to  
31 December 2007. 
No compensation has been paid to Dr Rogerson in connection with the termination of his employment. 
Dr Rogerson opted out of pension fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced 
protection with HMRC from 6 April 2006. Dr Rogerson was in receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of future pension service accrual 
of 16.4 per cent of salary. This amount was a non-pensionable payment. It was agreed with Dr Rogerson that this salary supplement 
ceased to be paid on 30 December 2007 and that no salary supplement would be paid for the remainder of his notice period. 
Mr S T Painter 
Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the 
Group’s principal operating company. 
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007. Under the terms of the agreement he provided 
consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of £1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 
12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007. Mr S T Painter is still providing 
consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of £1,000. However, there is now no minimum fee. He is entitled  
to reimbursement for the use of his car. 
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma and, between January and October 2008, Altadis 
groups for which he receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles. 
Mr M A Häussler  
Mr M A Häussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it has been taken before he reached 
his normal retirement age. His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to 
those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement. This was a 
pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension for life of  
60 per cent of that amount would be payable. The pension is made up of two parts: one part payable from the unfunded pension 
arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, the other part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension 
Fund. The pension payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased 
annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law.  
For the Board 
 
P H Jungels 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
26 November 2008 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 
€ Under this agreement he provides consultancy services to the Group and receives fees up to a maximum of   850,000 per annum.  In this section:
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC 72
Consolidated Income Statement 74
Consolidated Balance Sheet 75
Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense 76
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76
Accounting Policies 77
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 83
Notes to the Financial Statements 85
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC 127
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Balance Sheet 128
Notes to the Imperial Tobacco 
Group PLC Balance Sheet 129
Financial
Statements Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes. These Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 
30 September 2008 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Company’s members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group ﬁnancial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group financial
statements. The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that specific information presented in the Strategic 
and Financial Review and Operating Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined
Code (2006) speciﬁed for our Review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement, the Strategic and Financial
Review, the Operating Review, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited parts of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the Group ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial
statements. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation 
of the Group ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group ﬁnancial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 
of the presentation of information in the Group ﬁnancial statements. www.imperial-tobacco.com 73
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
> the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and article 
4 of the IAS regulation; and
> the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Bristol
26 November 2008
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2008
74 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
In £s million Notes 2008 2007
Revenue 1 20,528 12,344
Duty and similar items (10,412) (9,064)
Other cost of sales (6,253) (990)
Cost of sales (16,665) (10,054)
Gross proﬁt 3,863 2,290
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (1,462) (659)
Administrative and other expenses (1,244) (213)
Proﬁt from operations 1 1,157 1,418
Investment income 5 402 318
Finance costs 5 (938) (499)
Net ﬁnance costs 5 (536) (181)
Proﬁt before taxation 2 621 1,237
Taxation 6 (180) (325)
Proﬁt for the year 441 912
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 428 905
Minority interests 13 7
Earnings per ordinary share*
– Basic 8 50.6p 116.7p
– Diluted 8 50.4p 116.2p
All activities derive from continuing operations.
* Comparative per share ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the bonus element of the rights issue described in notes 8 and 20.
Reconciliation from proﬁt from operations to adjusted proﬁt from operations
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
In £s million Notes 2008 2007
Proﬁt from operations 1,157 1,418 
Acquisition accounting adjustments 161 – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 9 309 23 
Brand divestment gain 2 (174) – 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 314 34 
Restructuring costs 3 463 – 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 2,230 1,475 
Reconciliation from net ﬁnance costs to adjusted net ﬁnance costs
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
In £s million 2008 2007
Net ﬁnance costs (536) (181)
Fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments (42) (2)
Retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income (45) (54)
Adjusted net ﬁnance costs (623) (237) Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 30 September 2008
www.imperial-tobacco.com 75
30 September 30 September
In £s million Notes 2008 2007
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 19,792 4,950 
Property, plant and equipment 10 1,822 640 
Investments in associates 11 16 4 
Retirement beneﬁt assets 18 441 602 
Trade and other receivables 13 98 7 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 76 – 
Deferred tax assets 17 392 52 
22,637 6,255 
Current assets
Inventories 12 2,858 998 
Trade and other receivables 13 2,951 1,254 
Current tax assets 6 31 50 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 642 380 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 97 71 
6,579 2,753 
Total assets 29,216 9,008 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (2,678) (1,067)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 (238) (219)
Trade and other payables 15 (6,183) (1,593)
Finance lease liabilities 28 (2) – 
Current tax liabilities 6 (370) (267)
Provisions 19 (187) (26)
(9,658) (3,172)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (9,558) (4,053)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 (2) – 
Trade and other payables 15 (14) (5)
Finance lease liabilities 28 (24) – 
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (2,294) (208)
Retirement beneﬁt liabilities 18 (546) (397)
Provisions 19 (764) (32)
(13,202) (4,695)
Total liabilities (22,860) (7,867)
Net assets 6,356 1,141 
Equity
Share capital 20 107 73 
Share premium account 22 5,833 964 
Retained earnings 22 (109) 58 
Exchange translation reserve 22 476 23 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 6,307 1,118 
Minority interests 23 49 23 
Total equity 6,356 1,141
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 74 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2008 and signed on its behalf by:
Iain Napier Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
for the year ended 30 September 2008
76 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
In £s million 2008 2007
Exchange movements 541 58 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement beneﬁts (156) 202 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial losses/(gains) on retirement beneﬁts 57 (59)
Deferred tax on share-based payments (6) – 
Current tax on share-based payments 1 5 
Current tax on exchange movements (88) – 
Net income recognised directly in equity 349 206 
Proﬁt for the year 441 912 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 790 1,118 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 777 1,111 
Minority interests 13 7 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 790 1,118
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2008
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
In £s million Notes 2008 2007
Cash ﬂows from operating activities 27 1,700 999 
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Interest received 101 15 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (214) (128)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 34 5 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (12) (5)
Purchase of intangible assets – trademarks (5) (5)
Proceeds from brand divestment 191 – 
Purchase of businesses – net of cash acquired 24 (9,642) (966)
Proceeds from sale of businesses – net of cash disposed 222 – 
Net cash used in investing activities (9,325) (1,084)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Interest paid (608) (227)
Purchase of treasury shares – (105)
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 5 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (26) (55)
Proceeds from rights issue 4,903 – 
Settlement of exchange rate derivative ﬁnancial instruments 13 – 
Increase in borrowings 13,815 2,324 
Repayment of borrowings (9,646) (1,317)
Increase in collateralisation deposits (188) – 
Repayment of obligations under ﬁnance leases (1) – 
Dividends paid to minority interests (9) (4)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company (487) (434)
Net cash generated by ﬁnancing activities 7,771 189 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 146 104 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 380 263 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 116 13 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 642 380  Accounting Policies
www.imperial-tobacco.com 77
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC
interpretations as endorsed by the European Union (collectively IFRS) and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies 
on ﬁnancial instruments, retirement beneﬁt schemes and share schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the
date of the ﬁnancial statements. The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
note on pages 83 and 84. Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are
believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute management’s best judgement at the date of the ﬁnancial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. This could affect future ﬁnancial statements 
as the original estimates and assumptions are modiﬁed, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its subsidiary
undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and
operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of the acquisition over
the Group’s share of the fair value of the net identiﬁable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transactions with
minority interests are treated as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated; unrealised losses
are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 131 and 132.
Joint Ventures
Joint ventures are those businesses which management and third parties jointly control. The ﬁnancial statements of joint ventures 
are consolidated using the proportionate method, with the Group’s share of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet
classiﬁed according to their nature. In the same way, the Group’s share of income and expenses is presented in the consolidated
income statement in accordance with their function.
If necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of these companies to unify their accounting policies with those 
used by the Group.
Foreign Currency
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the company operates (the functional currency).
The income and cash ﬂow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling (the
Group’s presentation currency) at average rates of exchange in each period. Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated
at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The differences between retained proﬁts and losses translated at average 
and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year. 
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity. As permitted by
IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date 
of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation 
at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised
in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets 
of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after deducting permanent intragroup loans. Gains or losses 
on these hedges are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.  Accounting Policies continued
78 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revenue Recognition
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates 
and discounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, 
the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured. Sales of services, which
include fees for distributing third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered. Licence
fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates 
and discounts. The Logistics business only recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts 
as a commission agent. Distribution and marketing commissions are included in revenue. Revenue is recognised on products 
on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
Duty and Similar Items
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production tax, 
duty is included in the income statement as an expense. Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from revenue. Payments 
due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are treated 
as a production tax.
Taxes
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial
statements and the tax base. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable proﬁt or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be
available against which the assets can be realised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax is determined
using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when 
the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries (including overseas subsidiaries), except
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it 
is recognised in equity.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends
are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible Assets – Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair value of the net identiﬁable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised. Previously all goodwill was written off through
equity in the period of acquisition. As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in
accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment
and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement 
and cannot be subsequently reversed. Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment 
testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined 
by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group company’s assets and liabilities including the carrying amount 
of related goodwill. Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement 
on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible Assets – Other
Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business
combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value. They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair
value (depending on how they are acquired) less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and computer
software. The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to have indeﬁnite
lives based on the fact that they are established international brands with global potential. Trademarks with indeﬁnite lives are not
amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment. Other trademarks, supply agreements (including customer relationships) and
computer software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Other trademarks up to 30 years straight line
Supply agreements 3 – 15 years straight line
Computer software up to 5 years straight line www.imperial-tobacco.com 79
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of 
a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value. They are shown in the balance sheet at historical 
cost or fair value (depending on how they are acquired), less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the assets’ carrying amounts
or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts associated with them will ﬂow
to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income
statement as incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each
asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years straight line
Plant and equipment 2 – 20 years straight line / reducing balance
Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 – 14 years straight line
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the income
statement.
Finance Leases
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases are included within property, plant and equipment. They are initially valued at the lower of fair
value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the
useful life of the asset. The associated lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet, and the interest element of the leasing
payments is charged to the income statement.
Impairment of Assets
Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to
amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and 
the value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately
identiﬁable cash ﬂows (cash-generating units).
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant
instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to receive beneﬁts have expired or been transferred, and the Group
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the obligation is
extinguished.
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed as loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents). Receivables are initially
recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount
of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows, and is
recognised in the income statement. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective
interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs.
The Group transacts derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative ﬁnancial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are
included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant. However, as the
Group has decided (as permitted under IAS 39) not to cash ﬂow or fair value hedge account for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments,
changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise unless the derivative qualiﬁes as a net
investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in equity.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) method. 
The cost of ﬁnished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production
overheads (based on normal operating capacity) but excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classiﬁed as a current asset, consistent with
recognised industry practice.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is more likely than not that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount
can be made. Accounting Policies continued
80 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring
has either commenced or has been publicly announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be implemented, and the
amount required to settle any obligations arising can be reliably estimated. Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outﬂow will be required in settlement is determined by
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outﬂow with respect to any 
one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁt schemes for its employees, including both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned
contribution schemes.
Under a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme, the amount of retirement beneﬁt that will be received by an employee is deﬁned. The amount
recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet 
date and the fair value of the scheme assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outﬂows.
The service cost of providing retirement beneﬁts to employees during the year is charged to proﬁt from operations.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees
remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the average vesting period. All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected
returns on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in full in the
statement of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the retirement beneﬁt schemes during the year is included within net
ﬁnance costs. This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the ﬁnancial year. A charge is also made
within net ﬁnance costs for the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement beneﬁt schemes during the year. This arises from
the schemes being one year closer to payment. 
For deﬁned contribution schemes, the Group pays a deﬁned contribution to the scheme; there are no further payment obligations
once these contributions have been paid. Such contributions are recognised as an employee beneﬁt expense when they are due. 
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
Share-Based Payments
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” to share-based employee compensation schemes in respect
of awards granted after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates speciﬁed in IFRS 1.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation schemes. The cost of employees’ services received
in exchange for the grant of rights under both types of scheme is expensed over the vesting period, and is determined by reference
to the fair value of the instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (e.g. earnings per share). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to become
exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to become
exercisable under all schemes, and re-measures the fair value of the cash-settled schemes. The Group recognises the impact of the
revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes
and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes. The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into
account the terms and conditions of the award.
In order to manage the related exposure, the Group funds the purchase of the number of shares necessary to satisfy rights to shares
arising under share-based employee compensation schemes. Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share
Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders 
of the Company. No additional shares are issued as a result of the Group’s share-based employee compensation schemes. When 
the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of any proceeds received.
Share Capital
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to the 
equity holders of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold 
or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax
effects, is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company. www.imperial-tobacco.com 81
Segmental Reporting
A business segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services that are subject 
to risks and returns that are different to those of other business segments.
The two distinct businesses of Tobacco and Logistics have been used as the primary reporting segments. Transactions between
segments are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reﬂecting market prices for comparable products and services.
Use of Adjusted Measures
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reﬂects 
the way in which the business is controlled. Accordingly, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit 
before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, retirement benefits net financing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in
respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation
effects. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations are included within note 1 to the ﬁnancial statements,
adjusted and reported net ﬁnance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per
share in note 8. The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁned terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly
titled measures reported by other companies.
The principal adjustments made to reported proﬁts are as follows:
Acquisition Accounting Adjustments
There are a number of acquisition accounting adjustments required under IFRS which affect reported proﬁt from operations. The
most signiﬁcant of these are one-off adjustments related to the adjustment to fair value stocks held in the acquired company at the
date of acquisition, and the elimination of intercompany sales.
Prior to the acquisition of Altadis, Imperial Tobacco sold products to Altadis, principally to the logistics business for distribution in
France, Spain, Italy and Portugal, and recognised proﬁt at the time of sale to Altadis. Following the acquisition the enlarged Group
recognises these proﬁts when the products are sold out of the enlarged Group, so there is an initial post acquisition period during
which no proﬁt is recognised. These one-off effects have no impact on the performance of the business or on cash ﬂow.
Consequently we exclude these adjustments and their related taxation effects from our adjusted earnings measures.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite. Acquired
intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised. We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles and tax
deductible goodwill. The deferred tax liability is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the entities. 
The related current cash tax beneﬁt is retained in the adjusted measure to reﬂect the ongoing tax beneﬁt to the Group. Impairment
of goodwill is also excluded from our adjusted measures.
Brand Divestment
The Group was required to divest a small number of ﬁne cut and pipe tobacco brands as a condition of the European
Commission’s approval of the acquisition of Altadis. Imperial Tobacco brands were internally generated so did not have a carrying
value. This one-off gain and its related taxation effects have no impact on the operational performance of the business and have
consequently been excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, and that changes 
in the fair value are recognised in the income statement unless the instrument qualiﬁes for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging
requirements of IAS 39 lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, 
and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting. We exclude fair
value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments used to commercially hedge interest rate risk from adjusted net ﬁnancing
costs. We also exclude fair value gains on derivative ﬁnancial instruments used to commercially hedge investments in foreign
operations from adjusted proﬁt from operations.
Restructuring Costs
Signiﬁcant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related
tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Retirement Beneﬁts Net Financing Income
The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement beneﬁt liabilities is included within net ﬁnance costs. Since these
items do not impact cash ﬂows and can be subject to signiﬁcant volatility outside management’s control they have been eliminated
from adjusted measures of net ﬁnance costs and earnings per share together with their related tax effects. Accounting Policies continued
82 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management
Net Revenue
Net revenue comprises the Tobacco segment revenue less duty and similar items. Management considers this an important measure
in assessing the proﬁtability of Tobacco operations.
Distribution Fees
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue excluding the cost of distributed products. Management considers this 
an important measure in assessing the proﬁtability of Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of interest
rate derivative ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁnance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards
The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions
Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
The following standards and interpretations were issued but application was not mandatory for the period:
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment – vesting conditions and cancellations
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction 
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the net assets or results of the Group other than IFRS 3 (Revised) which may have a material impact on the reporting 
of future acquisitions. Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements
www.imperial-tobacco.com 83
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have 
a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year 
are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings
In accordance with IFRS, the Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic
beneﬁts is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be reliably estimated. In such instances a provision is calculated and
recorded in the ﬁnancial statements. In instances where these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes
to the ﬁnancial statements.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group; or a present obligation arising
from past events that is not recognised in the ﬁnancial statements because it is not probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with 
sufﬁcient reliability.
Realisation of any contingent liabilities not currently recognised or disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements could have a material effect 
on the Group’s ﬁnancial condition.
Application of these accounting principles to legal proceedings, including cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged
smoking and health-related effects, is inherently difﬁcult, given the complex nature of the facts and law involved. Deciding whether or
not to provide for loss in connection with such claims requires the Group’s management to make determinations about various factual
and legal matters beyond its control.
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal proceedings and at each balance sheet date, in order
to assess the need for provisions in its ﬁnancial statements. Among the factors considered in making decisions on provisions are 
the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, the legal processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which 
the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought, the progress of the case (including progress after the date of the financial
statements but before those statements are issued), the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, experience of 
similar cases and any decision of the Group’s management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Group’s determinations at any time do not reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome 
of any claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, with an adverse impact upon the Group’s profit from
operations, financial position and liquidity.
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-
related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being
vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the
pending actions will not have an adverse effect upon the revenue, profit or financial condition of the Group. Consequently, 
in respect of any such cases, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
In August 2003 the Group received a notice from the Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (“OFT”) requiring the provision of documents and
information relating to an investigation under UK competition law. In April 2008 the OFT released a press statement indicating that 
it proposed to issue a statement of objections (“SO”) to a number of retailers and two tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial
Tobacco. Imperial Tobacco’s detailed written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT in August 2008. An oral hearing has been
scheduled for 3 December 2008 for Imperial Tobacco’s representatives to make submissions to the OFT in defence of its allegations.
No timetable for the remainder of the OFT’s enquiry has been published. In light of the responses it receives to the SO, the OFT may
decide to close the investigation, present additional evidence by issuing a supplemental SO, or proceed to an infringement decision.
In the event that the OFT decides that Imperial Tobacco has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a ﬁne, calculated by
reference to ITG turnover.
If the OFT were subsequently to make an infringement ﬁnding against ITG, the Group would be able to appeal the ﬁnding to the
Competition Appeal Tribunal (“CAT”). The CAT has the right to conduct a full rehearing of the facts considered by the OFT and
overturn or adjust any penalty that the OFT imposed. There is a further right to appeal from the CAT to the Court of Appeal, which 
is limited to appeal on a point of law. In respect of the OFT enquiry, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements in this or any preceding year. Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued
84 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets (other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks) and property, plant
and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based on management’s estimates of the period
over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. Due to the long lives of
certain assets, changes to the estimates used can result in signiﬁcant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or depreciation
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important
that could trigger an impairment review include the following:
> signiﬁcant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results;
> signiﬁcant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; and
> signiﬁcant negative industry or economic trends.
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indeﬁnite lived assets are subject to impairment review. The Group’s management
undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. When it is determined that there is an indicator that the carrying value may not be recoverable, impairment
is measured based on estimates of the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of the cash-generating unit.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application 
of the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported 
in the ﬁnancial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets. 
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, 
it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these ﬁnancial statements.
Retirement Beneﬁts
The costs, assets and liabilities of the deﬁned beneﬁt retirement schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods
relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions. Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18. The Group takes advice from
independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions. It is important to note, however, that comparatively small
changes in the assumptions used may have a signiﬁcant effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
We estimate that a 0.5% increase/(decrease) in the discount rate would increase/(decrease) the IAS19 pension expense by
approximately £1 million. We estimate that a 0.5% decrease/(increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase/(reduce) 
the IAS19 pension expense by approximately £16 million.
Restructuring Provisions
The consultation process regarding the European integration projects announced in June 2008 is still underway. As a consequence,
the nature, timing and cost of the projects may change. In addition, estimates of cost are dependent on assumptions about those
employees affected, values of redundant, obsolete or surplus assets, and actuarial assumptions around pension adjustments and
social plan costs. Comparatively small changes in assumptions used may have a signiﬁcant effect on the eventual cost of the
projects.
Income Taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and signiﬁcant judgement is required in determining the provision for
tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course 
of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to
become due. Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences
will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
See note 6 to these ﬁnancial statements. Notes to the Financial Statements
www.imperial-tobacco.com 85
1. Segmental Information
Following the acquisition of Altadis, Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses – Tobacco and Logistics – which have been
used as the basis for the primary segment reporting below. The Tobacco segment comprises the manufacture, marketing and sale of
tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales to (but not by) the Logistics segment. The Logistics segment comprises the
distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-
tobacco products and services. Central costs of the Enlarged Group are allocated to the Tobacco and Logistics segments based on
management’s assessment of the level of support provided to each business segment. The business segments presented reﬂect the
management structure of the Group and the way in which the Group’s management reviews business performance. Transactions
between segments are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reﬂecting market prices for comparable products and services.
Prior to the Altadis acquisition, Imperial Tobacco Group undertook a single principal activity, being the manufacture, marketing 
and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products. Comparative data for 2007 is consequently shown as Tobacco.
Segmental revenue
2008 2007
In £s million Tobacco Logistics Eliminations Total Tobacco 
External revenue 14,967 5,561 – 20,528 12,344 
Inter-segment revenue 683 – (683) – – 
Total segment revenues 15,650 5,561 (683) 20,528 12,344 
Segmental proﬁt from operations and reconciliation to adjusted proﬁt from operations
2008 2007
In £s million Tobacco Logistics Eliminations Unallocated Total Tobacco 
Proﬁt from operations 1,531 23 (83) (314) 1,157 1,418 
Acquisition accounting adjustments 76 – 85 – 161 – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 225 84 – – 309 23 
Brand divestment gain (174) – – – (174) – 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments – – – 314 314 34 
Restructuring costs 449 14 – – 463 – 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 2,107 121 2 – 2,230 1,475
Fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments for 2008 are shown as unallocated as they cannot reasonably be
allocated between the Tobacco and Logistics segments.
Segmental assets and liabilities
2008 2007
In £s million Tobacco Logistics Eliminations Total Tobacco
Operating assets 22,741 6,082 (845) 27,978 8,455 
Unallocated assets:
Cash and cash equivalents n/a n/a n/a 642 380 
Taxation n/a n/a n/a 423 102 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments n/a n/a n/a 173 71 
Total assets n/a n/a n/a 29,216 9,008 
Operating liabilities (3,692) (4,092) 64 (7,720) (2,053)
Unallocated liabilities:
Borrowings n/a n/a n/a (12,236) (5,120)
Taxation n/a n/a n/a (2,664) (475)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments n/a n/a n/a (240) (219)
Total liabilities n/a n/a n/a (22,860) (7,867)
Other segmental information
Additions to property, plant and equipment 184 30 – 214 128 
Additions to intangible assets 12 5 – 17 10 
Depreciation 108 15 – 123 88 
Amortisation 207 89 – 296 27 
Impairments 38 – – 38 –  Notes to the Financial Statements continued
86 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Segmental Information continued
Geographical information
2008 Rest of
In £s million European Union Americas the World Total
External revenue 17,012 874 2,642 20,528
Operating assets by location 20,407 3,317 4,254 27,978
Additions to property, plant and equipment 151 2 61 214
Additions to intangible assets 17 – – 17 
European Union comprises the EU member states plus Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. Americas comprises North,
Central and South America. The Cuban joint ventures are included in the Rest of the World.
2007 Rest of
In £s million European Union Americas the World Total
External revenue 10,358 270 1,716 12,344 
Operating assets by location 5,418 1,035 2,002 8,455 
Additions to property, plant and equipment 85 2 41 128 
Additions to intangible assets 4 5 1 10 
Further segmental and geographical analysis of results
To aid understanding of our 2008 results, we present below the contribution of the two businesses combined, comprising 
the standalone Imperial Tobacco and Altadis businesses; further details of the results of the Tobacco and Logistics segments, 
a geographic breakdown of the existing Imperial Tobacco business (excluding Altadis), a divisional analysis of the Altadis result 
using Altadis’ historical divisions, and ﬁnally a regional analysis of the Tobacco segment for the enlarged Group. 
Two businesses combined
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
In £s million 2008 2007
Imperial 1,578 1,475 
Altadis 641 – 
Eliminations 11 – 
2,230 1,475 
Tobacco segment 
In £s million unless otherwise indicated 2008 2007
Revenue 15,650 12,344 
Net revenue 5,238 3,280 
Proﬁt from operations 1,531 1,418 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 2,107 1,475 
Adjusted operating margin 40.2% 45.0%
Logistics segment
In £s million unless otherwise indicated 2008 2007
Revenue 5,561 – 
Distribution fees 607 – 
Proﬁt from operations 23 – 
Adjusted proﬁt from operations 121 – 
Adjusted distribution margin 19.9% – 
Imperial Tobacco regional results (excluding Altadis)
Revenue Net revenue Adjusted proﬁt from operations
In £s million 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
UK 4,711 4,842 869 876 570 564 
Germany 2,848 2,645 567 524 267 238 
Rest of Western Europe 1,916 1,746 665 635 332 326 
USA 548 266 239 117 115 52 
Rest of the World 3,571 2,845 1,314 1,128 294 295 
13,594 12,344 3,654 3,280 1,578 1,475  www.imperial-tobacco.com 87
Altadis divisional results
Adjusted 
From 25 January 2008 Net Distribution proﬁt from
In £s million Revenue revenue fees operations
Cigarette 1,5421,092 429
Cigar 487464 120 
Logistics 641 139 
Other (37)
Eliminations (10)
641
New geographic analysis of Tobacco 2008
Adjusted 
Net proﬁt from
In £s million Revenue revenue operations
UK 4,711 869 584 
Germany 2,945 664 309
Spain 411 411 150
Rest of European Union 4,067 1,250 494
Americas 874 542 166
Rest of the World 2,642 1,502 404
15,650 5,238 2,107 
2. Proﬁt Before Taxation
Proﬁt before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
In £s million 2008 2007
Raw materials and consumables used 1,046 643 
Employment costs (note 4) 971 471 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 123 88 
Amortisation of intangible assets 296 27 
Impairment of intangible assets 21 – 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 – 
Operating lease charges:
– plant and equipment 10 2 
– other assets 12 11 
Net foreign exchange losses 326 22 
Write-down of inventories 19 5 
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) (2)
Repairs and maintenance costs 25 19 
Impairment of trade receivables 12 1 
Brand divestment gain (174) – 
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates
In £s million 2008 2007
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of the Company 0.9 0.9 
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of associates of the Company 4.0 2.2 
Fees for other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1.1 0.4 
6.0 3.5 
Other services relating to taxation 3.1 1.3 
Services relating to corporate ﬁnance transactions 0.2 0.2 
Other services 0.1 0.1 
9.4 5.1 
Of the above fees £1.8 million (2007: £0.6 million) has been capitalised in the balance sheet.
It is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund to appoint the auditors to the scheme. The
Board of Trustees acts independently of Group management. The fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of the audit 
of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund were £25,170 (2007: £26,400). Notes to the Financial Statements continued
88 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. Restructuring Costs
In £s million 2008 2007
Employment related (mainly termination) 420 – 
Asset impairments 17 – 
Other operating charges 26 – 
463 – 
Restructuring costs relate primarily to European Integration projects announced in June 2008 as part of the integration of Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis. They affect sales and marketing, manufacturing and central support functions in a number of markets and will 
be implemented progressively over the next three years. In addition to the European integration projects, restructuring costs include
expenses relating to the closure of our cigar factory in Selma, Alabama, USA, the integration of the recently acquired Lignum 2
operation with Commonwealth Brands, and costs in relation to streamlining Logistics operations in France. Provision has been 
made to the extent that the conditions for provision recognition under IAS 37 were met at the balance sheet date.
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
There were no restructuring costs in the year ended 30 September 2007.
4. Directors and Employees
Employment costs
In £s million 2008 2007
Wages and salaries 721 343 
Social security costs 176 58 
Pension costs (note 18) 56 54 
Share-based payments (note 21) 18 16 
971 471 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions
requiring disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 70. These disclosures 
form part of the ﬁnancial statements.
Number of persons employed by the Group by segment during the year
At 30 
September Average Average
2008 2008 2007
Tobacco 33,431 27,317 14,221 
Logistics 6,854 4,999 – 
40,285 32,316 14,221 
Number of persons employed by the Group by location during the year
At 30 
September Average Average
2008 2008 2007
European Union 19,358 15,719 7,071
Americas 10,880 7,650 474 
Rest of the World 10,047 8,947 6,676 
40,285 32,316 14,221 
5. Net Finance Costs
In £s million 2008 2007 
Interest on bank deposits (74) (14)
Expected return on retirement beneﬁt assets (224) (203)
Fair value gains on derivative ﬁnancial instruments (104) (101)
Investment income (402) (318)
Interest on bank and other loans 697 251 
Interest on retirement beneﬁt liabilities 179 149 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 62 99 
Finance costs 938 499 
Net ﬁnance costs 536 181  www.imperial-tobacco.com 89
Reconciliation from net ﬁnance costs to adjusted net ﬁnance costs
In £s million 2008 2007 
Reported net ﬁnance costs 536 181 
Expected return on retirement beneﬁt assets 224 203 
Interest on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (179) (149)
Fair value gains on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 104 101 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments (62) (99)
Adjusted net ﬁnance costs 623 237 
6. Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
In £s million 2008 2007 
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 29% (2007: 30%) being the average enacted rate for the year 2 120 
Overseas taxation 359 172 
Total current tax 361 292 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (181) 33 
Total tax charge 180 325 
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported proﬁt before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure
of earnings disclosed in note 8.
In £s million 2008 2007 
Reported taxation 180 325 
Tax on acquisition accounting adjustments 51 – 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 40 (10)
Tax on brand divestment gain (59) – 
Tax on fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 79 10 
Tax on restructuring costs 148 – 
Tax on retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income (13) (15)
Adjusted tax charge 426 310 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax on the Group’s proﬁt before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the average enacted rate for the
year of 29% (2007: 30%) as follows:
In £s million 2008 2007
Proﬁt before tax 621 1,237 
Tax at the average enacted UK corporation tax rate of 29% (2007: 30%) 180 371 
Tax effects of:
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (9) (51)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets – 3 
Items not deductible for tax purposes 15 9 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (6) (7)
Total tax charge 180 325 
Factors that may affect future tax charges
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group is able to control the source and
timing of future remittances. The Group currently has no plans to remit dividends which would result in a material tax cost. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
90 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Taxation continued
Movement on current tax account
In £s million 2008 2007 
At 1 October (217) (259)
Exchange movements (11) (1)
Acquisitions (75) – 
Charged to income statement (361) (292)
(Charged)/credited to equity (87) 5 
Cash paid 401 320 
Other movements 11 10 
At 30 September (339) (217)
Analysis of current tax account
In £s million 2008 2007 
Current tax assets 31 50 
Current tax liabilities (370) (267)
(339) (217)
7. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary equity holders in the year
In £s million 2008 2007
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 42.2p per share (2006: 37.8p) 326 293
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 of 20.9p per share (2007: 18.2p) 161 141
487 434
A ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 of 42.2 pence per share has been proposed. This amounts to £427 million
based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2008. At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved
the ﬁnal dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability.
The dividend per share ﬁgures included in the table above reﬂect the bonus element of the rights issue as described in note 20.
8. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the proﬁt for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company and the weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes 
and shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking 
into account the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were
exercised. No instruments have been excluded from the calculation on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
Pre rights
Post rights issue basis issue basis
In £s million 2008 2007 2007
Earnings: basic and diluted 428 905 905
In millions of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 846.5 775.5 673.8
Potentially dilutive share options 3.0 3.3 2.9
Shares for diluted earnings per share 849.5 778.8 676.7
In pence
Basic earnings per share 50.6 116.7 134.3
Diluted earnings per share 50.4 116.2 133.7
Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 have been calculated on both a pre rights issue and post rights issue basis. The pre
rights issue basis uses the historical weighted average number of shares. For the post rights issue basis the weighted average number
of shares has been calculated to reﬂect the increased number of shares in issue after the rights issue and the bonus element for
periods prior to the closing date of the rights issue. The bonus factor used was 1.1509. www.imperial-tobacco.com 91
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share on a post rights issue basis
2008 2007
In £s million unless otherwise indicated EPS Earnings EPS Earnings
Reported basic 50.6p 428 116.7p 905 
Acquisition accounting adjustments 13.0p 110 –– 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 31.8p 269 4.3p 33 
Brand divestment gain (13.6)p (115) –– 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 22.8p 193 2.8p 22 
Restructuring costs 37.2p 315 –– 
Retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income (3.8)p (32) (5.0)p (39)
Adjustments above attributable to minority interest (1.1)p (9) –– 
Adjusted 136.9p 1,159 118.8p 921 
Adjusted diluted 136.4p 1,159 118.3p 921 
9. Intangible Assets
2008 Supply
In £s million Goodwill Trademarks agreements Software Total
Cost
At 1 October 2007 3,837 1,183 – 38 5,058 
Acquisitions (note 24) 7,039 5,061 1,422 39 13,561 
Additions – 5 – 12 17
Disposals – (19) – (2) (21)
Exchange movements 995 514 97 8 1,614 
At 30 September 2008 11,871 6,744 1,519 95 20,229 
Amortisation
At 1 October 2007 – 85 – 23 108 
Amortisation charge for the year – 183 105 8 296
Impairment 21 – – – 21 
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Exchange movements – 9 – 4 13
At 30 September 2008 21 277 105 34 437
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 11,850 6,467 1,414 61 19,792 
2007 Supply
In £s million Goodwill Trademarks agreements Software Total
Cost
At 1 October 2006 3,446 508 – 34 3,988 
Acquisitions (note 24) 305 670 – – 975 
Additions – 5 – 5 10 
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Exchange movements 86 – – – 86 
At 30 September 2007 3,837 1,183 – 38 5,058 
Amortisation
At 1 October 2006 – 58 – 20 78 
Amortisation charge for the year – 23 – 4 27 
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Exchange movements – 4 – – 4 
At 30 September 2007 – 85 – 23 108
Net book value
At 30 September 2007 3,837 1,098 – 15 4,950  Notes to the Financial Statements continued
92 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Intangible Assets continued
Intangible amortisation is included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Supply agreements includes Logistics customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba and Morocco, all acquired
under the purchase of Altadis.
Amortisation and impairment in respect of acquired intangible assets are treated as a reconciling item between reported proﬁt 
from operations and adjusted proﬁt from operations. The adjustment comprises the amortisation charge for trademarks and supply
agreements and the impairment of goodwill.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment review
Goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs), which have been
identiﬁed according to the country of operation for distribution units, with manufacturing identiﬁed as a single separate unit. 
A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives is shown as follows:
2008 2007
Intangible Intangible
assets with assets with
In £s million Goodwill indeﬁnite lives Goodwill indeﬁnite lives
European Union 5,089 115 1,838 105 
Americas 1,934 88 296 – 
Rest of the World 2,475 523 1,348 273 
Manufacturing 712 – 355 – 
Tobacco 10,210 726 3,837 378 
Logistics 1,640 – – – 
11,850 726 3,837 378 
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 (mainly EU and Rest of the World), Commonwealth Brands 
in 2007 (Americas) and Altadis in 2008 (all regions).
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any
indications that impairment may have arisen. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash ﬂow projections derived from three-year ﬁnancial budgets which are based on management’s experience
and expectations and are approved by the Board annually. The compound annual growth rates implicit in these plans, which are used
for the initial three years in the value-in-use calculations, are shown below. Cash ﬂows beyond the three year period are extrapolated
using the estimated long-term growth rate of 3% per annum. An average pre-tax discount rate of 9.7% is used, in line with the
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. Any reasonable movement in the assumptions of the impairment test would not result 
in an impairment.
Since their acquisition in January 2008, the intangible assets of Altadis have been subject to a provisional fair value exercise. 
This included an assessment of recoverability. No indications of impairment were identiﬁed.
A goodwill impairment of £21 million has been recognised in respect of Sinclair Collis Limited, reﬂecting the decline in UK vending
sales as a result of the introduction of restrictions on smoking in licensed premises and anticipated access restrictions. No impairment
charges were recognised in 2007.
Initial growth Long term
rate
1
growth rate
2
European Union 5% 3%
Americas 15% 3%
Rest of the World 12% 3%
Logistics n/a n/a
1
Weighted average compound annual growth rate used for ﬁrst three years in value-in-use calculations.
2
Weighted average compound annual growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the initial three years. www.imperial-tobacco.com 93
10. Property, Plant and Equipment
2008 Plant and Fixtures and
In £s million Property equipment motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2007 168 853 168 1,189 
Acquisitions (note 24) 802 118 93 1,013
Additions 21 124 69 214
Disposals (30) (14) (6) (50)
Reclassiﬁcations 12 27 (39) – 
Exchange movements 71 90 20 181 
At 30 September 2008 1,044 1,198 305 2,547
Depreciation
At 1 October 2007 17 438 94 549
Charge for the year 5 73 45 123 
Impairment 2 15 – 17 
Disposals (1) (10) (6) (17)
Reclassiﬁcations (1) – 1 – 
Exchange movements 2 42 9 53
At 30 September 2008 24 558 143 725 
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 1,020 640 162 1,822 
The net book value above includes land and buildings of £29 million (2007: £nil) held under a ﬁnance lease.
2007 Plant and Fixtures and
In £s million Property equipment motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2006 157 780 159 1,096 
Acquisitions (note 24) 1 9 – 10 
Additions 6 98 24 128 
Disposals (2) (50) (19) (71)
Exchange movements 6 16 4 26 
At 30 September 2007 168 853 168 1,189 
Depreciation
At 1 October 2006 12 415 89 516 
Charge for the year 6 61 21 88 
Disposals (1) (48) (19) (68)
Exchange movements – 10 3 13 
At 30 September 2007 17 438 94 549 
Net book value
At 30 September 2007 151 415 74 640 
Land and buildings at net book value
In £s million 2008 2007
Freehold 980 140 
Long leasehold 40 11 
1,020 151 
No assets (2007: net book value of £nil) are pledged as security for liabilities. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
94 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Investments in associates
In £s million 2008 2007
At 1 October 4 5 
Acquisitions 13 – 
Impairment – (1)
Exchange movements (1) – 
At 30 September 16 4 
Investments in joint ventures
The principal joint ventures are Corporación Habanos, S.A., Cuba and Altabana S.L., Spain. Summarised ﬁnancial information for 
the Group’s share of joint ventures is shown below:
2008 2007
Corporación
In £s million Habanos Altabana Others Total Total
Revenue 11 45 3 59 – 
Proﬁt after taxation 8 6 1 15 – 
Non-current assets 183 7 3 193 – 
Current assets 31 46 5 82 – 
Total assets 214 53 8 275 – 
Current liabilities (31) (18) (1) (50) – 
Non-current liabilities (25) (2) – (27) – 
Total liabilities (56) (20) (1) (77) – 
Net assets 158 33 7 198 – 
12. Inventories
In £s million 2008 2007
Raw materials 749 290 
Work in progress 64 13 
Finished inventories 1,801 505 
Other inventories 244 190 
2,858 998 
Other inventories comprise mainly duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory,
because of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. Leaf tobacco held within raw
materials inventories at the balance sheet date will ordinarily be utilised within two years.
13. Trade and Other Receivables
2008 2007
In £s million Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade receivables 2,667 – 1,156 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (17) – (7) – 
Net trade receivables 2,650 – 1,149 – 
Other receivables 234 95 22 3 
Prepayments and accrued income 67 3 83 4 
2,951 98 1,254 7  www.imperial-tobacco.com 95
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows:
2008 2007
In £s million Current Non-current Current Non-current
Within credit terms 2,309 – 1,120 – 
Past due by less than 3 months 291 – 28 – 
Past due by more than 3 months 50 – 1 – 
Amounts that are impaired 17 – 7 – 
2,667 – 1,156 – 
14. Cash and Cash Equivalents
In £s million 2008 2007
Cash at bank and in hand 457 364
Short term deposits and other liquid assets 185 16 
642 380 
£157 million (2007: £nil) of total cash and cash equivalents are held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer the 
funds abroad. Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a reasonable
period of time.
15. Trade and Other Payables
2008 2007
In £s million Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade payables 1,096 – 140 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 4,775 – 1,274 – 
Deferred consideration 45 – 8 – 
Other payables 99 – 53 1 
Accruals and deferred income 168 14 118 4 
6,183 14 1,593 5 
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments
(i) Management of ﬁnancial risk
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, Group Treasury, that is responsible for the management of the ﬁnancial risks 
of the Group, together with its ﬁnancing and liquidity requirements. It does not operate as a proﬁt centre, nor does it enter into
speculative transactions. The Group Treasury Committee (“GTC”) oversees the operation of Group Treasury in accordance with terms
of reference set out by the Board. The Board retains responsibility for all major treasury decisions. The GTC currently comprises the
Finance Director, Corporate Development Director, Group Financial Controller, Cigar BU Finance Director, Group Treasurer and the
two Deputy Group Treasurers. The GTC agrees a framework which sets out the current expectations and boundaries to assist in the
effective oversight of Group Treasury activities, covering all key areas within Group Treasury. The Group Treasurer reports on a regular
basis to the Board, including the provision of a monthly treasury report, which is also provided to the GTC .
Accounting for derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value
being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisﬁes the hedge accounting rules under IFRS. The Group hedges
underlying exposures in an efﬁcient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead
to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, the Group has decided not to apply
cash ﬂow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments as permitted under IAS 39. However, the Group does
apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign
operations. See section (v) below for details. The information contained in sections (ii) and (iii) below shows the underlying borrowing
position before the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
96 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign
currencies, and the foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and derivatives.
The Group’s policy is to manage its balance sheet translation risk by funding acquisitions and the underlying business assets with
borrowings (post cross currency swaps) in the currency of the underlying net assets. This results in foreign currency proﬁt from
operations being reduced by foreign currency interest costs thereby minimising the translation exposure on foreign currency proﬁts
after tax.
In 2008, 77% of revenue (2007: 61%) and 74% of adjusted proﬁt from operations (2007: 62%) was in markets outside the UK.
Certain sales in these markets are invoiced in currencies other than the functional currency of the selling company, in particular
Taiwanese dollars. Where necessary the Group uses foreign currency derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as forward foreign
exchange contracts, to reduce exposure to the risk that these sales will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. 
At 30 September 2008, there were £nil million (2007: £20 million) notional outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts, 
the fair value of which was £nil million (2007: £0.4 million).
The material foreign currency denominated costs include the purchase of tobacco leaf, which is sourced from various countries but
purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging materials which are sourced from various countries and purchased in a number 
of currencies. The Group currently does not consider the foreign exchange risk here to be material enough to hedge after taking into
account other US dollar inﬂows across the Group.
The Group issues debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution and uses derivative ﬁnancial
instruments, such as cross currency swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency. At 30 September 2008, approximately
13% (2007: 12%) of adjusted net debt was denominated in sterling, 62% in euro (2007: 70%) and 25% in US dollars (2007: 18%).
This excludes the impact of transactional cross currency swaps, maturing between 2011 and 2015, that will convert forecast euro
dividends from subsidiaries into sterling.
Cashﬂow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose
the Group to cashﬂow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at ﬁxed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Group
Treasury monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which includes cash and cash equivalents, the fair value of
the principal amounts due to be exchanged at maturity under cross currency swaps, excluding ﬁnance lease liabilities, the fair value 
of interest rate derivatives and interest accruals. The Group’s ﬁnancial results are currently principally exposed to gains or losses
arising from ﬂuctuations in sterling, euro and US dollar interest rates.
In order to manage its interest rate risk on the borrowings, the Group separates the borrowing activities from its interest rate risk
management decisions by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution and uses
derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency
and into ﬂoating interest rates (post cross currency swaps) shortly after issue. The Group then transacts interest rate swaps at other
times for different notional amounts and different maturities to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk. At 30 September
2008, 38% (2007: 39%) of adjusted net debt was at a floating rate of interest, 60% (2007: 57%) at a fixed rate of interest and 
2% (2007: 4%) ﬁxed within a set range. 
The Group manages its interest rate exposure on a regular basis and reports the position monthly to the Board and GTC. The Group
calculates the impact on proﬁt and loss of a deﬁned interest rate shift for each of the major currencies of borrowings. The Group also
reports monthly the forecast percentage of debt ﬁxed over the next ten years to the Board and GTC.
Sensitivity analysis
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that illustrates the estimated impact on the income statement and items recognised directly 
in equity of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates in relation to all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point +/- movement in interest rates and a 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling
represents reasonably possible changes. The impact on income and equity of these changes is shown in the table below. The
sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of ﬁxed to ﬂoating interest rates of the debt
and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of ﬁnancial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the net
investment hedge designations in place at 30 September 2008. The sensitivity analysis does not reﬂect any change to sales or costs
that may result from changing interest or exchange rates. All ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of subsidiary
companies are not included in the analysis. The analysis excludes instruments that expose the Group to interest rate and foreign
exchange risk where such risk is fully hedged with another ﬁnancial instrument. www.imperial-tobacco.com 97
30 September 2008 30 September 2007
Income Equity Income Equity
gain/ gain/ gain/ gain/
In £s million (loss) (loss) (loss) (loss)
100 basis point increase / decrease in GBP interest rates (8)/8 – (3)/3 – 
100 basis point increase / decrease in euro interest rates (68)/68 – (12)/12 – 
100 basis point increase / decrease in US dollar interest rates (11)/11 – (4)/4 – 
10% appreciation / depreciation of the euro (155)/155 (1,422)/1,422 (121)/121 (573)/573
10% appreciation / depreciation of the US dollar (202)/202 (50)/50 (4)/4 (44)/44
The impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates reflects the effect on the Group’s floating rate debt at 
30 September 2008.
The impact in the income statement from foreign exchange rate movements primarily relates to derivative ﬁnancial instruments that
commercially hedge net investments, but do not qualify for hedge accounting due to the strict requirements of IAS 39 (although they
are commercially effective). This value is expected to be fully offset by the retranslation of the hedged foreign currency net assets
leaving a net impact on shareholders’ funds of zero. This gain or loss is excluded from our adjusted performance measures. 
The equity impact shown for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments hedging net
investments. This value is expected to be fully offset by the retranslation of the hedged foreign currency net assets leaving a net
impact on shareholders’ funds of zero.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from its trade receivables due from customers, as well as from cash and cash deposits
and the mark-to-market of derivative ﬁnancial instruments transacted with banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group has some signiﬁcant concentrations of customer credit risk. However, the Group has implemented policies to ensure that
sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and obtains guarantees or other means of credit support
to reduce the risk where this is considered to be necessary. Experience of credit loss has historically been low. Analysis of trade and
other receivables is provided in note 13.
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk from ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has placed cash deposits and entered
into derivative ﬁnancial instruments with a diversiﬁed group of ﬁnancial institutions with suitable credit ratings in order to manage 
its credit risk to any one ﬁnancial institution.
The table below summarises the Group’s major financial institution counterparties by credit rating and balances at 
30 September 2008:
30 September 2008 30 September 2007
Maximum Maximum
S&P Credit exposure to S&P Credit exposure to
Counterparty Rating credit risk £m Rating credit risk £m
Bank A AA– 95 AA 43
Bank B AA– 89 AA 69
Bank C AA– 71 AA 18
Bank D AA– 70 – –
Bank E AA+ 60 A16
Bank F AA 52 A23
Bank G A50 A16
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
98 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
On 15 September 2008 Lehmans Brothers Holdings announced it was ﬁling for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The Group had
various ﬁnancial instruments in place with Lehmans Brothers International (Europe) at that date. On 2 October 2008 the Group served
a default notice to terminate these ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁled a claim for settlement of the outstanding mark to market plus
interest for £11.1m. The mark to market of these ﬁnancial instruments has been fully provided against at 30 September 2008.
Liquidity risk
The Group would be exposed to liquidity risk from having insufﬁcient funds to meet the ﬁnancing needs of the Group.
It is the policy of the Group to actively maintain a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities that are designed 
to ensure that the Group has sufﬁcient available funds for the forecast requirements of the Group over the short to medium term. 
At 30 September 2008 the Group had £2,053 million (2007: £777 million) of undrawn committed facilities, maturing between 
2009 and 2012. 
As well as forecasting and monitoring the Group’s core liquidity needs, the Group Treasury function is in regular dialogue with
subsidiary companies to ensure their liquidity needs are met. Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital and
retained earnings, loans from central ﬁnance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in
appropriate currencies. Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by subsidiary companies are
remitted to Group Treasury where practical and possible and are used to pay down debt wherever possible. 
The table below analyses the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities and derivatives into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining
period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual
undiscounted cash ﬂows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date, including interest to be
paid. The carrying value of derivative ﬁnancial liabilities excludes collateral transferred in respect of certain derivatives with negative 
fair values for which there is no reasonable basis upon which to allocate future cash ﬂows to maturity groupings.
At 30 September 2008 Carrying Contractual Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than 
In £s million amount cash ﬂows 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Bank loans 7,421 7,500 4,454 2,559 487 –
Capital market issuance 4,815 6,742 1,070 227 1,007 4,438
Trade payables 1,096 1,096 1,096 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 28 32 3 3 26 –
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Net settled derivatives 110 205 24 21 89 71
Gross settled derivatives 318 
– receipts 3,667 2,203 60 611 793
– payments 3,946 2,319 75 614 938
At 30 September 2007 Carrying Contractual Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than 
In £s million amount cash ﬂows 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Bank loans 2,912 2,920 2,920 – – – 
Capital market issuance 2,208 2,948 129 403 644 1,772 
Trade payables 140 140 140 – – – 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Net settled derivatives 53 67 10 10 31 16 
Gross settled derivatives 166 
– receipts 1,810 81 375 524 830 
– payments 1,964 89 459 562 854 
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk or ﬁnancial instrument price risk. The Group is exposed to commodity price
risk in that there may be ﬂuctuations in the price of tobacco leaf. As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf
tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations inﬂuence tobacco plantings in those countries where tobacco is grown.
Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that may affect crop quality or supply and so lead to changes 
in price. The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf from a number of different countries, sourcing from
various counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held. www.imperial-tobacco.com 99
Capital risk management
The Group manages the capital structure in an efﬁcient manner in order to minimise the cost of capital whilst ensuring that we have
access to on-going sources of ﬁnance such as the debt capital markets.
The Group therefore manages the capital structure to maintain an investment grade credit rating and has and will continue to take the
appropriate measures to maintain this. For example, where new equity is needed, the Group will issue the minimum required in order
to maintain this investment grade credit rating. This is determined in connection with detailed discussions with credit rating agencies.
Fair value estimation
The fair values of derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based on market data (such as yield curves and exchange
rates) to calculate the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities maturing within one year are approximate to their carrying value. For liabilities with 
a maturity of more than one year the fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
(ii) Borrowings
The Group’s borrowings at the balance sheet date are as follows:
In £s million 2008 2007
Current borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,849 1,067 
Capital market issuance:
€600m 4.25% notes due 2008 491 – 
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 338 – 
Total current borrowings 2,678 1,067 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans 5,572 1,845 
Capital market issuance:
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 – 304 
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 357 357 
€500m 5.125% notes due 2013 410 – 
€1,200m 4.375% notes due 2013 981 867 
€750m 7.25% notes due 2014 592 – 
€500m 4.0% notes due 2015 366 – 
£450m 5.5% notes due 2016 470 470 
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 210 210 
£600m 8.125% notes due 2024 600 – 
Total non-current borrowings 9,558 4,053
Total borrowings 12,236 5,120
Current borrowings and non-current borrowings at 30 September 2008 include interest payable of £27 million (2007: £4 million) 
and £131 million (2007: £84 million) respectively.
Borrowings drawn under revolving credit facilities have been classiﬁed as non-current borrowings, in accordance with the maturity
date of those facilities.
The Group has not defaulted on any loans during the year (2007: no defaults). Notes to the Financial Statements continued
100 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
(iii) Currency analysis and effective interest rates of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The currency denomination, the maturities and the effective interest rates of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (excluding
derivatives) at 30 September 2008 are as follows:
Maturity
Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than Weighted
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total average
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Assets/(liabilities) (before the impact of 
cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash equivalents
Sterling 6 4.2 6 4.2
Euro 307 2.2 307 2.2
US dollars 69 2.2 69 2.2
Other 260 4.2 260 4.2
Total cash and cash equivalents 642 642
Weighted average receivable interest rate 3.0 3.0
Trade receivables
Sterling 547 – 547 –
Euro 1,705 – 1,705 –
US dollars 109 – 109 –
Other 296 – 296 –
Total trade receivables 2,657 – 2,657 –
Trade payables
Sterling (60) – (60) –
Euro (863) – (863) –
US dollars (53) – (53) –
Other (120) – (120) –
Total trade payables (1,096) – (1,096) –
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (3) 5.5 (648) 6.1 (427) 6.8 (1,281) 6.9 (2,359) 6.7
Euro (2,246) 5.2 (2,291) 5.7 (1,373) 5.5 (2,348) 4.5 (8,258) 5.2
US dollars (338) 7.1 (1,074) 4.2 (28) 4.1 –– (1,440) 4.9
Other (91) 4.1 (44) 4.0 (44) 4.0 –– (179) 4.1
Total borrowings (2,678) (4,057) (1,872) (3,629) (12,236)
Borrowings – by class of instrument
Bank borrowings (1,849) 5.4 (4,057) 5.3 (1,515) 5.5 (7,421) 5.4
Capital market issuance (829) 5.4 (357) 6.8 (3,629) 5.5 (4,815) 5.6
Total borrowings (2,678) (4,057) (1,872) (3,629) (12,236)
Weighted average payable interest rate 5.4 5.3 5.7 5.5 5.4
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are ﬂoating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in the case of
sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuances in place at 30 September 2008
bear interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a ﬁxed rate throughout their life.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in section 
(iv) below. www.imperial-tobacco.com 101
The currency denomination, the maturities and the effective interest rates of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (excluding
derivatives) at 30 September 2007 were as follows:
Maturity
Less than Between 1 Between 2 More than Weighted
1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total average
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Assets/(liabilities) (before the impact of 
cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash equivalents
Sterling 98 5.3 98 5.3
Euro 142 3.5 142 3.5
US dollars 40 4.3 40 4.3
Other 100 4.4 100 4.4
Total cash and cash equivalents 380 380
Weighted average receivable interest rate 4.3 4.3
Trade receivables
Sterling 546 – 546 –
Euro 375 – 375 –
US dollars 54 – 54 –
Other 181 – 181 –
Total trade receivables 1,156 – 1,156 –
Trade payables
Sterling (45) – (45) –
Euro (40) – (40) –
US dollars (19) – (19) –
Other (36) – (36) –
Total trade payables (140) – (140) –
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (25) 4.3 (656) 6.8 (680) 5.7 (1,361) 6.2
Euro (91) 4.6 (1,546) 4.8 (867) 4.3 (2,504) 4.6
US dollars (950) 5.6 (304) 7.0 (1,254) 5.9
Other (1) 5.5 (1) 5.5
Total borrowings (1,067) (304) (2,202) (1,547) (5,120)
Borrowings – by class of instrument
Bank borrowings (1,067) 5.5 (1,845) 5.1 (2,912) 5.3
Capital market issuance (304) 7.0 (357) 6.8 (1,547) 4.9 (2,208) 5.5
Total borrowings (1,067) (304) (2,202) (1,547) (5,120)
Weighted average payable interest rate 5.5 7.0 5.4 4.9 5.4
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are ﬂoating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in the case of
sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuances in place at 30 September 2007
bear interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a ﬁxed rate throughout their life.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in section (iv) below. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
102 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
(iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value
being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisﬁes the hedge accounting rules under IFRS. The Group hedges
underlying exposures in an efﬁcient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead
to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, the Group has decided not to apply
cash ﬂow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments as permitted under IAS 39. However, the Group does
apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign
operations. See section (v) below for details. 
The Group separates the borrowing activities from its interest rate risk management decisions by issuing debt in the market or
markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution and using derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as cross currency swaps
and interest rate swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency and into ﬂoating interest rate immediately after issue.
The following table sets out the derivative ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group at 30 September 2008, and demonstrates the
Group’s use of those derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage the Group’s foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate
exposures. The table presents the nominal value of such instruments used to calculate the contractual payments under such
contracts, analysed by maturity date, together with the related weighted average interest rate where relevant. Some of the interest
rate swaps have embedded options and assumptions have been made based on market information and third party advice at 
30 September 2008 to determine whether such options are likely to be exercised in order to determine the probable maturity date,
however the actual maturity date could be earlier or later depending upon future market conditions.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution.
Matures in ﬁnancial year ending in
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2008 £m
Capital market issuance
€600m 4.25% notes due 2008 474 474
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 336 336
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 350 350
€500m 5.125% notes due 2013 395 395
€1,200m 4.375% notes due 2013 947 947
€750m 7.25% notes due 2014 592 592
€500m 4.0% notes due 2015 395 395
£450m 5.5% notes due 2016 450 450
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 200 200
£600m 8.125% notes due 2024 600 600
Interest accruals, discounts and fair value adjustments 19 7 50 76
Total capital market issuance 829 357 3,629 4,815
Bank loans and overdrafts, borrowed at LIBOR (or equivalent) 
plus a margin at the time of borrowing 1,838 4,040 1,514 7,392
Interest accruals 11 17 1 29
Total bank borrowings 1,849 4,057 1,515 7,421
Total borrowings 2,678 4,057 1,872 3,629 12,236 www.imperial-tobacco.com 103
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and interest basis.
Fair value at
30 September
Financial year ending in 2008
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling, pay euro:
Notional amount 350
1
650
1
1,000 213 
Sterling interest rate to receive (%) 6.7 5.6 6.0
Interest margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 0.8 1.0
Receive US dollar, pay sterling:
Notional amount 336
1
336 32 
US dollar interest rate to receive (%) 7.1 7.1
Sterling interest margin over LIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 1.3
Receive euro, pay US dollar:
Notional amount 1,737 1,737 70
US dollar interest margin over LIBOR to pay (%) – –
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay variable, receive ﬁxed:
Notional amount 1,855 1,855 47 
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 6.8 6.8
Weighted average margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 1.3
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay variable, receive ﬁxed:
Notional amount 600 600 4
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 8.1 8.1
Weighted average margin over LIBOR to pay (%) 3.1 3.1
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to create the desired interest rate risk.
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 110 365
2
475 25
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 6.1 4.9 5.1 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
104 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Fair value at
30 September
Financial year ending in 2008
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 347
3
1,176
4
2,056
5
43 1,918
6
5,540 84 15
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 4.4 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.0 
Basis swaps – Receive variable monthly, pay 
variable quarterly
Notional amount 1,697 1,697 10 
US dollar interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 336 897
7
729
8
1,962 7 26
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 5.1 3.9 4.6 4.3 
Collars purchased:
Notional amount 135
9
112
10
247 2
Caps purchased:
Notional amount 28
11
56
12
84 –
Basis swaps – Receive variable monthly, pay 
variable quarterly
Notional amount 561 561 2
Basis swaps – Receive euro variable monthly, pay 
US Dollar variable
Notional amount 22 22 4 www.imperial-tobacco.com 105
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage net investment hedging risk.
Fair value at
30 September
Financial year ending in 2008
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling ﬁxed, pay euro ﬁxed: 
Notional amount 753 983 1,012 1,610 4,358 76
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 4.6 4.6 4.7 4.7 4.7 
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 5.7 5.7 5.6 5.6 5.6 
Non-deliverable forward
Receive euro, pay Moroccan dirham (MAD): 
Notional amount 116 116 2 
Total fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments at 30 September 2008 173 428 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support 
annex documents under ISDA agreements in respect of certain derivatives with negative fair values – (188)
Total carrying value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments at 30 September 2008 173 240
Therefore, the overall effect of the interest rate swaps transacted at 30 September 2008 that were live at this date is to convert 
£6,870 million of borrowings into a ﬁxed rate with £331 million of borrowings ﬁxed within a set range, see below.
1 Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2 The following trades are included within this balance:
£15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2015.
£50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel 
every ﬁve years throughout the life of the trade. This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2016.
3 The following trade is included within this balance: €240 million interest rate swap maturing in 2013 where the counterparty has the option to cancel 
every three months throughout the life of the trade. This trade is expected to be cancelled in November 2008.
4 The following trades are included within this balance: €480 million interest rate swaps maturing in 2013 where the counterparty has the option to cancel 
every three months throughout the life of the trade and is expected to cancel in February 2010. €480 million interest rate swaps maturing in 2013 where 
the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade and is expected to cancel in August 2010. 
5 The following trades are included within this balance:
€75 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
€375 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2009.
6 The following trades are included within this balance:
€500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
€900 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
7 The following trades are included within this balance:
$400 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
8 The following trades are included within this balance:
$500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
9 $240 million interest rate collar maturing in 2009 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.55% to 6.00%.
10 $200 million interest rate collar maturing in 2011 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.78% to 6.00%.
11 $50 million interest rate caps maturing in 2009 where the interest rate is capped at 6.00%.
12 $100 million interest rate caps maturing in 2010 where the interest rate is capped at 6.00%. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
106 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
The following table sets out the derivative ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group at 30 September 2007.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution.
Matures in ﬁnancial year ending in
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2007 £m
Capital market issuance
US$600m 7.125% notes due 2009 294 294
£350m 6.875% notes due 2012 350 350
€1,200m 4.375% notes due 2013 837 837
£450m 5.5% notes due 2016 450 450
£200m 6.25% notes due 2018 200 200
Interest accruals and discounts 10 7 60 77
Total capital market issuance 304 357 1,547 2,208
Bank loans and overdrafts, borrowed at LIBOR 
(or equivalent) plus a margin at the time of borrowing 1,063 1,841 2,904
Interest accruals 4 4 8
Total bank borrowings 1,067 1,845 2,912
Total borrowings 1,067 304 1,845 357 1,547 5,120
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and interest basis.
Fair value at 
30 September
Financial year ending in 2007
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling, pay euro:
Notional amount 350
1
650
1
1,000 92
Sterling interest rate to receive (%) 6.7 5.6 6.0
Interest margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 0.8 1.0
Receive US dollar, pay sterling:
Notional amount 294
1 
294 75
US dollar interest rate to receive (%) 7.1 7.1
Sterling interest margin over LIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 1.3
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay variable, receive ﬁxed:
Notional amount 837 837 34
Weighted average interest rate to receive (%) 4.3 4.3
Weighted average margin over EURIBOR to pay (%) 0.6 0.6 www.imperial-tobacco.com 107
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are then transacted to create the desired interest rate risk.
Fair value at 
30 September
Financial year ending in 2007
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Asset Liability
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 120 15
2
110 50
3
29513
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 6.4 4.2 6.1 4.3 5.8
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 63 192 98 1,545
4
1,552
5
3,450 70 7
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 3.1 5.1 3.7 3.9 4.2 4.1
US dollar interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps – pay ﬁxed, receive variable:
Notional amount 275 196
6
245
7
716 7
Weighted average interest rate to pay (%) 5.1 5.3 5.6 5.4
Collars purchased:
Notional amount 118
8
98
9
216 1
Total fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments at 30 September 2007 71 219
Therefore, the overall effect of the interest rate swaps transacted at 30 September 2007 that were live at this date is to convert 
£2,728 million of borrowings into a ﬁxed rate with £216 million of borrowings ﬁxed within a set range, see below.
At 30 September 2007 £96 million has been transferred as collateral under the terms and conditions of credit support annex
documents under ISDA agreements in respect of certain derivatives with negative fair values.
1 Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2 The following trade is included within this balance:
£15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in March 2010.
3 The following trade is included within this balance:
£50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every ﬁve years throughout the life of the trade. 
This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2016.
4 The following trades are included within this balance:
€75 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
€375 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2009.
5 The following trades are included within this balance:
€500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
€900 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
6 The following trades are included within this balance:
$400 million forward start three-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2009.
7 The following trades are included within this balance:
$500 million forward start ﬁve-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
8 $240 million interest rate collar maturing in 2009 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.55% to 6.00%.
9 $200 million interest rate collar maturing in 2011 where the interest rate is ﬁxed within the range 3.78% to 6.00%. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
108 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
(v) Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 30 September 2008 external loans with a fair value of €6,429 million, $800 million and MAD2,500 million (2007: €3,081 million,
$800 million and MAD nil), cross currency swaps of €5,502 million (2007: €nil) and non-deliverable forwards of MAD1,675 million
(2007: MAD nil) have been designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign operations and are being used to
hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings
are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the Group’s foreign operations.
Permanent intragroup loans with a fair value of €4,284 million (2007: €4,284 million) have been treated as a reduction in investments
in the Group’s foreign operations.
In addition, cross currency swaps of €1,516 million (2007: €1,516 million) and $3,235 million (2007: $nil) are considered to provide
commercial hedges against investments in the Group’s foreign operations. However, since the derivatives do not meet the strict
hedging requirements of IAS 39 the fair value gains and losses on these derivatives are recognised in the income statement, but are
excluded from our adjusted performance measures.
(vi) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all ﬁnancial liabilities that are carried in the ﬁnancial
statements at amounts other than fair values.
All ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are carried at amortised cost, other than derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are carried at fair value.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are approximate to their fair value and so
are excluded from the analysis below. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are excluded as they are carried at fair value. No assets are held
for sale.
2008 2007
Carrying Carrying 
In £s million amount Fair value amount Fair value
Current borrowings
Sterling 33 25 25
Euro 2,246 2,247 91 91
US dollars 338 342 950 950
Other 91 91 11
Total current borrowings 2,678 2,683 1,067 1,067
Non-current borrowings
Sterling 2,145 2,065 1,336 1,291
Euro 6,223 6,020 2,413 2,363
US dollars 1,102 1,102 304 314
Other 88 88 – –
Total non-current borrowings 9,558 9,275 4,053 3,968
Within the table above it is only the capital market issues that have a fair value different to the carrying value and this has been
calculated by comparing the current trading levels of the capital market issues to par. www.imperial-tobacco.com 109
17. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority. The following amounts, determined after
appropriate offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
In £s million 2008 2007
Deferred tax assets 392 52 
Deferred tax liabilities (2,294) (208)
(1,902) (156)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months
In £s million 2008 2007
Deferred tax assets 127 19 
Deferred tax liabilities (8) (17)
119 2 
Deferred tax assets
Fixed and Other
intangible Retirement Fair value temporary
In £s million assets beneﬁts losses differences Total
At 1 October 2007 (23) 43 – 32 52
Credited/(charged) to income statement (4) (26) – 240 210 
Credited to equity – 6 – – 6 
Acquisitions (41) 46 – 98 103
Exchange movements (6) – – 24 18
Transfers 7 – – (4) 3
At 30 September 2008 (67) 69 – 390 392
Fixed and Other
intangible Retirement Fair value temporary
In £s million assets beneﬁts losses differences Total
At 1 October 2006 (23) 57 – 37 71 
Charged to income statement (8) – – (1) (9)
Charged to equity – (10) – – (10)
Transfers 8 (4) – (4) – 
At 30 September 2007 (23) 43 – 32 52 
Deferred tax liabilities
Fixed and Other
intangible Retirement Fair value temporary
In £s million assets beneﬁts gains differences Total
At 1 October 2007 (51) (169) 7 5 (208)
Credited/(charged) to income statement (36) (4) (1) 12 (29)
Credited/(charged) to equity – 51 – (6) 45 
Acquisitions (2,067) – – 112 (1,955)
Exchange movements (150) – – 6 (144)
Transfers 25 (1) – (27) (3)
At 30 September 2008 (2,279) (123) 6 102 (2,294) Notes to the Financial Statements continued
110 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities continued
Fixed and Other
intangible Retirement Fair value temporary
In £s million assets beneﬁts gains differences Total
At 1 October 2006 (27) (113) 22 (17) (135)
Credited/(charged) to income statement (16) (11) (15) 18 (24)
Charged to equity – (49) – – (49)
Transfers (8) 4 – 4 – 
At 30 September 2007 (51) (169) 7 5 (208)
Deferred tax assets of £12 million are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax
beneﬁt through future taxable proﬁts is probable. Deferred tax assets of £14 million as at 30 September 2008 (2007: £9 million) have
not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions. Of these
losses £9 million (2007: £5 million) will expire within ﬁve years.
18. Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁt schemes for its employees, including both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned
contribution schemes. The Group’s two principal schemes are ﬁnal salary deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and are operated by Imperial
Tobacco Limited in the UK and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany. The UK scheme’s assets are held in trustee
administered funds while the German scheme is unfunded.
The results of the most recent available actuarial valuations for the principal Group schemes (outside Germany) have been updated to
30 September 2008 by Watson Wyatt Limited, actuaries and consultants, in order to determine the amounts to be included in the
balance sheet and income statement. Actuarial valuations of the pension liabilities of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension
schemes were undertaken by Russ, Dr Zimmerman und Partner at 30 September 2008.
Amounts recognised in the income statement
In £s million 2008 2007
Current service cost 39 38 
Past service cost 1 2 
Losses from special termination beneﬁts 1 16 
Curtailment gains – (6)
Deﬁned beneﬁt costs in proﬁt from operations 41 50 
Interest on retirement beneﬁt liabilities 179 149 
Expected return on retirement beneﬁt assets (224) (203)
Retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income in ﬁnance costs (note 5) (45) (54)
Total deﬁned beneﬁt scheme income (4) (4)
Deﬁned contribution costs in proﬁt from operations 15 4 
Total retirement beneﬁt scheme costs in the income statement 11 – 
Pensions costs charged to proﬁt from operations
In £s million 2008 2007
Deﬁned beneﬁt costs in proﬁt from operations 41 50 
Deﬁned contribution costs in proﬁt from operations 15 4 
Total pension costs in proﬁt from operations 56 54 
Which is split as follows in the income statement:
Cost of sales 29 29 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 14 13 
Administrative and other expenses 13 12 
Total pension costs in proﬁt from operations 56 54  www.imperial-tobacco.com 111
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes – amounts recognised in the balance sheet
In £s million 2008 2007
Present value of funded obligations (2,332) (2,648)
Fair value of scheme assets 2,769 3,238 
437 590 
Present value of unfunded obligations (542) (385)
(105) 205 
Recognised in the balance sheet as:
In £s million 2008 2007
Retirement beneﬁt assets 441 602 
Retirement beneﬁt liabilities (546) (397)
(105) 205 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes obligations – changes in present value
In £s million 2008 2007
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at 1 October 3,033 3,072 
Current service cost 39 38 
Past service cost 1 2 
Interest cost 179 149 
Actuarial gains (477) (81)
Contributions by employees 2 2 
Exchange movements 83 18 
Beneﬁts paid (185) (177)
Special termination beneﬁts 1 16 
Curtailment gains – (6)
Acquisitions 198 – 
At 30 September 2,874 3,033 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes assets – changes in fair value
In £s million 2008 2007
At 1 October 3,238 3,035 
Expected return 224 203 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (633) 121 
Contributions by employees 2 2 
Contributions by employer 42 46 
Exchange movements 31 8 
Beneﬁts paid (185) (177)
Acquisitions 50 – 
At 30 September 2,769 3,238 
The actual return on deﬁned beneﬁt scheme assets was a loss of £409 million (2007: gain £324 million). Notes to the Financial Statements continued
112 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes continued
Amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
In £s million 2008 2007
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in statement of recognised income and expense (156) 202 
Cumulative net actuarial gains recognised in statement of recognised income 
and expense since 1 October 2004 247 403 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes – principal actuarial assumptions used in scheme valuations
2008 UK Germany Other*
Discount rate 7.30% 6.40% 6.44%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.84% n/a 6.38%
Future salary increases 4.90% 3.25% 3.94%
Future pension increases 3.40% 2.15% 2.44%
Inﬂation 3.40% 2.15% 2.40%
2007 UK Germany Other*
Discount rate 5.90% 5.30% 5.28%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.08% n/a 6.06%
Future salary increases 5.15% 3.00% 3.81%
Future pension increases 3.40% 1.90% 2.23%
Inﬂation 3.40% 1.90% 2.20%
* Values shown are the weighted averages of the rates used in the calculations for schemes outside the UK and Germany.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each
territory, and are provided in the table below for the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK and Germany, which in aggregate represent
85% (2007: 92%) of the Group’s total deﬁned beneﬁt scheme obligations at the year end. The average life expectancy, in years, of a
pensioner retiring at age 65 is as follows:
UK Germany
2008 Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65 (years):
Member currently aged 65 19.6 21.4 18.0 22.0
Member currently aged 50 20.6 22.3 20.0 24.0
UK Germany
2007 Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy at age 65 (years):
Member currently aged 65 19.5 21.3 17.9 22.0 
Member currently aged 50 20.6 22.2 19.9 24.0  www.imperial-tobacco.com 113
Major categories of scheme assets and their expected rates of return
UK Other*
Expected PercentageExpected Percentage
2008 return per of total UK return per of total other
In £s million unless otherwise indicated annum Fair value assets annum Fair value assets
Equities 8.2% 1,211 49.0% 7.5% 131 44.0%
Bonds 5.2% 988 40.0% 5.5% 132 44.3%
Property 6.8% 272 11.0% 6.0% 18 6.0%
Other 4.7% –– 4.4% 17 5.7%
2,471 100.0% 298 100.0%
UK Other*
Expected Percentage Expected Percentage 
2007 return per of total UK return per of total other
In £s million unless otherwise indicated annum Fair value assets annum Fair value assets
Equities 8.1% 1,794 60.0% 7.3% 111 44.8%
Bonds 5.1% 837 28.0% 4.8% 111 44.8%
Property 6.8% 329 11.0% 5.5% 18 7.2%
Other 4.9% 30 1.0% 4.8% 8 3.2%
2,990 100.0% 248 100.0%
* Values shown are the weighted averages of the rates used in the calculations for schemes outside the UK. £4 million (2007: £4 million) of assets related to the German unfunded schemes are not
shown separately.
The derivation of the overall expected return on assets reﬂects the actual asset allocation at the measurement date combined with an
expected return for each asset class. The bond return is based on current market yields. The corporate bond yield has been reduced
to allow for an element of default risk. The return on equities and property is based on a number of factors including the income yield
at the measurement date, the long-term growth prospects for the economy in general, the long-term relationship between each asset
class and bond returns, and the movement in market indices since the previous measurement date.
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund has no investments (2007: £nil) in
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s own ﬁnancial instruments. 
History of the plans for current and prior years
In £s million 2008 2007 2006 2005
At 30 September
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 2,874 3,033 3,072 3,007 
Fair value of total plan assets 2,769 3,238 3,035 2,828 
Net total (surplus)/deﬁcit on plans 105 (205) 37 179 
Experience adjustments on total plan liabilities 18 (19) – (9)
Experience adjustments on total plan assets (633) 121 144 333 
In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 in December 2004, the disclosures above are determined
prospectively from the 2005 reporting period.
The main UK Group scheme is the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the ITPF). An actuarial valuation of the ITPF (the triennial
valuation, for funding purposes) was made at 31 March 2007 by Watson Wyatt Limited. The assumptions which had the most
signiﬁcant effect when valuing the ITPF’s liabilities were those relating to the rate of investment return on the ITPF’s existing assets, the
rates of increase in pay and pensions and estimated mortality rates. On the basis that the ITPF is continuing it was assumed that the
future investment returns relative to market values at the valuation date would be 5.20% per annum and that pay and pension
increases would average 4.5% and 3.0% respectively. The assets were brought into account at their market value.
At 31 March 2007 the market value of the invested assets of the ITPF was £2,951 million. The total assets were sufﬁcient to cover
114% of the beneﬁts that had accrued to members for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. The total assets
were sufﬁcient to cover 102% of the total beneﬁts that had accrued to members for past service and future service beneﬁts for
current members. As there was no actuarial deﬁciency, it was agreed with the trustees that, with effect from 31 March 2007, no
employer contributions are required. The ﬁnancial position of the ITPF and the level of contributions to be paid will be reviewed at the
next triennial valuation, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010 and will consider the scheme as at 31 March 2010.  Notes to the Financial Statements continued
114 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Provisions 
In £s million Restructuring Other Total
At 1 October 2007 25 33 58
Acquisitions (note 24) 121 331 452
Additional provisions charged to the income statement 463 26 489 
Amounts used (75) (55) (130)
Unused amount reversed – (1) (1)
Exchange movements 23 60 83
At 30 September 2008 557 394 951
Analysed as:
In £s million 2008 2007
Current 187 26 
Non-current 764 32 
951 58 
Restructuring provisions relate primarily to European Integration projects announced in June 2008 as part of the integration of Imperial
Tobacco and Altadis. They affect sales and marketing, manufacturing and central support functions in a number of markets and will be
implemented progressively over the next three years. In addition to the European Integration projects, restructuring costs include
expenses relating to the closure of our cigar factory in Selma, Alabama, USA, the integration of the recently acquired Lignum 2
operation with Commonwealth Brands, smaller restructuring projects in the Tobacco segment and costs in relation to streamlining
Logistics operations in France. These liabilities are expected to crystallise over a number of years. Provision has been made to the
extent that the conditions for provision recognition under IAS 37 were met at the balance sheet date. 
Restructuring provisions acquired represent plans already in place prior to the acquisition. The restructuring provision at 1 October
2007 relates to factory closures announced in prior years.
Other provisions principally relate to commercial legal claims and disputes. Amounts acquired represent the fair value at acquisition of
current and potential Altadis commercial disputes, litigation and duty claims arising in the normal course of business. These liabilities
are expected to crystallise within the next ﬁve years.
20. Share Capital
In £s million 2008 2007
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2007: 56,040,000,000) 5,604 5,604
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2007: 729,200,921) 107 73
On 20 May 2008 the Group announced a fully underwritten 1 for 2 rights issue to part ﬁnance the Altadis acquisition. The subscription
price of 1,475 pence per share represented a 30.2% discount to the theoretical ex-rights price after adjusting for the interim dividend,
for which new shares issued under the rights issue were not eligible. The rights issue closed on 11 June 2008, by which time valid
acceptances were received in respect of 329,215,281 new shares representing 97.19% of the total number of new shares offered to
shareholders. The remaining 9,526,679 new shares were placed by the underwriters on 12 June 2008. The total number of new
shares issued was 338,741,960. Proceeds of the rights issue, after costs of £93 million, were £4,903 million. www.imperial-tobacco.com 115
21. Share Schemes
The Group recognised total expenses of £18 million (2007: £16 million) related to share-based payment transactions during the year
(note 4).
The Group operates a number of share-based employee beneﬁt schemes.
International Sharesave Plan
Under the Plan the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares (ADSs) in the Company to
non-UK employees who enter into a savings contract. The price at which options may be offered varies depending on local laws, but
for ordinary shares will not be less than 80% of the mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share on the London Stock
Exchange on the day prior to invitation. In respect of ADSs the price will not be less than 80% of the closing price on the OTCQX
market (ticker symbol ITYBY) on the same day. The options may normally be exercised during the six months after expiry of the
savings contract, three years after entering the Plan. The majority of awards under the International Sharesave Plan are equity-settled.
Under the UK Sharesave Plan, which is part of the International Sharesave Plan, the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary
shares in the Company to UK employees who enter into an HM Revenue and Customs approved Save as You Earn (SAYE) savings
contract. The options may normally be exercised during the six months after expiry of the SAYE contract, either three or ﬁve years
after entering the Scheme. The UK Sharesave Plan is equity-settled. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards speciﬁed as a percentage of base salary have been made to Executive Directors
and senior executives. The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of speciﬁed performance criteria,
measured over a three year performance period. All grants are at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee, with no
employee having the right to receive such a grant. Further information relating to the performance criteria and the terms of the plan
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In respect of the November 2004 – November 2007 award, based on earnings per share, 91.8% of the award vested on 
9 November 2007. 
In respect of the November 2005 – November 2008 award, 93.9% of the EPS related element, 77.6% of the TSR related element
linked to the FTSE 100 ranking, and 0% of the TSR element linked to the tobacco and alcohol companies comparator group, vested
on 25 November 2008. Overall 66.3% of the award vested on that date.
Share Matching Scheme
The Share Matching Scheme is designed to encourage employees to acquire and retain Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares
or ADSs. The majority of the awards under the Share Matching Scheme are equity-settled. 
Executive Directors and most of the Group’s management may elect to invest any proportion of their gross bonus (capped at 100%
of base salary for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and 75% for the other Executive Directors) in Imperial Tobacco Group
PLC ordinary shares or ADSs to be held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trusts. Provided that the shares are left in the Trusts for three years,
and the individual remains in employment with the Group, the participant will receive the original shares plus additional shares. The
matching ratio for bonuses is 1:1 to encourage Directors and managers to build a meaningful shareholding in the Group. The
matching of the Executive Directors’ shares is subject to performance criteria as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs)
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Beneﬁt Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee
Beneﬁt Trust (the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, by subscription or
purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of Sharesave options and LTIPs and on
the vesting of the share matching awards. At 30 September 2008, the Trusts held 4.9 million (2007: 4.8 million) ordinary shares with a
nominal value of £490,608, all acquired in the open market at a cost of £93.9 million (2007: £94.2 million). The acquisition of shares
by the Trusts has been ﬁnanced by a gift of £19.2 million and an interest free loan of £180.6 million. None of the ESOT shares has
been allocated to employees or Directors as at 30 September 2008. All ﬁnance costs and administration expenses connected with
the ESOTs are charged to the income statement as they accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held
by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share.
Cash-settled plan liabilities
As noted above certain awards are cash-settled. The total liability recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 September 2008 in
respect of cash-settled awards was £0.6 million (2007: £0.4 million). Notes to the Financial Statements continued
116 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Share Schemes continued
Year from 1 October 2007 to 30 September 2008
Outstanding Outstanding Exercisable Lapsed/
at 1 October at start at start Exercised Cancelled Outstanding Exercisable
Granted 2006 of year of year in year in year at end at end 
Date of grant (adjusted) (adjusted) (adjusted) (adjusted) (adjusted) (adjusted) of year of year
Sharesave options
UK
31 May 2002 943,890 343,053 16,794 16,794 (16,794) – – –
4 June 2003 735,332 222,035 176,473 – (144,204) (2,136) 30,133 30,133
26 May 2004 487,824 421,286 140,142 14,909 (17,571) (3,499) 119,072 –
23 May 2005 454,966 428,196 353,638 – (196,465) (5,693) 151,480 22,880
22 May 2006 370,989 366,757 327,777 – (5,963) (11,676) 310,138 –
29 May 2007 337,134 – 335,658 – (838) (21,168) 313,652 –
13 June 2008 229,294–––– (1,393) 227,901 –
International
4 June – 17 June 2003 736,420 133,865 – – – – – –
26 May – 4 June 2004 187,104 159,236 14,270 14,270 (9,308) (4,962) – –
23 May – 1 June 2005 197,115 183,218 171,028 – (106,003) (31,820) 33,205 33,205
22 May – 1 June 2006 347,332 340,692 323,593 – (3,062) (18,396) 302,135 –
29 May – 8 June 2007 309,381 – 307,820 – (481) (14,725) 292,614 –
13 June – 24 June 2008 381,983–––– (3,769) 378,214 –
US**
4 June 2004 2,915 2,915 – – – – – –
1 June 2005 6,573 6,573 3,265 – – (207) 3,058 3,058
1 June 2006 4,872 4,872 4,872 – – (26) 4,846 –
8 June 2007 46,943 – 46,943 – – (267) 46,676 –
24 June 2008 66,310–––– (1,870) 64,440 –
5,846,377 2,612,698 2,222,273 45,973 (500,689) (121,607) 2,277,564 89,276
Conditional awards
Share Matching 
Scheme
29 January 2004 1,131,805 845,443 – – – – – –
29 January 2005 942,881 817,690 771,966 – (766,013) (5,953) – –
15 February 2006 901,896 880,952 834,037 – (36,562) (32,150) 765,325 –
15 February 2007 737,454 – 727,125 – (13,129) (39,803) 674,193 –
15 February 2008 952,865––– (447) (5,195) 947,223 –
4,666,901 2,544,085 2,333,128 – (816,151) (83,101) 2,386,741 –
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
18 November 2003 553,790 381,590 – – – – – –
9 November 2004 409,560 348,568 338,192 – (310,191) (28,001) – –
2 November 2005 449,403 438,762 435,484 – (26,724) (35,442) 373,318 –
1 November 2006 407,809 – 404,478 – (15,111) (37,496) 351,871 –
31 October 2007 316,649––––– 316,649 –
2,137,211 1,168,920 1,178,154 – (352,026) (100,939) 1,041,838 –
Total options/awards 12,650,489 6,325,703 5,733,555 45,973 (1,668,866) (305,647) 5,706,143 89,276
** Granted as American Depositary Shares, each representing two ordinary shares and denominated in US dollars. www.imperial-tobacco.com 117
Year from 1 October 2006 Year from 1 October 2007 
to 30 September 2007* to 30 September 2008*
Share price at Share price at Exercise price
date of exercise date of exercise of options/
for shares Contractual life for shares Contractual life awards
Share price exercised of options/ exercised of options/ outstanding 
at grant date during the year awards during the year awards at end of year
(adjusted) (adjusted) outstanding (adjusted) outstanding (adjusted)
(in £ unless (in £ unless at end of year (in £ unless at end of year (in £ unless 
Date of grant stated otherwise) stated otherwise) (Months) stated otherwise) (Months) stated otherwise)
Sharesave options
UK
31 May 2002 10.04 18.64 3 21.97 n/a n/a
4 June 2003 9.38 17.93 16 18.26 4 7.14
26 May 2004 10.68 18.71 25 21.84 16 8.76
23 May 2005 12.85 18.60 25 18.25 24 10.19
22 May 2006 14.23 19.28 36 20.57 24 12.12
29 May 2007 18.65 n/a 50 19.87 38 14.96
13 June 2008 20.05 n/a n/a n/a 48 17.50
International
4 June – 17 June 2003 9.04 – 9.38 16.59 n/a 21.15 n/a n/a
26 May – 4 June 2004 10.64 – 10.68 18.73 4 21.47 n/a n/a
23 May – 1 June 2005 12.85 – 13.04 19.17 16 17.79 4 10.20
22 May – 1 June 2006 14.23 – 14.32 19.34 28 19.69 16 12.11
29 May – 8 June 2007 18.65 – 18.73 n/a 40 20.23 28 14.96
13 June – 24 June 2008 19.11 – 20.05 n/a n/a n/a 40 17.50
US**
4 June 2004 $19.92 $40.83 n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 June 2005 $24.10 n/a 16 n/a 4 $19.90
1 June 2006 $27.23 n/a 28 n/a 16 $22.06
8 June 2007 $37.53 n/a 40 n/a 28 $30.39
24 June 2008 $43.87 n/a n/a n/a 40 $35.10
Conditional awards
Share Matching 
Scheme
29 January 2004 19.16 n/a n/a n/a n/a
29 January 2005 17.96 4 20.70 n/a n/a
15 February 2006 17.93 17 22.21 5 n/a
15 February 2007 19.41 29 22.20 17 n/a
15 February 2008 n/a n/a 18.75 29 n/a
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
18 November 2003 17.84 n/a n/a n/a n/a
9 November 2004 18.62 1 20.62 n/a n/a
2 November 2005 16.76 13 21.75 1 n/a 
1 November 2006 18.59 25 21.77 13 n/a
31 October 2007 n/a n/a n/a 25 n/a 
* All measures in these columns are weighted averages.
** Granted as American Depositary Shares, each representing two ordinary shares and denominated in US dollars.
The exercise price of options/awards is ﬁxed over the life of each option/award, except as described below. 
Following the rights issue described in note 20, adjustments were made to the share plans. In respect of the Share Matching
Scheme, the Trustees sold sufﬁcient rights ‘nil paid’ to enable the balance of the rights to be taken up. In the case of the Sharesave
plans and LTIPs the number of shares under option, or subject to awards, was adjusted by the relevant bonus factor. In the case 
of the Sharesave Scheme the option price was also adjusted by the relevant bonus factor. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
118 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Share Schemes continued
The weighted average exercise prices were: 
2008 2007
Outstanding at the start of the year £11.89 £9.55
Granted during the year £17.53 £15.00
Exercised during the year £9.18 £7.94
Lapsed / cancelled during the year £12.37 £9.70
Outstanding at the end of the year £14.14 £11.89
Exercisable at the end of the year £9.13 £8.17
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £4.41 (2007: £4.42).
Pricing
For the purposes of valuing awards to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been
used for all the share option and share matching schemes and for the LTIPs except for the LTIPs granted since November 2005,
where the Monte Carlo model has been used. 
A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
2008 2007
Sharesave Share match Sharesave Share match
Risk-free interest rate 4.1% – 5.5% 4.1% 4.6% – 5.6% 5.2%
Volatility 24.0% – 26.0% 21.0% 15.0% – 20.0% 17.0%
Expected lives of options granted 3 – 5 yrs + 6 mths 3 yrs 3 – 5 yrs + 6 mths 3 yrs
Dividend yield 3.3% 3.3% 3.6% 3.6%
Fair value £3.77 – £5.30 £19.18 £3.97 – £5.00 £17.40
Share price used to determine exercise price £21.87 – £22.24 £21.17 £18.69 – £19.00 £19.40
Exercise price £17.50 – £17.81 n/a £14.96 – £15.45 n/a
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte Carlo model for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP , in
determining fair value at grant date. Assumptions used in this model were as follows:
2008 2007
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 18.0% 15.0%
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 3.3% 3.6%
Share price volatility of tobacco and alcohol comparator group 12.0% – 27.0% 13.0% – 21.0%
Share price volatility of FTSE 100 comparator group 11.0% – 71.0% 11.0% – 46.0%
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the companies 
in the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 23.0% 26.0%
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the companies in the FTSE 100 
comparator group 30.0% 20.0%
For both the Black-Scholes model and the Monte Carlo model, volatility is determined based on the three or ﬁve year share price
history (the time period being determined by the length of the scheme). www.imperial-tobacco.com 119
22. Changes in Equity
Equity
attributable
Exchange to equity
Share Share Retained translation holders of
In £s million capital premium earnings reserve the Company
At 1 October 2006 73 964 (423) (35) 579 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company – – 905 – 905 
Actuarial gains on retirement beneﬁts – – 202 – 202 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement beneﬁts – – (59) – (59)
Current tax on share-based payments – – 5 – 5 
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts – – 7 – 7 
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts – – (55) – (55)
Costs of employees’ services compensated 
by share schemes – – 15 – 15 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares – – (105) – (105)
Dividends paid – – (434) – (434)
Exchange movements – – – 58 58 
At 30 September 2007 73 964 58 23 1,118 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity 
holders of the Company – – 428 – 428
Actuarial losses on retirement beneﬁts – – (156) – (156)
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial losses 
on retirement beneﬁts – – 57 – 57 
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – (6) – (6)
Current tax on share-based payments – – 1 – 1
Current tax on exchange movements – – – (88) (88)
Proceeds from sale of shares held by Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts – – 5 – 5
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts – – (26) – (26)
Costs of employees’ services compensated 
by share schemes – – 18 – 18
Rights issue 34 4,962 – – 4,996
Rights issue costs – (93) – – (93)
Dividends paid – – (487) – (487)
Other movements – – (1) – (1)
Exchange movements – – – 541 541
At 30 September 2008 107 5,833 (109) 476 6,307
Cumulative goodwill of £2,410 million relating to acquisitions prior to 1998 was written off directly to reserves in line with the
requirements of the accounting standards that were in force at the time.
Treasury shares
2008 2007
Millions of Millions of
In £s million unless otherwise indicated shares Cost shares Cost
At 1 October 51.7 862 46.0 757 
Net investment in own shares in the year – – 5.7 105 
At 30 September 51.7 862 51.7 862 
Details of the Group’s share buyback programme may be found in note (vi) to the parent company accounts. Notes to the Financial Statements continued
120 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. Changes in Equity continued
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts
In millions of shares 2008 2007
At 1 October 4.8 4.2 
Acquired under rights issue 0.7 – 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1.5) (2.0)
Purchase of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 0.9 2.6 
At 30 September 4.9 4.8 
23. Minority Interests
In £s million 2008 2007
At 1 October 23 19 
Exchange movements 29 1 
Acquisition of Altadis 413 – 
Purchase of Logista minority interest (420) – 
Share of net proﬁt 13 7 
Dividends (9) (4)
At 30 September 49 23 
24. Acquisitions
2008
On 25 January 2008 the Spanish Securities Exchange Commission, the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores (“CNMV”),
announced that acceptances representing 95.81% of Altadis, S.A.’s share capital had been received and Imperial Tobacco’s offer 
to purchase Altadis had become unconditional. The Group exercised the squeeze-out provision available under Spanish law on 
25 January 2008 to compulsorily purchase the remaining shares at the offer price of €50 per share. The squeeze-out was completed 
on 21 February 2008. As a consequence the acquisition has been fully consolidated from 25 January 2008 when the Group obtained
control of Altadis.
Through the acquisition of Altadis, the Group acquired direct control of Logista, and pursuant to its obligations under Spanish
regulations, the Group made an offer for those shares in Logista not already owned by Altadis. The offer, at a price of €52.50 per
share, completed on 6 May 2008, resulting in a total shareholding in Logista of 96.92%. The remainder of the shares were
subsequently acquired on 9 June 2008 by using the squeeze-out provision available under Spanish law. 
In the period from 25 January 2008 to 30 September 2008, the acquired business contributed revenue of £6,916 million and loss
from operations of £153 million after charging £245 million for amortisation of acquired intangibles and after one-off charges of 
£118 million in relation to stock revalued to fair value at acquisition and sold during the period. If the acquisition had occurred on 
1 October 2007, Group revenue would have been £23,602 million and Group proﬁt from operations for the year would have
amounted to £1,212 million, these amounts having been estimated by including Altadis’ results for the four months prior to
acquisition adjusted to reﬂect the Group’s accounting policies and changes in depreciation and amortisation due to fair value
adjustments.
In May 2008, the Group acquired Lignum 2 Inc., a seller of quality discount cigarettes in the United States, for a total of £11 million
cash. Its net assets had nil book and fair value, giving rise to goodwill of £11 million.
During the year the Group also acquired interests in a number of small businesses. The aggregate consideration for these acquisitions
amounted to £3 million. Full IFRS disclosures have not been provided for these small acquisitions as they are not considered to be
signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
During 2005 the Group acquired a 43% interest in Skruf Snus AB. The acquisition agreement included a commitment to acquire the
remaining shares and provided the Group with immediate control of its operating and ﬁnancial policies. Accordingly the acquisition
was accounted for as a 100% subsidiary to reﬂect the substance of the transaction. In June 2008 the Group acquired the remaining
57% for a consideration of £39 million. This amount exceeded the £10 million contingent consideration originally booked by 
£29 million, which has been recorded as goodwill. No further consideration is payable to the former shareholders. www.imperial-tobacco.com 121
Details of Altadis’ net assets and goodwill arising on the acquisition of Altadis and the subsequent purchase of the minority interest in
Logista are as follows:
Provisional Provisional
fair value fair value
In £s million Book value adjustments under IFRS
Intangibles 484 6,038 6,522 
Property, plant and equipment 638 375 1,013
Investments in associates 13 – 13
Inventories 1,378 81 1,459
Trade and other receivables 2,020 – 2,020
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 28 (6) 22
Cash 593 – 593
Borrowings (1,715) 40 (1,675)
Trade and other payables (4,493) (23) (4,516)
Current and deferred tax 152 (2,079) (1,927)
Retirement beneﬁt net liabilities (148) – (148)
Provisions (210) (242) (452)
Investment in Aldeasa 50 152 202 
Net assets (1,210) 4,336 3,126
Minority interests (183) (230) (413)
Goodwill 6,687
Consideration for the acquisition of Altadis 9,400
Minority interest in Logista at 6 May 2008 420
Additional goodwill 311
Consideration for the purchase of Logista minority 731
Total goodwill in relation to Altadis and Logista 6,998
Total consideration for Altadis and Logista 10,131
The provisional fair value adjustments represent management’s current best estimates of the adjustments required to restate Altadis’
assets from book value to fair value at acquisition. The principal provisional fair value adjustments are in respect of intangibles, which
comprise cigarette and cigar trademarks and supply contracts and have been independently valued using the income method, and
property, plant and equipment for which we have engaged independent valuers. With the exception of premium cigar trademarks that
the Directors have determined have an indeﬁnite life, cigarette and mass market cigar trademarks are being amortised on a straight
line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging from 20 to 30 years. Supply contracts are being amortised over periods ranging
from 3 to 15 years. The goodwill of £6,998 million arising on the acquisition of Altadis represents a strategic premium to acquire
Altadis’ leading positions in the world cigar market and the Western European logistics market, the synergies expected to be realised
following acquisition and the assembled sales, manufacturing and distribution workforces.
The Group’s share of Aldeasa’s assets and liabilities had been classiﬁed as held for sale upon acquisition and fair valued at that date
at €275 million (£202 million). The investment in Aldeasa was disposed of on 14 April 2008 for cash consideration of €275 million at
no proﬁt or loss.
Consideration for Altadis satisﬁed by:
In £s million
Cash 9,358
Direct costs related to the acquisition 42
Total consideration 9,400
Consideration for Logista minority satisﬁed by:
In £s million
Cash 729
Direct costs related to the acquisition 2
Total consideration 731 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
122 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. Acquisitions continued
The purchase price for Altadis on a debt free basis is as follows:
In £s million
Total consideration 9,400
Borrowings at acquisition 1,675
Cash (593)
Total purchase price 10,482
Cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions
In £s million
Altadis
Total consideration 9,400
Exchange rate movements between completion and settlement of the acquisition 33
Fees paid by Altadis 18
Cash acquired (593)
8,858
Total consideration for Logista minority 731
Other businesses acquired 53
Acquisition cash ﬂows reﬂected in investing activities in consolidated cash ﬂow statement 9,642
2007
On 2 April 2007, the Group acquired from Houchens Industries Inc 100% of the share capital of CBHC Inc, which trades as
Commonwealth Brands and manufactures and sells quality discount cigarettes across the United States. The acquired business
contributed revenue of £252 million and proﬁt from operations of £35 million after charging £17 million for amortisation of acquired
intangibles in the period from 2 April 2007 to 30 September 2007. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2006, Group revenue
would have been £12,561 million and Group proﬁt from operations for the year would have amounted to £1,446 million, these
amounts having been estimated by including Commonwealth Brands’ results for the six months prior to acquisition adjusted to reﬂect
the Group’s accounting policies and changes in depreciation and amortisation due to fair value adjustments. 
During the year the Group also acquired interests in a number of small businesses including in January 2007 a controlling interest in
Tremaco, a tobacco and tobacco-related products distribution business based in Estonia. The aggregate consideration for these
acquisitions amounted to £1 million. Full IFRS disclosures have not been provided for these small acquisitions as they are not
considered to be signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole.
Details of Commonwealth Brands’ net assets acquired are as follows:
Fair value Fair value
In £s million Book value adjustments under IFRS
Intangibles 163 507 670 
Property, plant and equipment 14 (4) 10 
Inventories 37 – 37 
Trade and other receivables 6 – 6 
Unrestricted cash 29 – 29 
Restricted cash 123 – 123 
Trade and other payables (177) (4) (181)
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands (194) – (194)
Borrowings (279) – (279)
Net assets (278) 499 221 
Goodwill 305 
Total consideration 526 
The fair value adjustment in respect of intangibles relates to Commonwealth Brands’ cigarette brands, principally USA Gold and
Sonoma, which have been independently valued using the income method. The intangibles are being amortised over their estimated
useful lives of 20 years. Goodwill represents a strategic premium to immediately establish critical mass in the US market and acquire
assembled sales, manufacturing and distribution workforces. www.imperial-tobacco.com 123
Consideration for Commonwealth Brands satisﬁed by:
In £s million
Cash 516 
Direct costs related to the acquisition 10 
Total consideration 526 
The purchase price for Commonwealth Brands on a debt free basis was as follows:
In £s million
Total consideration 526 
Dividend payable to Houchens by Commonwealth Brands 194 
Borrowings at acquisition 279 
Unrestricted cash (29)
Total purchase price 970 
Cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions 
In £s million
Commonwealth Brands
Total consideration 526 
Dividend paid to Houchens at acquisition 194 
Borrowings repaid at acquisition 279 
Unrestricted cash acquired (29)
970 
Other businesses acquired 1 
Total cash ﬂows arising due to acquisitions 971 
Direct costs related to Commonwealth Brands acquisition not paid at the balance sheet date (5)
Acquisition cash ﬂows reﬂected in investing activities in consolidated cash ﬂow statement 966 
25. Commitments
Capital commitments
In £s million 2008 2007
Contracted but not provided for:
Property, plant and equipment 51 50 
Operating lease commitments
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due:
In £s million 2008 2007
Property
Within one year 13 5 
Between one and ﬁve years 37 12 
Beyond ﬁve years 14 10 
64 27
Plant and equipment (including ﬁxtures and motor vehicles)
Within one year 5 2 
Between one and ﬁve years 8 4 
Beyond ﬁve years – – 
13 6  Notes to the Financial Statements continued
124 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26. Legal Proceedings
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-
related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being
vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that 
the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash flow or financial condition 
of the Group.
In August 2003 the Group received a notice from the Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (“OFT”) requiring the provision of documents and
information relating to an investigation under UK competition law. In April 2008 the OFT released a press statement indicating that it
proposed to issue a statement of objections (“SO”) to a number of retailers and two tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial
Tobacco. Imperial Tobacco’s detailed written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT in August 2008. An oral hearing has been
scheduled for 3 December 2008 for Imperial Tobacco’s representatives to make submissions to the OFT in defence of its allegations.
No timetable for the remainder of the OFT’s enquiry has been published. In light of the responses it receives to the SO, the OFT may
decide to close the investigation, present additional evidence by issuing a supplemental SO, or proceed to an infringement decision.
In the event that the OFT decides that Imperial Tobacco has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a ﬁne, calculated by
reference to ITG turnover. If the OFT were subsequently to make an infringement ﬁnding against us, we would be able to appeal the
ﬁnding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal (“CAT”).
The CAT has the right to conduct a full rehearing of the facts considered by the OFT and overturn or adjust any penalty that the OFT
imposed. There is a further right to appeal from the CAT to the Court of Appeal, which is limited to appeal on a point of law. In respect
of the OFT enquiry, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in this or any preceding year.
We take compliance with competition law very seriously and reject any suggestion that we have acted in any way contrary to the
interests of consumers.
27. Cash Flows from Operating Activities
In £s million 2008 2007
Proﬁt for the year 441 912 
Adjustments for:
Taxation 180 325 
Finance costs 938 499 
Investment income (402) (318)
Share of post-tax proﬁts of associates (2) – 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 457 115 
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) (2)
Proﬁt on the divestment of brands (174) – 
Net retirement beneﬁts 6 4 
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes 18 15 
Fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 314 – 
Movement in provisions 388 (37)
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 2,163 1,513 
Increase in inventories (44) (141)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 21 (149)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (39) 96 
Movement in working capital (62) (194)
Taxation paid (401) (320)
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 1,700 999  www.imperial-tobacco.com 125
28. Analysis of Net Debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivative ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁnance lease liabilities in the year were
as follows:
Cash and Derivative Finance
cash Current Non-current ﬁnancial lease
In £s million equivalents borrowings borrowings instruments liabilities Total
At 1 October 2007 380 (1,067) (4,053) (148) – (4,888)
Cash ﬂow 146 206 (4,375) 175 1 (3,847)
Acquisitions – (739) (906) 22 (30) (1,653)
Accretion of interest – (6) (47) –– (53)
Change in fair values ––– (117) – (117)
Reclassiﬁcations – (359) 359 – 5 5
Exchange movements 116 (713) (536) 1 (2) (1,134)
At 30 September 2008 642 (2,678) (9,558) (67) (26) (11,687)
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of interest
rate derivative ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁnance lease liabilities.
In £s million 2008 2007
Reported net debt (11,687) (4,888)
Accrued interest 158 88 
Fair value of interest rate derivatives (40) 15 
Finance lease liabilities 26 – 
Adjusted net debt (11,543) (4,785)
29. Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
In £s million 2008 2007
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 146 104 
Settlement of exchange rate derivative ﬁnancial instruments (13) – 
Collateralisation deposits 188 – 
Increase in borrowings (13,815) (2,324)
Repayment of borrowings 9,646 1,317 
Repayment of ﬁnance leases 1 – 
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂows (3,847) (903)
Exchange movements (1,134) (1)
Borrowings acquired with subsidiaries (1,645) – 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments acquired with subsidiaries 22 – 
Finance leases acquired with subsidiaries (25) – 
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative ﬁnancial instruments (170) (105)
Movement in net debt during the year (6,799) (1,009)
Opening net debt (4,888) (3,879)
Closing net debt (11,687) (4,888) Notes to the Financial Statements continued
126 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. Balances and Transactions with Associates and Joint Ventures
Assets Liabilities Goods and services
2008 Accounts Current Accounts
In £s million receivable loans payable Purchases Sales 
Associates
Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle des Tabacs Africains – – (3) – –
Compañía Española de Tabaco en Rama (Cetarsa), S.A. – – (3) 9 2
MITSA 1 – – – 1 
Manufacture des Tabacs de l’Ouest Africain – – – 3 – 
Tabacos Elaborados, S.A. 4 – (3) 6 9 
5 – (9) 18 12
Joint ventures
Corporación Habanos, S.A. 4 – (15) 16 – 
Promotora de Cigarros, S.L. – 2 – 2 1
4 2 (15) 18 1
9 2 (24) 36 13 
The Group’s interests in the associates and joint ventures listed above were acquired through the acquisition of Altadis in January
2008 with the exception of Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle des Tabacs Africains and Manufacture des Tabacs de l’Ouest Africain.
In 2007 there were no signiﬁcant transactions or balances with associates and joint ventures.
31. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 7 October 2008 the Group acquired the outstanding 49% minority shareholdings in 800 JR Cigar and MCM Management for
USD81 million. Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
www.imperial-tobacco.com 127
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 
30 September 2008.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set
out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with section 235
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our
prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the
Directors is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company
ﬁnancial statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement, the Strategic and
Financial Review, the Operating Review, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited parts of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2008; 
> the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
> the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Bristol
26 November 2008
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
128 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 September 30 September
In £s million Notes 2008 2007
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries (ii) 1,035 1,035 
Current assets
Debtors (iii) 5,637 1,060 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (iv) (16) (456)
Net current assets 5,621 604 
Total assets less current liabilities 6,656 1,639 
Net assets 6,656 1,639 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (v) 107 73 
Share premium account (vi) 5,833 964 
Proﬁt and loss account (vi) 716 602 
Equity shareholders’ funds 6,656 1,639 
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 128 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2008 and signed on its
behalf by:
Iain Napier Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Balance Sheet
www.imperial-tobacco.com 129
Basis of Preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention, the
Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Investments Held as Fixed Assets
Investments held as ﬁxed assets comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for
impairment.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Company’s ﬁnancial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved
by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate proﬁt and loss account has been presented for the Company.
The Company has not presented a cash ﬂow statement or provided details of related party transactions as permitted under FRS 1
(revised) “Cash ﬂow statements” and FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” respectively. As permitted by paragraph 3C (b) of FRS 25, the
Company has elected not to present FRS 25 disclosures in the notes to its individual ﬁnancial statements as full equivalent
disclosures are presented in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(i) Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year:
In £s million 2008 2007 
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2007 of 42.2p per share (2006: 37.8p) 326 293 
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 of 20.9p per share (2007: 18.2p) 161 141 
487 434 
A ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 of 42.2 pence per share has been proposed. This amounts to £427 million
based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2008. At the year end, the shareholders had not yet approved
the ﬁnal dividend and therefore it is not included in the balance sheet as a liability.
The dividend per share ﬁgures included in the table above reﬂect the bonus element of the rights issue as described in note 20.
(ii) Investments Held as Fixed Assets
In £s million 2008 2007 
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited 1,035 1,035 
1,035 1,035 
A list of the principal subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 131 and 132.
(iii) Debtors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
In £s million 2008 2007 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,633 1,051 
Other debtors and prepayments 4 9 
5,637 1,060 
(iv) Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
In £s million 2008 2007
Bank overdrafts 16 1 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 455 
16 456 
(v) Called Up Share Capital
In £s million 2008 2007
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2007: 56,040,000,000) 5,604 5,604 
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2007: 729,200,921) 107 73 
On 20 May 2008 the Group announced a fully underwritten 1 for 2 rights issue to part ﬁnance the Altadis acquisition. The subscription
price of 1,475 pence per share represented a 30.2% discount to the theoretical ex-rights price after adjusting for the interim dividend,
for which new shares issued under the rights issue were not eligible. The rights issue closed on 11 June 2008, by which time valid
acceptances were received in respect of 329,215,281 new shares representing 97.19% of the total number of new shares offered to
shareholders. The remaining 9,526,679 new shares were placed by the underwriters on 12 June 2008. The total number of new
shares issued was 338,741,960. Proceeds of the rights issue, after costs of £93 million, were £4,903 million. Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
continued
130 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(vi) Reserves
Share Proﬁt
premium and loss
In £s million account account
At 1 October 2007 964 602
Retained proﬁt for the year – 114 
Rights issue 4,962 – 
Rights issue costs (93) – 
At 30 September 2008 5,833 716
Proﬁt for the year
As permitted by section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, the proﬁt and loss account of the Company is not presented. 
The proﬁt attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, is £601 million (2007: £544 million).
Purchase of treasury shares
In 2008 the Company did not buy back any ordinary Imperial Tobacco shares following the suspension of the programme on 
8 February 2007. 
In 2007 the Company purchased 5,713,000 ordinary shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a total cost of £105 million 
including expenses. 
The total number of shares held in treasury is 51,717,000 (2007: 51,717,000) representing 4.8% (2007: 7.1%) of the issued share
capital. The total cost, including expenses, of shares held in treasury is £862 million (2007: £862 million). The shares purchased to
date have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve and represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds
(see note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
(vii) Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 
In £s million 2008 2007 
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation 601 544 
Dividends (487) (434)
Payments for purchase of own shares – (105)
Rights issue 4,996 – 
Rights issue costs (93) – 
Movement in equity shareholders’ funds 5,017 5 
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 1,639 1,634 
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 6,656 1,639 
(viii) Contingent Liabilities
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary 
undertakings, including various Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2008, the contingent liability totalled £11,161 million
(2007: £5,496 million).
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not
ﬁle separate ﬁnancial statements with the Chamber of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued
declarations to assume any and all liability for any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as at 30 September
2008. The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited, John Player Distributors Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar have
therefore availed themselves of the exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect of
documents required to be attached to the annual returns for such companies.
(ix) Other Information
Number of employees
The average number of employees during 2008 was nil (2007: nil).
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 70. These
disclosures form part of the ﬁnancial statements. Principal Subsidiaries
www.imperial-tobacco.com 131
The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales
Name Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Limited* Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC* Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited* Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco International Limited* Export and marketing of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited* Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Incorporated overseas
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity
Altadis S.A., Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products 
in Spain
Altadis Distribution France S.A.S., France Distribution of tobacco products in France
Altadis Financial Services, S.N.C.
1
, France Finance company
Altadis Finland Oy, Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland
Altadis Maroc, S.A., Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products 
in Morocco
Altadis Middle East Fzco., United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East
Altadis USA Inc.
1
, United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United States of America
Commonwealth Brands Inc.*, United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the 
United States of America
Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista, S.A., Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain
Dunkerquoise des Blends S.A.*, France Tobacco processing in France
Ets. L. Lacroix Fils N.V.*, Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium
Imperial Tobacco (Asia) Pte. Ltd.*, Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited*, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco CR s.r.o.*, Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco Hellas S.A.*, Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl*, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg Dohänyforgalmazö Kft*, Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary
Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar*, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of ﬁne cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited*, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Norway A.S.*, Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco Overseas B.V.*, the Netherlands Finance company
Imperial Tobacco Polska S.A.*, Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck Sanayi ve Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey
Ticaret A.S.*, Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A.S.*, Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis ve Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Pazarlama A.S.*, Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine*, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine
John Player & Sons Limited*, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland
John Player S.A.*, Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain
Logista Italia. S.p.A, Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH*, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and 
export of tobacco products
Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited*, China Marketing of tobacco products in China
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Principal Subsidiaries continued
132 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Incorporated overseas continued
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity
OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik*, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC*, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia
Skruf Snus AB*, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Sweden
Société Allumetiére Française S.A.S, France Distribution of wholesale in France
Société Nationalé d’Exploitation Industrielle des Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in France and
Tabacs et des Allumettes S.A, France export of tobacco products
Supergroup S.A.S, France Distribution of wholesale in France
Tobaccor S.A.S.*, France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the manufacture,
marketing and sale of tobacco products in Africa
Van Nelle Canada Limited*, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B.V.*, the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands
The subsidiaries marked * are wholly owned and were held throughout the year with the exception of Skruf Snus AB of which the
remaining 57% was acquired in June 2008 and Imperial Tobacco Polska S.A. of which the remaining 0.1% was acquired in July 2008.
The remaining wholly owned subsidiaries were acquired through the acquisition of Altadis on 25 January 2008 with the exception of
Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista, S.A., of which 59.63% was acquired with Altadis, 37.29% acquired on 6 May 2008 and
3.08% acquired on 9 June 2008, and which wholly owns Logista Italia. S.p.A.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, with the exception of Altadis Polska, S.A., ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda and 800
JR Cigar Inc. which were acquired with Altadis, were held throughout the year, are shown below. All are unlisted unless otherwise
indicated.
Incorporated overseas
Percentage
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned
1
Altadis Polska, S.A., Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 96.4
ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 99.9
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
800 JR Cigar Inc., United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies 51.0
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.6
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs S.A.
2
, Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in the Ivory Coast 74.1
Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Macedonia 99.1
The principal joint ventures of the Group, acquired on 25 January 2008 through the acquisition of Altadis, are shown below. They are
unlisted.
Incorporated overseas
Percentage
Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned
1
Corporación Habanos, S.A., Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0
Altabana S.L., Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved 
in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars 50.0
In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership:
Name and country Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA) GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany
Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, 
Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
The consolidated Group ﬁnancial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception of
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by
the Company. A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
1
The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Altadis USA Inc., and Altadis Financial Services S.N.C.
where the entire issued share capital, and therefore 100% of the voting rights, was held by a number of Group companies. From late September 2008 Altadis Financial Services S.N.C. is 100%
owned by Altadis S.A.
2
Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.  
Shareholder Information 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 133
Registered office 
PO Box 244 
Upton Road 
Bristol BS99 7UJ 
+44 (0)117 963 6636 
Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483 
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
0871 384 2037 
+44 (0)121 415 7009 
0871 384 2255 text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 
ADR Depositary 
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders 
Citibank Shareholder Services 
PO Box 43077 
Providence, RI 02940-3077 
USA 
Toll-free number in the USA:1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) 
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com 
Stockbrokers 
RBS Hoare Govett Limited 
250 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 4AA 
+44 (0)20 7678 8000 
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 
20 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4AD 
+44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
31 Great George Street 
Bristol BS1 5QD 
Lawyers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishop Square 
London E1 6AD 
Ashurst LLP 
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA 
Financial advisers 
Citi 
Citi Centre 
33 Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5LB 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Shareholder Information continued 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 134 
Financial Calendar and Dividends 
Interim results are expected to be announced in May 2009 and the full year’s results in November 2009. 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Tuesday, 3 February 2009 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre.  
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report. 
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2008 final dividend, if approved, will be on 20 February 2009  
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 January 2009. The associated ex dividend date is 21 January 2009. 
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form 
obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown. 
Share Dealing Service 
A low cost, execution-only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares is available from 
NatWest Stockbrokers. NatWest Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of  
the London Stock Exchange and PLUS. For details, please contact: NatWest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, 
London EC1N 2TH, telephone: 0870 600 3070). 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
Investment Account where they can hold their Imperial Tobacco Group shares electronically. The ISA and Investment Account are 
operated by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Commission starts from £5.00 and £1.75 respectively for the sale and purchase  
of shares. 
For a brochure or to apply for an Investment Account or ISA go online to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti on  
0845 300 0430. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy 
further shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex 
BN99 6DA, tel: 0871 384 2268. 
American Depositary Receipt Facility 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the International Premier “OTCQX” platform in the form of American 
Depositary Shares (ADSs) using the symbol “ITYBY”. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.  
The ADS facility is administered by Citibank, N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADS have also been included in the Citibank Dividend Reinvestment Program which provides registered 
holders and interested investors a convenient way to purchase and sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ADSs. 
To obtain further information about the Dividend Reinvestment Program, please call Citibank, N.A., the administrator and sponsor  
toll free within the USA at 1-877-248-4237 (1-877-CITIADR). 
Website 
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
Equiniti also offer a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices  
and dividend details and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Index
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
www.imperial-tobacco.com 135
A
Accounting Policies 77
Acquisitions 11, 120
Adjusted Measures 81
Africa 20, 31
Altadis 3, 7, 120
American Depositary
Receipts/Shares 133
Americas 30
Annual General Meeting 43, 134
Asia 31
Audit Committee 50
Auditors
Remuneration 87
Report 72, 127
Australia 31
Azerbaijan 31
B
Balance Sheet (Parent) 128
Balance Sheet (Consolidated) 75
Belgium 29
Board Committees 45
Board of Directors 38
Borrowings and Derivative
Financial Instruments 95
Burkina Faso 20
Business Overview IFC
C
Cambodia 31
Case Study
Africa and the Middle East 20
United States of America 18
Cash and Cash Equivalents 95
Cash Flows from Operating Activities 124
Cash Flow Statement 76
Cash Management 16
Chad 20
Chairman’s Statement 3
Changes in Equity 119
Chief Executive’s Committee 40, 47
Chief Executive’s Review 6
Commitments 123
Community Investment 36
Congo 21
Contents 1
Corporate Governance Report 44
Corporate Responsibility 6, 35
Cost Focus 16
Creditor Payment Policy 43
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 83
Czech Republic 29
D
Debt 11, 125
Deferred Tax 109
Directors 
Biographies 38
Interests in Shares 61
Pensions 67
Remuneration 55
Responsibilities 53
Directors and Employees 88
Directors’ Report : Business Review 5
Directors’ Report : Governance 37
Disclosure Committee 52
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 134
Dividends 11, 90
Donations 43
E
Earnings Per Share 11, 90
Employees 42, 88
Environmental Management 36
Excise Duty 15, 23
F
Financial Calendar 134
Financial Highlights 2
Financial Review 8
Financial Statements 71
Focus on the Future 14
Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control 22
France 29
G
Germany 27
Glossary 136
Greece 29
Group Performance IFC, 8 
H
Health and Safety 36
Hungary 29
I
Income Statement 74
Industry Outlook 15
Intangible Assets 91
Inventories 94
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 94
Ireland 29
Italy 29
Ivory Coast 20, 31
K
Key Performance Indicators 17
L
Laos 31
Lebanon 31
Legal Proceedings 83, 124
Litigation 24
Logistics 33
M
Madagascar 21
Manufacturing 32
Master Settlement Agreement 18
Middle East 20, 31
Minority Interests 120
Morocco 20, 31
N
Net Debt 11, 125
Net Finance Costs 11, 88
Netherlands 29
Nominations Committee 49
Notes to the Financial Statements 85
O
Operating Review 25
P
Pensions 52, 67, 110
Performance Highlights IFC
Pictorial Health Warnings 22
Poland 29
Principal Subsidiaries 131
Productivity 32
Property, Plant and Equipment 93
Provisions 114
R
Regional Results 10
Registrars 133
Regulation 6, 22
Remuneration Committee 48, 55
Remuneration Report 55
Report of the Directors 41
Rest of EU 29
Rest of the World 31
Restructuring Costs 9, 88
Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes 52, 110
Rights Issue 7, 11, 61, 119
Risk Assessment 22, 51
Russia 31
S
Sales Development 16
Saudi Arabia 21, 31
Segmental Information 85
Senegal 20
Share Buybacks 130
Share Capital 41, 114
Share Schemes 115
Shareholder Information 133
Smoking in Public Places 15, 22
Spain 28
Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense 76
Strategic and Financial Review 5
Strategy 16
T
Taiwan 31
Taxation 11, 89
Total Shareholder Return Index 4
Trade and Other Payables 95
Trade and Other Receivables 94
Travel Retail 10
Turkey 20, 31
U
Ukraine 31
United Kingdom 26
United States of America 18, 30
V
Vietnam 20, 31
W
Where We Operate 12
World Tobacco Market 15 Glossary
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
136 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
Adjusted distribution margin
The adjusted proﬁt from operations 
for the Logistics segment divided by
distribution fees for the Logistics segment.
Attributable earnings
Proﬁt after tax attributable to the 
equity holders of the company.
Adjusted measures
Management believes that reporting
adjusted measures provides a useful
comparison of business performance 
and reﬂects the way in which the business 
is controlled. Accordingly, adjusted
measures of profit from operations, net
ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, taxation,
attributable earnings and earnings 
per share exclude, where applicable,
amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net
financing income, fair value gains and
losses on derivative financial instruments
in respect of commercially effective
hedges, one-off acquisition accounting
adjustments, brand divestment gains 
and related taxation effects. The adjusted
measures in this report are not deﬁned
terms under International Financial
Reporting Standards and may not be
comparable with similarly titled measures
reported by other companies.
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s
borrowing levels using adjusted net debt
which excludes interest accruals, the fair
value of interest rate derivative ﬁnancial
instruments and ﬁnance lease liabilities.
Adjusted operating margin
The adjusted proﬁt from operations for 
the Tobacco segment divided by net
revenue for the Tobacco segment.
Adjusted proﬁt from operations
Proﬁt from operations adjusted for
amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, fair value gains and
losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments
used to commercially hedge investments 
in foreign operations, one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments and brand
divestment gains.
Amortisation
A systematic charge to the income
statement to write off the value of intangible
assets with ﬁnite lives over their useful lives.
Adjusted attributable earnings
Adjusted proﬁt after tax attributable 
to the equity holders of the company.
Cash conversion rate
Cash conversion is calculated as cash 
ﬂow from operations before tax payments 
less net capital expenditure relating 
to property, plant and equipment and
software as a percentage of adjusted 
proﬁt from operations.
Distribution fees
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics
segment revenue excluding the cost 
of distributed products. Management
considers this an important measure 
in assessing the proﬁtability of Logistics
operations.
Earnings per share – adjusted 
Adjusted proﬁt after tax attributable to the
equity holders of the Company divided by
the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period excluding shares
held to satisfy employee share plans and
shares purchased by the Company and
held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share – basic
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity holders
of the Company divided by the weighted
average number of shares in issue during
the period excluding shares held to satisfy
employee share plans and shares
purchased by the Company and 
held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share – diluted
As for basic earnings per share except that
the weighted average number of shares
includes the weighted average number of
shares that would be issued on conversion
of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares
arising from rights under the employee
share plans.
Effective tax rate
The tax charge in the income statement 
as a percentage of proﬁt before taxation.
Enterprise value (EV)
Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Ex dividend date
The date from which shares are traded
without the right to the most recently
declared dividend payment.
Framework Convention 
on Tobacco Control
The World Health Organization’s
Framework Convention on Tobacco
Control (FCTC) is the ﬁrst global 
tobacco treaty that seeks to regulate
tobacco products.
Fine cut tobacco
Loose tobacco which is used with rolling
papers or ﬁlter tubes (including make 
your own and roll your own).
FMC
Factory-made cigarettes.
ISO
The International Organization for
Standardization, widely known as ISO, 
is an international standard-setting body
comprised of representatives from various
national standards organisations. 
It promulgates worldwide industrial 
and commercial standards.
Market capitalisation
The market price of a share multiplied 
by the number of shares in issue.
Market share
Market share represents our best estimate
of the volumes of our brands sold as a
percentage of total market volumes during
the reporting period, including the most
appropriate independent data available. 
We use latest monthly data only where the
moving annual total would be misleading –
for example, if market entry or a signiﬁcant
product launch has taken place part way
through the reporting period.
MYO
Make your own: tobacco which is made
into a cigarette using a tube machine 
and ﬁlter tubes.
Net revenue
Net revenue comprises the Tobacco
segment revenue less duty and similar
items. Management considers this an
important measure in assessing the
proﬁtability of Tobacco operations.
OTP
Other tobacco products – ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff and snus.
Private label
An exclusive retailer or distributor brand
usually in the low-price segment.
Productivity
Productivity is measured as factory output
divided by paid hours.
RYO
Roll your own: tobacco which is used with
rolling papers to hand make cigarettes.
Snus
Snus is a moist oral tobacco product. 
It is manufactured and consumed primarily
in Sweden and Norway.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
The total investment gain to shareholders,
resulting from the movement in the share
price and assuming dividends are
immediately reinvested in shares.
Travel retail
Products made available in a market
principally for travelling consumers.
Volumes
Our volume Key Performance Indicator
(KPI) represents the number of units 
sold in the period.
Weighted average cost of capital
The weighted average of the costs of
various types of capital that ﬁnance a
company or a project. Capital would
generally include a mix of debt and equity. Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
Performance highlights
United
Kingdom
> Our leading cigarette market share 
is at 45.9 per cent 
> We have the UK’s two best-selling
cigarette brands in Lambert & Butler
and Richmond
> We are the clear market leader in fine 
cut tobacco and rolling papers 
Net revenue
£584m
Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
£869m
Germany
> Our cigarette market share grew 
to 27.4 per cent
> JPS is now Germany’s second 
best-selling cigarette brand with
7.8 per cent share 
> Our market share in Other Tobacco
Products increased to 20 per cent
£309m £664m
Spain
> We are the number one across all
tobacco categories in Spain
> Our cigarette market share is 
37.1 per cent with brands including 
Fortuna, Ducados Rubio and Nobel
> Our fine cut tobacco and cigar shares 
are 49.1 and 36.8 per cent respectively 
£150m £411m
Rest of EU
> We increased our cigarette market 
share in many countries in the region
> JPS grew cigarette market share in 
a number of markets and Gauloises
Blondes also performed strongly 
> We have a leading fine cut tobacco
position across the region 
£494m £1,250m
Americas
> Our share of the overall cigarette market
in the USA increased to 4.3 per cent
> Our USA market share in fine cut 
tobacco grew to 8 per cent in September
> We expanded our portfolio with the
launch of Davidoff and Fortuna cigarettes
and Premier fine cut tobacco
£166m £542m
Rest of the
World
> We have grown our cigarette volumes
and delivered market share gains 
across the region
> We had excellent growth in Africa,
the Middle East and Eastern Europe
> With our versatile portfolio we see
significant opportunities for future growth
£404m £1,502m
Logistics
> A good performance in tobacco logistics
reflected a number of factors, including
stable volumes in Spain
> In other products, our traditional
wholesale business performed well 
in a difficult environment
Distribution fees Adjusted proﬁt 
from operations
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
£607m £121m
p26
p27
p28
p29
p30
p31
p33
Get more online at:
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
About Us
Imperial Tobacco is a leading
international tobacco company
which manufactures, markets,
distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of 
cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, 
rolling papers and tubes. 
We continue to build on our 
long track record of creating
sustainable shareholder value.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Company and the 
Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from
those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
See overleaf for an overview of our business today
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper. Park is a CarbonNeutral®
company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001:2004.
100% of the electricity used is generated from renewable sources, 100% of the inks
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use 
and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, an FSC approved paper 
which ensures that all virgin pulp is sourced from well-managed sustainable forests.
Splendorgel uses an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and is totally recyclable.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Information key
Cross reference within report
for more information
p35 We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets 
and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially 
strengthened our business. Gareth Davis, Chief Executive
Significant potential 
for further growth
enhanced geographic footprint, we have
been managing the consultation process
related to our European integration projects. 
These projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support functions
in a number of markets and will improve our
competitiveness by reducing over-capacity
and improving efﬁciencies. 
We concluded the European consultation
process in September and have made very
good progress on the national consultations
and implementation of our projects in 
many markets.
We have completed the mergers of the
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales teams
in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria, Belgium
and Italy, and closed our cigar and ﬁne cut
tobacco factory in Slovakia.
The consultation process in France and
the UK has been completed, enabling us
to begin implementing our projects in these
markets in early 2009, while in Spain and
Germany the consultations are ongoing. 
We continue to offer comprehensive 
support to all employees affected by 
our integration projects.
Regulation
We continue to effectively manage the
increasing levels of regulation affecting
our industry. We support sound and
proportionate regulation that respects
adult freedom of choice and recognises
that tobacco products are enjoyed by
millions of people worldwide. We have a
long history of co-operation with authorities 
in the markets in which we operate and
remain committed to continuing to work
constructively with individual governments
and other regulatory bodies.
Corporate Responsibility
Our ongoing commitment to manage our
business responsibly is fundamental to our
long-term success. As a global tobacco
company we recognise the importance of
manufacturing, marketing and selling our
products responsibly. 
Over the years we have taken an increasingly
strategic approach to promoting responsible
behaviour through deﬁned governance
structures, group principles and policies. 
Chief Executive’s Review
We have also established robust risk
management procedures, progressed 
our non-ﬁnancial performance reporting
processes and further developed our 
Five-for-Five corporate responsibility initiative
which was launched last year. 
Our People 
The development of our employees is critical
if we are to continue delivering sustainable
shareholder value and I am proud of the
success of the leadership programmes we
have in place. We seek to support and
develop people in all functions and at all
levels, from senior managers to employees
who are at an early stage of their career. 
Our programmes are run on an international
basis and participants are often tasked with
managing business projects on behalf of the
Chief Executive’s Committee. I have been
extremely impressed with the results, which
have highlighted the signiﬁcant and growing
talent pool we have within the business.
Outlook
The integration of Altadis will remain a priority
going forward. We have an excellent track
record of integrating new businesses into the
Group and remain on course to successfully
deliver our targeted cost savings. 
Leveraging our enhanced operating platform
and stronger, more diversiﬁed brand and
product portfolio will be key to driving future
growth and I am conﬁdent that we will realise
the potential of the many opportunities that
lie ahead. 
Combined with our ongoing focus on cost
and effectively managing our cash, we
remain well placed to continue to create
sustainable value for our shareholders.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
Imperial Tobacco is a leading international
tobacco company which manufactures,
markets, distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of cigarettes, 
tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Get more online at: www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
Registered in England and 
Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0871 384 2037
+44 (0)121 415 7009
0871 384 2255 text phone
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Performance Summary 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
Performance Overview
The acquisition of Altadis has been the
highlight of an eventful year for Imperial
Tobacco. Our overall cigarette volumes
were up 46 per cent to 292 billion cigarettes,
including contributions from Altadis and
Commonwealth Brands.
Our cigarette portfolio is complemented by
our world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco and
cigars. Overall, ﬁne cut tobacco volumes
were up to 25,150 tonnes, while cigar
volumes were 2.5 billion.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced
geographic proﬁle and multi-product portfolio
and during the year we increased our cigarette
and ﬁne cut tobacco shares and volumes
across many territories. 
Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff
and Gauloises Blondes, performed very well,
complemented by further growth from a
number of regional brands including Gitanes
and JPS.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth by
developing our brands and products through
investment and innovation, supported by
excellent trade marketing skills and strong
sales forces. 
Our versatile portfolio is characterised by
great brands and products across all price
segments, which provides considerable
growth opportunities given the large and
diverse number of markets in which
we operate.
Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of
premium brands, we also have particular
strength in the value segment enabling us
to capitalise on consumer downtrading in
mature markets, a trend that is likely to
continue in the current economic climate.
Our continued success in the contrasting
markets of the USA, Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East was particularly pleasing
and demonstrates our ability to successfully
develop our business in both mature and
emerging markets.
Integration
The integration of Imperial Tobacco and
Altadis has been a key focus during the year. 
Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities
presented by our combined portfolio and  Financial Highlights
Volumes 2008 Change 2007
Cigarettes (billion) 291.8 +46% 200.3
Cigars (million) 2,452 >100% 316
Fine cut tobacco (tonnes) 25,150 +3% 24,450
In £s million 2008 Change 2007
Revenue 20,528 +66% 12,344
Profit from operations 1,157 -18% 1,418
Adjusted profit from operations 2,230 +51% 1,475
Profit before tax 621 -50% 1,237
Adjusted profit before tax 1,607 +30% 1,238
Attributable earnings 428 -53% 905
Adjusted attributable earnings 1,159 +26% 921
Distribution to shareholders 588 +26% 467
In pence 2008 Change 2007
Basic earnings per share 50.6 -57% 116.7
Adjusted earnings per share 136.9 +15% 118.8
Diluted earnings per share 50.4 -57% 116.2
Dividend per share 63.1 +4% 60.4
Results include the contribution from Altadis since completion of the acquisition on 25 January 2008 and the 2007 per share ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the bonus
element of the related rights issue.
Proﬁt from operations, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, basic and diluted earnings per share are impacted, where applicable, by amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, certain fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments, an exceptional gain on brand divestments, charges for one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments, retirement beneﬁt net ﬁnancing income and related taxation effects. 
Earnings per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average shares in issue of 846.5 million (2007: 775.5 million). Dividend per share has been determined using 
the current shares eligible for the ﬁnal dividend of 1,011.3 million (2007: 672.8 million), applying our policy of distributing around 50 per cent of adjusted attributable earnings.
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where
applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments
in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects. Reconciliations between
adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs, adjusted and reported taxation, and adjusted and reported earnings per share are
included in the notes to the full accounts available via our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com. The adjusted measures in this performance summary are not deﬁned 
terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  
Chairman’s Statement
In what was a year of signiﬁcant achievement
for Imperial Tobacco we delivered another
good operational and ﬁnancial performance.
Earnings and Dividends
Our adjusted earnings per share have
risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 50.6 pence 
(2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted for the bonus
element of the rights issue in June 2008),
primarily impacted by restructuring costs,
fair value movements on derivatives,
amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
one-off acquisition accounting adjustments,
partially offset by brand divestment gains. 
Adjusted attributable earnings grew by
26 per cent to a little under £1.2 billion. 
In line with our policy, the Board is proposing
to pay out half of this as ordinary dividends.
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend of
42.2 pence per share, bringing the total for
the year to 63.1 pence (2007: 60.4 pence,
adjusted for the bonus element of the rights
issue in June 2008).
1
Altadis
On 25 January 2008 we completed the
acquisition of Altadis, signiﬁcantly enhancing
our business proﬁle. We have a strong track
record in acquisitions and a reputation for
integrating new businesses efﬁciently. 
The enlarged Group has around 40,000
employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an
extended geographic reach and a more
versatile brand and product portfolio,
including international strength in cigarette
and world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars and rolling papers. We now also
have a leading logistics platform in Europe. 
As part of the integration process
we announced a number of European
restructuring projects in June which will
enable us to strengthen our competitive
position and deliver the previously announced
annual operating efﬁciencies of approximately
€300 million by the end of the ﬁnancial
year ending 30 September 2010, rising to
approximately €400 million by the end of the
ﬁnancial year ending 30 September 2012. 
The estimated one-off cash cost of achieving
these efﬁciencies is approximately €600 million.
Regrettably, these projects are impacting our
workforce and we are committed to providing 
a comprehensive range of support measures
to assist affected employees. 
Driving Operational Performance
Altadis and integration have been key
priorities during the year but we have also
remained focused on driving the operational
performance of the enlarged business, which
included an eight month contribution from
Altadis and the ﬁrst full year contribution 
from Commonwealth Brands.
Whilst building on our strong proﬁt base 
in mature markets we pursue growth in
emerging markets and this year we made
excellent progress in Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East.
The USA is another important growth market
and one where our cigarette and ﬁne cut
tobacco shares further increased in the year. 
These positive operational developments are
underpinned by our ongoing focus on reducing
costs and effectively managing our cash. 
The Rights Issue
From the outset, we said that the acquisition
of Altadis would be part funded by a 
rights issue. 
At our half-yearly results in May we
announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a share
price of 1475 pence per share to raise 
£4.9 billion. The rights issue was sized at 
the minimum level required to maintain our
investment grade credit rating, to which we
remain committed. 
Given the uncertainties affecting the capital
markets this year, it was gratifying to see that
the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent and the
remainder of the shares were successfully
sold in the market.
Following the success of the rights issue
and two bond issues in September, we are
comfortable with our current ﬁnancing position.
Corporate Governance
As a major international company we seek to
act in a fair and responsible manner towards
all stakeholders. 
It is the Board’s duty to review and approve
our Company’s policies in this regard. 
We have in place processes which enable 
us to meet the high standards of conduct
expected of our Company. 
In September, we delisted from the New York
Stock Exchange as part of our ongoing
programme of business simpliﬁcation. 
This will not compromise the integrity of
our Corporate Governance and internal
control procedures and we will continue
to communicate regularly with our investors
based in the USA. 
Board Changes
David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director and
Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman, retired
during the year and I would like to express
my sincere thanks to them for their
contribution to the Company. 
There have been several new additions to 
the Imperial Tobacco Board during the year. 
We were delighted to welcome 
Jean-Dominique Comolli, former Chairman 
of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive
Deputy Chairman. We also welcomed 
Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both former
board members of Altadis, to our Board as 
Non-Executive Directors. 
All have a tremendous wealth of international
business experience and their knowledge 
of the tobacco industry will be invaluable in
ensuring that we maximise the signiﬁcant
opportunities the enlarged Group offers.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our
employees for their contribution to another
successful year. Imperial Tobacco and Altadis
employees have developed strong working
relationships and their combined skills and
expertise will enable us to create further
sustainable value for our shareholders. 
The turbulent economic conditions are
unlikely to change in the short term but 
we are resilient and highly cash generative.
With our enhanced geographic and brand
proﬁle, and strong business fundamentals,
we can look to the future with conﬁdence.
Iain Napier
Chairman
The past year has again demonstrated the success of our
strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
Iain Napier, Chairman
Delivering value 
across the Group
Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1
If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid
on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 23 January 2009.
We continue to build on our long track record
of creating sustainable shareholder value. Financial Highlights
Volumes 2008 Change 2007
Cigarettes (billion) 291.8 +46% 200.3
Cigars (million) 2,452 >100% 316
Fine cut tobacco (tonnes) 25,150 +3% 24,450
In £s million 2008 Change 2007
Revenue 20,528 +66% 12,344
Profit from operations 1,157 -18% 1,418
Adjusted profit from operations 2,230 +51% 1,475
Profit before tax 621 -50% 1,237
Adjusted profit before tax 1,607 +30% 1,238
Attributable earnings 428 -53% 905
Adjusted attributable earnings 1,159 +26% 921
Distribution to shareholders 588 +26% 467
In pence 2008 Change 2007
Basic earnings per share 50.6 -57% 116.7
Adjusted earnings per share 136.9 +15% 118.8
Diluted earnings per share 50.4 -57% 116.2
Dividend per share 63.1 +4% 60.4
Results include the contribution from Altadis since completion of the acquisition on 25 January 2008 and the 2007 per share ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the bonus
element of the related rights issue.
Proﬁt from operations, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, basic and diluted earnings per share are impacted, where applicable, by amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, certain fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments, an exceptional gain on brand divestments, charges for one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments, retirement beneﬁt net ﬁnancing income and related taxation effects. 
Earnings per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average shares in issue of 846.5 million (2007: 775.5 million). Dividend per share has been determined using 
the current shares eligible for the ﬁnal dividend of 1,011.3 million (2007: 672.8 million), applying our policy of distributing around 50 per cent of adjusted attributable earnings.
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where
applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments
in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects. Reconciliations between
adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs, adjusted and reported taxation, and adjusted and reported earnings per share are
included in the notes to the full accounts available via our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com. The adjusted measures in this performance summary are not deﬁned 
terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  
Chairman’s Statement
In what was a year of signiﬁcant achievement
for Imperial Tobacco we delivered another
good operational and ﬁnancial performance.
Earnings and Dividends
Our adjusted earnings per share have
risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 50.6 pence 
(2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted for the bonus
element of the rights issue in June 2008),
primarily impacted by restructuring costs,
fair value movements on derivatives,
amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
one-off acquisition accounting adjustments,
partially offset by brand divestment gains. 
Adjusted attributable earnings grew by
26 per cent to a little under £1.2 billion. 
In line with our policy, the Board is proposing
to pay out half of this as ordinary dividends.
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend of
42.2 pence per share, bringing the total for
the year to 63.1 pence (2007: 60.4 pence,
adjusted for the bonus element of the rights
issue in June 2008).
1
Altadis
On 25 January 2008 we completed the
acquisition of Altadis, signiﬁcantly enhancing
our business proﬁle. We have a strong track
record in acquisitions and a reputation for
integrating new businesses efﬁciently. 
The enlarged Group has around 40,000
employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an
extended geographic reach and a more
versatile brand and product portfolio,
including international strength in cigarette
and world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars and rolling papers. We now also
have a leading logistics platform in Europe. 
As part of the integration process
we announced a number of European
restructuring projects in June which will
enable us to strengthen our competitive
position and deliver the previously announced
annual operating efﬁciencies of approximately
€300 million by the end of the ﬁnancial
year ending 30 September 2010, rising to
approximately €400 million by the end of the
ﬁnancial year ending 30 September 2012. 
The estimated one-off cash cost of achieving
these efﬁciencies is approximately €600 million.
Regrettably, these projects are impacting our
workforce and we are committed to providing 
a comprehensive range of support measures
to assist affected employees. 
Driving Operational Performance
Altadis and integration have been key
priorities during the year but we have also
remained focused on driving the operational
performance of the enlarged business, which
included an eight month contribution from
Altadis and the ﬁrst full year contribution 
from Commonwealth Brands.
Whilst building on our strong proﬁt base 
in mature markets we pursue growth in
emerging markets and this year we made
excellent progress in Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East.
The USA is another important growth market
and one where our cigarette and ﬁne cut
tobacco shares further increased in the year. 
These positive operational developments are
underpinned by our ongoing focus on reducing
costs and effectively managing our cash. 
The Rights Issue
From the outset, we said that the acquisition
of Altadis would be part funded by a 
rights issue. 
At our half-yearly results in May we
announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a share
price of 1475 pence per share to raise 
£4.9 billion. The rights issue was sized at 
the minimum level required to maintain our
investment grade credit rating, to which we
remain committed. 
Given the uncertainties affecting the capital
markets this year, it was gratifying to see that
the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent and the
remainder of the shares were successfully
sold in the market.
Following the success of the rights issue
and two bond issues in September, we are
comfortable with our current ﬁnancing position.
Corporate Governance
As a major international company we seek to
act in a fair and responsible manner towards
all stakeholders. 
It is the Board’s duty to review and approve
our Company’s policies in this regard. 
We have in place processes which enable 
us to meet the high standards of conduct
expected of our Company. 
In September, we delisted from the New York
Stock Exchange as part of our ongoing
programme of business simpliﬁcation. 
This will not compromise the integrity of
our Corporate Governance and internal
control procedures and we will continue
to communicate regularly with our investors
based in the USA. 
Board Changes
David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director and
Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman, retired
during the year and I would like to express
my sincere thanks to them for their
contribution to the Company. 
There have been several new additions to 
the Imperial Tobacco Board during the year. 
We were delighted to welcome 
Jean-Dominique Comolli, former Chairman 
of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive
Deputy Chairman. We also welcomed 
Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both former
board members of Altadis, to our Board as 
Non-Executive Directors. 
All have a tremendous wealth of international
business experience and their knowledge 
of the tobacco industry will be invaluable in
ensuring that we maximise the signiﬁcant
opportunities the enlarged Group offers.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our
employees for their contribution to another
successful year. Imperial Tobacco and Altadis
employees have developed strong working
relationships and their combined skills and
expertise will enable us to create further
sustainable value for our shareholders. 
The turbulent economic conditions are
unlikely to change in the short term but 
we are resilient and highly cash generative.
With our enhanced geographic and brand
proﬁle, and strong business fundamentals,
we can look to the future with conﬁdence.
Iain Napier
Chairman
The past year has again demonstrated the success of our
strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
Iain Napier, Chairman
Delivering value 
across the Group
Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1
If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid
on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 23 January 2009.
We continue to build on our long track record
of creating sustainable shareholder value. Financial Highlights
Volumes 2008 Change 2007
Cigarettes (billion) 291.8 +46% 200.3
Cigars (million) 2,452 >100% 316
Fine cut tobacco (tonnes) 25,150 +3% 24,450
In £s million 2008 Change 2007
Revenue 20,528 +66% 12,344
Profit from operations 1,157 -18% 1,418
Adjusted profit from operations 2,230 +51% 1,475
Profit before tax 621 -50% 1,237
Adjusted profit before tax 1,607 +30% 1,238
Attributable earnings 428 -53% 905
Adjusted attributable earnings 1,159 +26% 921
Distribution to shareholders 588 +26% 467
In pence 2008 Change 2007
Basic earnings per share 50.6 -57% 116.7
Adjusted earnings per share 136.9 +15% 118.8
Diluted earnings per share 50.4 -57% 116.2
Dividend per share 63.1 +4% 60.4
Results include the contribution from Altadis since completion of the acquisition on 25 January 2008 and the 2007 per share ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the bonus
element of the related rights issue.
Proﬁt from operations, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, basic and diluted earnings per share are impacted, where applicable, by amortisation of acquired intangibles,
restructuring costs, certain fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments, an exceptional gain on brand divestments, charges for one-off acquisition
accounting adjustments, retirement beneﬁt net ﬁnancing income and related taxation effects. 
Earnings per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average shares in issue of 846.5 million (2007: 775.5 million). Dividend per share has been determined using 
the current shares eligible for the ﬁnal dividend of 1,011.3 million (2007: 672.8 million), applying our policy of distributing around 50 per cent of adjusted attributable earnings.
Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reﬂects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of proﬁt from operations, net ﬁnance costs, proﬁt before tax, attributable earnings, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where
applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement beneﬁts net ﬁnancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments
in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects. Reconciliations between
adjusted and reported proﬁt from operations, adjusted and reported ﬁnance costs, adjusted and reported taxation, and adjusted and reported earnings per share are
included in the notes to the full accounts available via our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com. The adjusted measures in this performance summary are not deﬁned 
terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  
Chairman’s Statement
In what was a year of signiﬁcant achievement
for Imperial Tobacco we delivered another
good operational and ﬁnancial performance.
Earnings and Dividends
Our adjusted earnings per share have
risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 50.6 pence 
(2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted for the bonus
element of the rights issue in June 2008),
primarily impacted by restructuring costs,
fair value movements on derivatives,
amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
one-off acquisition accounting adjustments,
partially offset by brand divestment gains. 
Adjusted attributable earnings grew by
26 per cent to a little under £1.2 billion. 
In line with our policy, the Board is proposing
to pay out half of this as ordinary dividends.
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend of
42.2 pence per share, bringing the total for
the year to 63.1 pence (2007: 60.4 pence,
adjusted for the bonus element of the rights
issue in June 2008).
1
Altadis
On 25 January 2008 we completed the
acquisition of Altadis, signiﬁcantly enhancing
our business proﬁle. We have a strong track
record in acquisitions and a reputation for
integrating new businesses efﬁciently. 
The enlarged Group has around 40,000
employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an
extended geographic reach and a more
versatile brand and product portfolio,
including international strength in cigarette
and world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco,
cigars and rolling papers. We now also
have a leading logistics platform in Europe. 
As part of the integration process
we announced a number of European
restructuring projects in June which will
enable us to strengthen our competitive
position and deliver the previously announced
annual operating efﬁciencies of approximately
€300 million by the end of the ﬁnancial
year ending 30 September 2010, rising to
approximately €400 million by the end of the
ﬁnancial year ending 30 September 2012. 
The estimated one-off cash cost of achieving
these efﬁciencies is approximately €600 million.
Regrettably, these projects are impacting our
workforce and we are committed to providing 
a comprehensive range of support measures
to assist affected employees. 
Driving Operational Performance
Altadis and integration have been key
priorities during the year but we have also
remained focused on driving the operational
performance of the enlarged business, which
included an eight month contribution from
Altadis and the ﬁrst full year contribution 
from Commonwealth Brands.
Whilst building on our strong proﬁt base 
in mature markets we pursue growth in
emerging markets and this year we made
excellent progress in Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East.
The USA is another important growth market
and one where our cigarette and ﬁne cut
tobacco shares further increased in the year. 
These positive operational developments are
underpinned by our ongoing focus on reducing
costs and effectively managing our cash. 
The Rights Issue
From the outset, we said that the acquisition
of Altadis would be part funded by a 
rights issue. 
At our half-yearly results in May we
announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a share
price of 1475 pence per share to raise 
£4.9 billion. The rights issue was sized at 
the minimum level required to maintain our
investment grade credit rating, to which we
remain committed. 
Given the uncertainties affecting the capital
markets this year, it was gratifying to see that
the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent and the
remainder of the shares were successfully
sold in the market.
Following the success of the rights issue
and two bond issues in September, we are
comfortable with our current ﬁnancing position.
Corporate Governance
As a major international company we seek to
act in a fair and responsible manner towards
all stakeholders. 
It is the Board’s duty to review and approve
our Company’s policies in this regard. 
We have in place processes which enable 
us to meet the high standards of conduct
expected of our Company. 
In September, we delisted from the New York
Stock Exchange as part of our ongoing
programme of business simpliﬁcation. 
This will not compromise the integrity of
our Corporate Governance and internal
control procedures and we will continue
to communicate regularly with our investors
based in the USA. 
Board Changes
David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director and
Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman, retired
during the year and I would like to express
my sincere thanks to them for their
contribution to the Company. 
There have been several new additions to 
the Imperial Tobacco Board during the year. 
We were delighted to welcome 
Jean-Dominique Comolli, former Chairman 
of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive
Deputy Chairman. We also welcomed 
Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both former
board members of Altadis, to our Board as 
Non-Executive Directors. 
All have a tremendous wealth of international
business experience and their knowledge 
of the tobacco industry will be invaluable in
ensuring that we maximise the signiﬁcant
opportunities the enlarged Group offers.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our
employees for their contribution to another
successful year. Imperial Tobacco and Altadis
employees have developed strong working
relationships and their combined skills and
expertise will enable us to create further
sustainable value for our shareholders. 
The turbulent economic conditions are
unlikely to change in the short term but 
we are resilient and highly cash generative.
With our enhanced geographic and brand
proﬁle, and strong business fundamentals,
we can look to the future with conﬁdence.
Iain Napier
Chairman
The past year has again demonstrated the success of our
strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
Iain Napier, Chairman
Delivering value 
across the Group
Our Business Today
33
Cigarette factories
14
Other tobacco 
product factories
8
Tobacco processing
factories
3
Rolling papers 
and tubes factories
With established operations
across the Southern European
countries of Spain, France, Italy
and Portugal, and recent entry
into Central Europe with the
opening of our operations in
Poland, we are one of the largest
logistics companies in Europe.
Our manufacturing sites
Logistics Tobacco
� Cigarette factories
� Other tobacco product factories
� Tobacco processing factories
� Rolling papers and tubes factories
Our brands
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
1
If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid
on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 23 January 2009.
We continue to build on our long track record
of creating sustainable shareholder value. We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets 
and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially 
strengthened our business. Gareth Davis, Chief Executive
Significant potential 
for further growth
enhanced geographic footprint, we have
been managing the consultation process
related to our European integration projects. 
These projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support functions
in a number of markets and will improve our
competitiveness by reducing over-capacity
and improving efﬁciencies. 
We concluded the European consultation
process in September and have made very
good progress on the national consultations
and implementation of our projects in 
many markets.
We have completed the mergers of the
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales teams
in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria, Belgium
and Italy, and closed our cigar and ﬁne cut
tobacco factory in Slovakia.
The consultation process in France and
the UK has been completed, enabling us
to begin implementing our projects in these
markets in early 2009, while in Spain and
Germany the consultations are ongoing. 
We continue to offer comprehensive 
support to all employees affected by 
our integration projects.
Regulation
We continue to effectively manage the
increasing levels of regulation affecting
our industry. We support sound and
proportionate regulation that respects
adult freedom of choice and recognises
that tobacco products are enjoyed by
millions of people worldwide. We have a
long history of co-operation with authorities 
in the markets in which we operate and
remain committed to continuing to work
constructively with individual governments
and other regulatory bodies.
Corporate Responsibility
Our ongoing commitment to manage our
business responsibly is fundamental to our
long-term success. As a global tobacco
company we recognise the importance of
manufacturing, marketing and selling our
products responsibly. 
Over the years we have taken an increasingly
strategic approach to promoting responsible
behaviour through deﬁned governance
structures, group principles and policies. 
Chief Executive’s Review
We have also established robust risk
management procedures, progressed 
our non-ﬁnancial performance reporting
processes and further developed our 
Five-for-Five corporate responsibility initiative
which was launched last year. 
Our People 
The development of our employees is critical
if we are to continue delivering sustainable
shareholder value and I am proud of the
success of the leadership programmes we
have in place. We seek to support and
develop people in all functions and at all
levels, from senior managers to employees
who are at an early stage of their career. 
Our programmes are run on an international
basis and participants are often tasked with
managing business projects on behalf of the
Chief Executive’s Committee. I have been
extremely impressed with the results, which
have highlighted the signiﬁcant and growing
talent pool we have within the business.
Outlook
The integration of Altadis will remain a priority
going forward. We have an excellent track
record of integrating new businesses into the
Group and remain on course to successfully
deliver our targeted cost savings. 
Leveraging our enhanced operating platform
and stronger, more diversiﬁed brand and
product portfolio will be key to driving future
growth and I am conﬁdent that we will realise
the potential of the many opportunities that
lie ahead. 
Combined with our ongoing focus on cost
and effectively managing our cash, we
remain well placed to continue to create
sustainable value for our shareholders.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
Imperial Tobacco is a leading international
tobacco company which manufactures,
markets, distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of cigarettes, 
tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Get more online at: www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
Registered in England and 
Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0871 384 2037
+44 (0)121 415 7009
0871 384 2255 text phone
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Performance Summary 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
Performance Overview
The acquisition of Altadis has been the
highlight of an eventful year for Imperial
Tobacco. Our overall cigarette volumes
were up 46 per cent to 292 billion cigarettes,
including contributions from Altadis and
Commonwealth Brands.
Our cigarette portfolio is complemented by
our world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco and
cigars. Overall, ﬁne cut tobacco volumes
were up to 25,150 tonnes, while cigar
volumes were 2.5 billion.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced
geographic proﬁle and multi-product portfolio
and during the year we increased our cigarette
and ﬁne cut tobacco shares and volumes
across many territories. 
Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff
and Gauloises Blondes, performed very well,
complemented by further growth from a
number of regional brands including Gitanes
and JPS.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth by
developing our brands and products through
investment and innovation, supported by
excellent trade marketing skills and strong
sales forces. 
Our versatile portfolio is characterised by
great brands and products across all price
segments, which provides considerable
growth opportunities given the large and
diverse number of markets in which
we operate.
Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of
premium brands, we also have particular
strength in the value segment enabling us
to capitalise on consumer downtrading in
mature markets, a trend that is likely to
continue in the current economic climate.
Our continued success in the contrasting
markets of the USA, Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East was particularly pleasing
and demonstrates our ability to successfully
develop our business in both mature and
emerging markets.
Integration
The integration of Imperial Tobacco and
Altadis has been a key focus during the year. 
Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities
presented by our combined portfolio and  We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets 
and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially 
strengthened our business. Gareth Davis, Chief Executive
Significant potential 
for further growth
enhanced geographic footprint, we have
been managing the consultation process
related to our European integration projects. 
These projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support functions
in a number of markets and will improve our
competitiveness by reducing over-capacity
and improving efﬁciencies. 
We concluded the European consultation
process in September and have made very
good progress on the national consultations
and implementation of our projects in 
many markets.
We have completed the mergers of the
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales teams
in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria, Belgium
and Italy, and closed our cigar and ﬁne cut
tobacco factory in Slovakia.
The consultation process in France and
the UK has been completed, enabling us
to begin implementing our projects in these
markets in early 2009, while in Spain and
Germany the consultations are ongoing. 
We continue to offer comprehensive 
support to all employees affected by 
our integration projects.
Regulation
We continue to effectively manage the
increasing levels of regulation affecting
our industry. We support sound and
proportionate regulation that respects
adult freedom of choice and recognises
that tobacco products are enjoyed by
millions of people worldwide. We have a
long history of co-operation with authorities 
in the markets in which we operate and
remain committed to continuing to work
constructively with individual governments
and other regulatory bodies.
Corporate Responsibility
Our ongoing commitment to manage our
business responsibly is fundamental to our
long-term success. As a global tobacco
company we recognise the importance of
manufacturing, marketing and selling our
products responsibly. 
Over the years we have taken an increasingly
strategic approach to promoting responsible
behaviour through deﬁned governance
structures, group principles and policies. 
Chief Executive’s Review
We have also established robust risk
management procedures, progressed 
our non-ﬁnancial performance reporting
processes and further developed our 
Five-for-Five corporate responsibility initiative
which was launched last year. 
Our People 
The development of our employees is critical
if we are to continue delivering sustainable
shareholder value and I am proud of the
success of the leadership programmes we
have in place. We seek to support and
develop people in all functions and at all
levels, from senior managers to employees
who are at an early stage of their career. 
Our programmes are run on an international
basis and participants are often tasked with
managing business projects on behalf of the
Chief Executive’s Committee. I have been
extremely impressed with the results, which
have highlighted the signiﬁcant and growing
talent pool we have within the business.
Outlook
The integration of Altadis will remain a priority
going forward. We have an excellent track
record of integrating new businesses into the
Group and remain on course to successfully
deliver our targeted cost savings. 
Leveraging our enhanced operating platform
and stronger, more diversiﬁed brand and
product portfolio will be key to driving future
growth and I am conﬁdent that we will realise
the potential of the many opportunities that
lie ahead. 
Combined with our ongoing focus on cost
and effectively managing our cash, we
remain well placed to continue to create
sustainable value for our shareholders.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
Imperial Tobacco is a leading international
tobacco company which manufactures,
markets, distributes and sells a
comprehensive range of cigarettes, 
tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
Get more online at: www.imperial-tobacco.com
1. View the 2008 Annual Report online
2. Access the latest shareholder information
3. View archive information
4. Access shareholder services
5. Tell us what you think
Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
Registered in England and 
Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0871 384 2037
+44 (0)121 415 7009
0871 384 2255 text phone
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Performance Summary 2008
Driving growth,
delivering value
Performance Overview
The acquisition of Altadis has been the
highlight of an eventful year for Imperial
Tobacco. Our overall cigarette volumes
were up 46 per cent to 292 billion cigarettes,
including contributions from Altadis and
Commonwealth Brands.
Our cigarette portfolio is complemented by
our world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco and
cigars. Overall, ﬁne cut tobacco volumes
were up to 25,150 tonnes, while cigar
volumes were 2.5 billion.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced
geographic proﬁle and multi-product portfolio
and during the year we increased our cigarette
and ﬁne cut tobacco shares and volumes
across many territories. 
Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff
and Gauloises Blondes, performed very well,
complemented by further growth from a
number of regional brands including Gitanes
and JPS.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth by
developing our brands and products through
investment and innovation, supported by
excellent trade marketing skills and strong
sales forces. 
Our versatile portfolio is characterised by
great brands and products across all price
segments, which provides considerable
growth opportunities given the large and
diverse number of markets in which
we operate.
Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of
premium brands, we also have particular
strength in the value segment enabling us
to capitalise on consumer downtrading in
mature markets, a trend that is likely to
continue in the current economic climate.
Our continued success in the contrasting
markets of the USA, Eastern Europe, Africa
and the Middle East was particularly pleasing
and demonstrates our ability to successfully
develop our business in both mature and
emerging markets.
Integration
The integration of Imperial Tobacco and
Altadis has been a key focus during the year. 
Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities
presented by our combined portfolio and 
