 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
p l
i t t p a
l
i i ent e
 This document is printed by Park Communications.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® Company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42; a paper sourced from well managed, 
sustainable, FSC certified forests, and bleached using a chlorine free process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.imperial-tobacco.com
A
Accounting Policies  82, 126
Acquisitions  123
Adjusted Earnings Per Share 11
Adjusted Measures 85
Africa  26
American Depositary Receipts/Shares  132
Americas 25
Analysis of Net Debt 122
Annual General Meeting  55, 132
Asia-Pacific 26
Audit Committee  52
Auditors
Remuneration  55, 90
Report  76, 124
Australia  25
Austria 23
B
Balance Sheet (Consolidated)  79
Balance Sheet (Parent)  125
Belgium  21
Board Committees  46
Board of Directors 44
Borrowings and Derivative 
Financial Instruments 99
Brand Equity 14
Business Model 3
Business Overview 2 
C
Cash and Cash Equivalents  99
Cash Conversion Rate 13
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  122
Cash Flow Statement  81
Cash Utilisation 12
Chairman’s Introduction 6
Chairman’s Introduction to Governance 43
Charitable and Political Donations 56
Chief Executive’s Review  8
Commitments  121
Consumer Centric 15
Contents  1
Corporate Governance Report  46
Corporate Responsibility Review 33
Anti-illicit Trade 35
Assurance 35
Carbon Disclosure Project 39
Code of Conduct 38
Climate Change 38
Diversity and Equality 37
Enabling our People 37
Environmental Performance 39
Ingredients Reporting 36
Marketing Standards 36
Partnership Investment 40
Product Quality 36
Responsibility Strategy 34
Social Assessment and 
Human Rights 38
Supply Chain 40
Tobacco and Health 36
Tobacco Regulation 35
Workplace Health and Safety 37
Youth Smoking Prevention 36
Cost Optimisation 12
Creditor Payment Policy  56
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 87
Customer Engagement 14
Czech Republic 21
D
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 114
Development Executive  50
Directors 
Biographies 45
Interests in Shares  64
Pensions 72
Remuneration  60
Responsibilities  59
Directors and Employees  91
Disclosure Committee 54
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)  132
Dividends  32, 56, 93
E
Earnings Per Share  11, 30, 93
Employees  56, 91
EU 20
Excise Duty 17
Execution Excellence 15
F
Financial Calendar  132
Financial Highlights  5
Financial Review 30
Financial Statements  75
France  21
Future Foundations 15
G
Germany  21
Governance 42
Greece  21
Group Performance 30
H
Habanos 26
Hungary 21
I
Illicit Trade 17
Income Statement 77
Innovation 14
Introduction 1
Intangible Assets 94
Inventories  98
Italy 21
J
Joint Ventures 97
K
Key Assets 14
Key Enablers 15
Key Performance Indicators  11
L
Laos  26
Legal Proceedings  87, 122
Litigation  19, 58
Logistics 28
M
Market Footprint 14
Middle East 26
Morocco 25
N
Net Finance Costs 32, 91
Netherlands  21
New Zealand 26
Nominations Committee  51
Non-EU 24
Non-Financial Performance Indicators 41
Notes to the Financial Statements 88
Notes to the Financial Statements 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 126
O
Office of Fair Trading 58, 122
Operating Executive 50
Operating Review 20
P
Pensions 72
People 14
Poland  21
Portfolio Management 14
Portugal 23
Pricing 14
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 16
Principal Undertakings 129
Profit Before Taxation 90
Property, Plant and Equipment 96
Provisions  118
R
Reconciliation of Cash Flow to 
Movement in Net Debt 123
Registrars  131
Regulation 18
Remuneration Committee  60
Remuneration Report  60
Rest of EU 23 
Rest of the World  26 
Restructuring Costs 90
Retirement Benefit Schemes 84, 115
Revenue Performance 30
Russia  25
S
Sales Growth 12
Sales Growth Drivers 14
Saudi Arabia 25
Segment Information  88
Share Capital  56, 118
Shares 121
Share Schemes 119
Shareholder Information  131
Spain  21 
Statement of Changes in Equity  80
Statement of Comprehensive Income 78
Stick Equivalent Volumes 13
Strategy  4, 11
T
Taiwan  25
Taxation  92
Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin 13
Tobacco Net Revenue 13
Total Shareholder Return  7, 11
Total Tobacco 2, 14
Trade and Other Payables 99
Trade and Other Receivables 98
Treasury Shares 121
Turkey  25
U
Ukraine  25
United Kingdom  21 
United States of America 25
W
World Tobacco Market Overview 10
Index
Strategy
We explain our sales growth 
strategy in more detail and our 
areas of focus that will drive our 
future growth. 
Risk
We explain how we manage 
and mitigate the risks facing 
our business.
Performance
We made gains in EU and 
Non-EU markets with an excellent 
performance in emerging markets.
Responsibility
Acting responsibly is simply part 
of how we do business.
Governance
Our embedded high standards 
of corporate governance 
and our strong management 
team support our sales 
growth strategy.
In this report 1
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials
Contents
Overview
1 Introduction
3 How we create value for our shareholders
5 Financial Highlights
6 Chairman’s Introduction
Directors’ Report: Strategy
8 Chief Executive’s Review
11 Our Strategy
Directors’ Report: Risk
16 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report: Performance
20 Operating Review
30 Financial Review
33 Corporate Responsibility Review
41 Non-Financial Performance Indicators
Directors’ Report: Governance
43 Chairman’s Introduction
44 Board of Directors
46 Corporate Governance Report
60 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements and Notes
76   Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
77 Consolidated Income Statement
78   Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
79 Consolidated Balance Sheet
80  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
81 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
82 Accounting Policies
87  Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
88 Notes to the Group Financial Statements
124  Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
125  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
126  Notes to the Financial Statements of  
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Supplementary Information
129 Principal Undertakings
131 Shareholder Information
IBC Index
Introduction 2
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials
Introduction continued
Through our total tobacco portfolio  
we provide consumers with the most 
comprehensive range of brands  
and products in the world including 
cigarettes, fine cut tobacco, cigars  
and snus.
The strength and breadth of our  
portfolio provides us with significant 
future sales growth opportunities.  
We are focused on realising this 
potential, by using our portfolio to  
reach more consumers in more markets 
on more consumption occasions.
World No.1 in
ﬁne cut tobacco
International strength
in cigarettes
papers and tubes
World No.1 in
World No.1 in cigars
Total
Tobacco
Who we are and what we do
We are a leading international tobacco company with a strong track record of 
creating value for our shareholders by driving sustainable sales, optimising costs 
and effectively utilising the cash we generate.
What makes us different
We drive sales growth through our unique total tobacco portfolio with brands and 
products across the tobacco category. 3
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials Overview
How we create value for our shareholders 
Our Business Model
How our Business Model works
Maximising shareholder returns is about 
growing our sales, maximising our cash 
flow and then successfully redeploying 
that cash. 
Our strategy is to sustainably grow sales 
by focusing on our sales growth drivers 
and we support these through our focus 
on our consumers, execution excellence 
and building strong future foundations.
Sustainable sales growth combined with 
our ongoing efficient management of 
operations generate high operating margins. 
These high margin profits combined 
with our management of working capital 
generate our substantial cash flows. We 
then reinvest our cash to grow sales or 
make acquisitions that meet our strategic 
criteria, or we return our cash to our 
shareholders to maximise their returns. 
Sales
Maximising 
Shareholder 
Returns
Reinvest
High 
Margin
Profits
Strong 
Cash Flow 4
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials
Introduction continued
How we create value for our shareholders 
Our Strategy
Our Strategy
 
Read more about 
our strategy on 
pages 11 – 15.
Delivering sustainable  
shareholder returns
Cost 
Optimisation
Sales 
Growth
Consumer 
Centric
Execution 
Excellence
Future 
Foundations
Key Enablers
Cash 
Utilisation
Sales Growth Drivers
Portfolio 
Management
Innovation
Customer 
Engagement
Pricing
Our Key Assets
Market  
Footprint
Total 
Tobacco
Brand 
Equity
People 5
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials Overview
2011 Financial Highlights
Highlights – adjusted basis
1
2011 Change
Change at 
Constant 
Currency
3
2010
Stick equivalents
2
 
KPI
343.4bn -1.5% 348.5bn
Tobacco net revenue
4
 
KPI
£6,913m +1.8% +2.0% £6,793m
Logistics distribution fees £932m -0.4% -0.3% £936m
Tobacco adjusted operating profit £2,924m +1.2% +1.3% £2,889m
Logistics adjusted operating profit £183m +4.0% +4.0% £176m
Total adjusted operating profit £3,103m +1.2% +1.3% £3,067m
Adjusted earnings per share 
KPI
188.0p +5.1% +5.4% 178.8p
Highlights – reported basis 2011 Change 2010
Revenue £29,223m +3.7% £28,173m
Operating profit £2,640m +4.4% £2,528m
Basic earnings per share 177.3p +19.4% 148.5p
Dividend per share 95.1p +12.8% 84.3p
1 Management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide a useful comparison 
of business performance and reflect the way in which the business is controlled. 
Definitions are included in our accounting policies within the notes to the financial 
statements. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported measures are also 
included in the relevant notes.
2 Stick equivalents reflects our combined cigarette and fine cut tobacco volumes.
3 To aid understanding of our performance, change at constant currency removes 
the effects of exchange rate movements on the translation of the results of our 
overseas operations. References in this document to percentage growth and 
increases or decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis 
unless stated otherwise.
4 The definition of net revenue has been changed to exclude revenue from the sale of 
peripheral and non-tobacco related products, with comparatives restated accordingly.
How we have performed
Highlights
Delivering Growth Through Total Tobacco Portfolio
 – EU and Non-EU market gains with excellent performance 
in emerging markets 
 – Overall volumes of key strategic brands up 4 per cent 
 – Fine cut tobacco volumes up 4 per cent 
 – Non-EU luxury Cuban cigar volumes up 4 per cent 
 – Snus volumes up 30 per cent 
Ongoing Cost Optimisation
 – Tobacco operating margin above 42 per cent 
 – Ongoing efficiency focus; productivity up by 3 per cent 
Maximising Cash Returns
 – Dividend per share up 13 per cent to 95.1 pence, 
increasing our payout ratio to 50.6 per cent 
 – Strong cash conversion rate of 88 per cent 
 – £181 million share buyback completed in 2011
Key performance indicators
 
Read more about 
our KPIs on  
pages 11 – 13. 6
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials
Chairman’s  
Introduction
We made good progress this year driving growth 
through our total tobacco portfolio in many markets, 
while effectively managing our costs and cash flows, 
all of which are central to our success. 
Our performance further demonstrates our growth 
potential although our overall results this year were 
held back by the exceptional circumstances in Spain 
and the impact of trade buying patterns in the UK. 
We see considerable opportunities ahead and 
continue to focus on creating long-term sustainable 
value for our shareholders.
Results and Dividends
1 
We grew our tobacco net revenues by 2.0 per cent  
and our total adjusted operating profits were up by  
1.3 per cent at £3.1 billion. We delivered 5.4 per cent 
growth in adjusted earnings per share to 188.0 pence. 
Basic earnings per share were 177.3 pence (2010:  
148.5 pence). 
We have increased our dividend payout ratio to  
50.6 per cent of adjusted earnings per share and the 
Board recommends a final dividend of 67.0 pence  
per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 
95.1 pence per share, up by 12.8 per cent. This will  
be paid on 17 February 2012 with an ex dividend date 
of 18 January 2012.
2011 Performance Overview and Achievements
Sustainable Sales Growth: We made gains in  
the EU and delivered an excellent performance in 
emerging markets outside the EU. Our key strategic 
brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS 
had another strong year with overall volumes up  
4 per cent
2
. 
We also delivered excellent growth in fine cut tobacco 
and snus and grew volumes of both our mass market 
and premium cigars.
Cost Optimisation: Strong financial discipline is 
embedded across our business and we continue to 
focus on efficiencies and made productivity gains of  
3 per cent. Tobacco operating margins were again 
over 42 per cent due to price increases and ongoing 
cost optimisation. 
Cash Utilisation: We use our substantial cash flows 
to reward our shareholders and to reinvest in growing 
our sales. We delivered a strong dividend increase  
this year and we intend to continue steadily increasing 
dividends per share ahead of the growth in adjusted 
earnings per share. 
At our half year results in May we announced a share 
buyback programme of £500 million on an annualised 
basis and spent £181 million acquiring 8.7 million 
shares during the balance of the financial year.
Corporate Governance and  
Corporate Responsibility
Good governance and the responsible way we 
manage our business are fundamental to our 
approach and underpin our long-term sustainability. 
Our responsible approach is reflected in external 
benchmarks: both our performance in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index and by another Gold award rating 
from the UK’s Business in the Community Corporate 
Responsibility Index.
We have again incorporated our corporate 
responsibility reporting into our annual report on  
pages 33 to 41 and are one of the few FTSE 100 
companies to assure our responsibility performance  
to the AA1000 stakeholder engagement standard.
Board Changes
In October 2011, Malcolm Wyman was appointed  
as a Non-Executive Director and we announced  
that Pierre Jungels will retire as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive at the conclusion of our 2012 Annual 
General Meeting. In addition, Graham Blashill,  
Group Sales and Marketing Director, retired from  
the Board following our Annual General Meeting in 
February 2011. 
I would like to welcome Malcolm to the Board and  
thank Pierre and Graham for their contribution to  
our success and wish them both well for the future.
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 Volume changes on a stick equivalent basis. 7
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials Overview
People
Our employees are central to our success and I would 
like to thank them for their dedication and hard work. 
Their consistent focus on delivering results gives me 
confidence that we will realise our growth potential. 
In Conclusion 
We are focused on delivering quality earnings growth 
and I believe we are well positioned to build on our 
achievements. 
Our focus on sales, underpinned by our disciplined 
approach to cost and cash management will enable  
us to continue to create long-term sustainable value 
for our shareholders.
Iain Napier
Chairman
“
 We see considerable opportunities 
ahead and continue to focus on 
creating sustainable value for 
our shareholders.
”
Iain Napier, Chairman
In 2011, we outperformed the FTSE 100 
by 25 per cent. With dividends 
reinvested, £100 invested in Imperial 
Tobacco five years ago would now be 
worth £172 compared to just £106 if 
invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
50
75
100
125
150
Total Shareholder Return
2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2010 
FTSE 100
Imperial Tobacco
Strategy
 
Read more on  
our strategy on 
pages 11 – 15.
Corporate Responsibility
 
Read more on  
our Corporate 
Responsibility 
performance on 
pages 33 – 41.
Governance
 
Read more on  
how we manage  
our business on 
pages 42 – 74.
KPI 8
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Overview
Our strategy for delivering quality earnings growth  
and creating long-term value for our shareholders 
continues to deliver results.
We have achieved good sales growth across our 
geographic footprint, with particularly strong gains  
in emerging markets. 
I am pleased with our sales performance and, as 
we’ve continued to build momentum, I have been 
focusing on how we can accelerate sales growth;  
how we can do things differently to fully realise the 
potential we have. 
Key to achieving this is our focus on our four sales 
growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, 
pricing and customer engagement, all of which we 
intend to excel at going forward.
Our work on our key enablers supports the  
delivery of our sales goals. Our priorities here are to 
continue developing consumer insights, aligning our 
operations behind our sales agenda and shaping our 
external environment.
2011 Results Highlights
1
I am pleased that we have again grown overall 
volumes of our key cigarette brands, fine cut tobacco, 
mass market and luxury Cuban cigars and snus.
Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 1.5 per cent, 
a good result given the exceptional circumstances in 
Spain and trade buying patterns in the UK. Adjusting 
these factors, our stick equivalent volumes were flat, 
whilst tobacco net revenues were up 4.5 per cent. 
Key Strategic Brand Highlights
2
Within our key strategic brands we grew volumes of 
Davidoff by 6 per cent with excellent gains in Russia, 
Ukraine, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia. 
Gauloises Blondes volumes were up by 2 per cent 
reflecting a very strong performance in North Africa, 
notably Algeria and Morocco. However the overall 
brand performance was held back by sanction 
compliance in the Middle East.
West performed well in the emerging markets of 
Eastern Europe and Asia, but overall volumes were 
down 2 per cent impacted by market weakness in 
Poland and Turkey.
We delivered another very good performance  
with JPS increasing volumes by 12 per cent, with 
particular success in the UK, Australia, Portugal  
and New Zealand. 
EU Highlights 
We have leading positions in cigarettes and fine cut 
tobacco in many markets in the EU and have made 
good progress with our value portfolio across the 
region. Our value cigarette brands have grown share  
in the majority of EU markets and we also increased 
volumes of fine cut tobacco by 4 per cent.
In the UK and Germany, JPS benefited from value 
seeking consumers both in cigarettes and in fine cut 
tobacco. While Spain has been difficult, we have 
actively managed our portfolio to improve and protect 
our market leadership position. This has included 
launching a number of innovative cigarette line 
extensions and value offerings in fine cut tobacco and 
cigars. Elsewhere in the EU cigarette market shares 
were up in Austria, Czech Republic and Portugal. 
We have had particular success in developing popular 
cigarette brands into fine cut tobacco brands and 
achieved exceptional growth from Route 66, with 
volumes up by 49 per cent. In addition, our fine  
cut tobacco shares have grown in Poland, Spain  
and Belgium.
Non-EU Highlights
Outside the EU we delivered an excellent performance 
in emerging markets where we are particularly  
focused on developing our strategic cigarette brands. 
We made very strong gains in fast-growing segments 
such as superslims and kingsize superslims. 
“ 
We are building on our sales 
momentum driving growth 
through our unique total 
tobacco portfolio.
”
Alison Cooper, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s 
Review
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 Volume changes on stick equivalent basis. 9
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Realising  
our potential
Reflecting our total tobacco approach we also made 
further good progress with luxury Cuban cigars and 
snus. We grew volumes of luxury Cuban cigars by  
4 per cent in markets outside the EU with further 
success in Russia, Brazil and China. In Scandinavia, 
we have continued to build our snus volumes which 
were up by 30 per cent. 
These portfolio successes have resulted in excellent 
profit increases. We grew our profits in Eastern  
Europe by 21 per cent, in Africa and the Middle East 
by 8 per cent and in Asia-Pacific by 27 per cent.
In the USA, the integration of our cigarette and mass 
market cigar sales forces is progressing well and  
we delivered good revenue growth in our premium 
cigar portfolio. 
Senior Management Appointments
We made two appointments to our Operating 
Executive to further drive our sustainable sales  
growth agenda. Roberto Funari was appointed Group 
Marketing Director in November 2010, joining us from 
Reckitt Benckiser where he was Global Category 
Officer, and Arthur van Benthem, formerly Customer 
Management Director of the Metro Group, was 
appointed Group Sales Director in March 2011. 
Our People
Our people make our strategy happen; they are 
passionate about what they do. Their response and 
support for our enhanced sales growth agenda gives 
me great confidence for the future. 
Our recent global management engagement survey 
results were ahead of other similar FMCG companies 
and have given us a real insight into how we can be 
even better at what we do. The survey results have 
helped to develop a number of engagement initiatives. 
We are further developing our people capabilities 
focusing on the values, behaviours, knowledge and 
skills to further realise our sales aspirations.
Outlook
These pleasing results highlight the growth momentum 
in the business and provide a strong platform for  
future success.
Our strategic focus on delivering quality earnings 
growth and the continued commitment of our people 
will enable us to realise our growth potential.
Our commitment to delivering sales excellence 
combined with our expertise in cost and cash 
management will enable us to continue maximising 
returns to our shareholders.
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
For more information visit: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 10
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Chief Executive’s Review continued
World Tobacco Market Overview
The global tobacco market remains relatively stable, 
with around a third of the world’s adult population 
choosing to smoke.
Cigarettes are by far the most popular tobacco 
product, with approximately six trillion consumed 
every year which is equivalent to 85 per cent of  
total tobacco volumes worldwide. The remaining  
15 per cent is largely made up of fine cut tobacco, 
cigars and smokeless tobacco products. 
The largest cigarette market in the world is China, 
accounting for around 40 per cent of global 
consumption. Outside of China, the largest  
cigarette markets are Russia and the USA.
In mature markets, such as those in the EU, overall 
cigarette consumption is declining. The general 
stability of the world markets is as a result of growth 
in emerging markets outside the EU, where 
consumption is increasing as adult populations 
continue to rise. 
Regrettably illicit trade is a significant problem in 
many markets, often fuelled by excessive regulation 
and rising excise duties. We continue to step  
up our anti-illicit trade activities, partnering with 
governments and law enforcement agencies to 
disrupt the supply and sale of illegal tobacco.
The combination of our unique total tobacco  
portfolio and balanced geographic footprint  
provides a strong platform for growth in both  
EU and non-EU countries.
Total tobacco means we have strength in all major 
tobacco categories at key price points, which gives 
us more flexibility to respond to changing consumer 
dynamics and build sales in growth segments.
We see significant growth opportunities for our 
business in emerging markets, where we are 
particularly focused on further developing sales  
of our global strategic cigarette brands and world 
leading luxury cigars. In EU markets, our versatile 
portfolio remains well placed to continue capitalising 
on the growth in value cigarettes and fine cut 
tobacco, as consumers increasingly seek value 
brands and products in tough economic conditions.
And although consumers are demanding value they 
also expect quality and innovation, so delivering 
excellence in these areas is an integral part of  
our sales strategy. We are actively developing  
our innovation pipeline to drive growth, ensuring  
that all our portfolio innovations are based on 
consumer preferences. Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
11
Strategy
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our Strategy
Measuring our strategy
The elements of our strategy: sales growth, cost optimisation 
and cash utilisation are measured by a set of key performance 
indicators (KPIs). These are the principal measures we use to 
assess and review our performance and continuous improvement 
in line with our strategy. Certain of these are linked to executive 
remuneration. Our progress in 2011 and over a three year 
period is outlined on pages 11 to 13.
In addition to our KPIs, we review our corporate responsibility 
performance via our non-financial performance indicators. 
Our non-financial performance indicators are on page 41. 
Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results  
are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
KPI
Performance
In 2011 we outperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 25 per cent. 
With dividends reinvested, £100 invested in Imperial Tobacco  
five years ago would now be worth £172, compared to just  
£106 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Definition
Total Shareholder Return is the total investment gain to 
shareholders resulting from the movement in the share price  
and assuming dividends are immediately reinvested in shares.
Performance
We have grown adjusted earnings per share to 188.0 pence,  
up by 5.4 per cent, as a result of driving growth through our 
total tobacco portfolio, while effectively managing our costs  
and cash flows.
Definition
Adjusted earnings per share is adjusted profit after tax 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, 
excluding shares held to satisfy employee share plans and 
shares purchased by the Company and held as Treasury shares.
2011 2010 2009
Adjusted Earnings per Share
188.0p
2010: 178.8p
A Strategy that Delivers
Delivering sustainable  
shareholder returns
Cost 
Optimisation
Sales 
Growth
Consumer 
Centric
Execution 
Excellence
Future 
Foundations
Key Enablers
Cash 
Utilisation
Sales Growth Drivers
Portfolio 
Management
Innovation
Customer 
Engagement
Pricing
Our Key Assets
Market  
Footprint
Total 
Tobacco
Brand 
Equity
People
50
75
100
125
150
Total Shareholder Return
2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2010 
FTSE 100
Imperial Tobacco
KPI Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials 12
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Sales 
Growth
Our Strategy continued
Sales Growth
Sales growth is at the heart of our strategy.
Our commitment to building sales, whilst efficiently managing 
cost and cash, creates value for our shareholders and 
strengthens our long-term sustainability.
The effective use of our assets, combined with our focus on  
key sales growth drivers and enablers, is critical to delivering 
sustainable sales growth.
Our balanced market footprint, total tobacco portfolio, strong 
brand equity and talented people are the key assets of our 
business. We have been successful in using these assets to 
enhance our sales performance and we are now focused on 
accelerating sales to fully realise our potential.
To achieve this we have prioritised four sales growth drivers  
that we want to excel at; these are portfolio management, 
innovation, customer engagement and pricing.
The sales growth drivers are supported by our focus on three 
key enablers: Consumer Centricity, Execution Excellence and 
Future Foundations. 
You can find out more about our assets, sales growth drivers 
and enablers in this section of our report, which explains how 
they contribute to our strategy.
Cost Optimisation
We focus on managing our costs while investing to grow  
our business.
We continue to drive cost efficiencies through business 
simplification and productivity initiatives across the Group.
We have industry leading margins and our focus on improving 
our profitability has been a hallmark of Imperial Tobacco for 
many years.
Over the long term, we have grown our operating  
margins and continually focus on realising further margin  
growth opportunities. 
Cash Utilisation
We use our substantial cash flows to maximise returns for  
our shareholders. 
Our business is highly cash generative due to effective working 
capital controls, disciplined capital expenditure and management 
of tax and interest costs. Over the past five years our average 
cash conversion has been in line with our target range. 
We manage our working capital to ensure that it is efficient for 
our business. Our capital expenditure and investments are 
focused on growing sales.
Our disciplined investments in new machinery and formats are 
supporting our sales growth and have improved quality as well 
as increasing our speed and flexibility to adapt and innovate.
We will continue to make disciplined investments to support  
our sales agenda, including further acquisitions that satisfy our 
strategic criteria and create additional value for shareholders.
In recent years, we have also used our cash to significantly 
reduce our debt which funded several value creating acquisitions.
We grew our dividends per share by 13 per cent in 2011 and 
increased our dividend payout ratio to 50.6 per cent of adjusted 
earnings per share. 
To further enhance our returns to shareholders we began  
a £500 million annualised share buyback programme in  
May 2011. 
Our strategy explained
Cost 
Optimisation
Cash 
Utilisation Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
13
Strategy
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Our tobacco net revenue was up by 2.0 per cent to £6.9 billion 
with good net revenue growth in Germany, Rest of EU and Rest 
of the World regions more than offsetting declines elsewhere. 
Definition
Tobacco net revenue comprises tobacco revenue less duty and 
similar items, excluding peripheral products.
Performance
Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 1.5 per cent reflecting 
the difficult market in Spain and trade buying patterns in the UK. 
Adjusting for these factors, our stick equivalent volumes  
were flat.
Definition
Stick equivalent volumes reflect our combined cigarette and fine 
cut tobacco volumes.
Performance
Our tobacco adjusted operating margin was down by  
0.2 per cent, held back by the difficult market in Spain and  
trade buying patterns in the UK. Adjusting for these factors  
our tobacco adjusted operating margin was up by 0.5 per cent.
Definition
Tobacco adjusted operating margin is the tobacco adjusted 
operating profit divided by tobacco net revenue.
Performance
Our cash conversion was 88 per cent, a particularly strong  
result given our investment in the business to support sales.
Definition
Cash conversion is calculated as cash flow from operations 
before interest and tax payments less net capital expenditure 
relating to property, plant and equipment and software as a 
percentage of adjusted operating profit.
KPI
KPI
KPI
KPI
2011 2010 2009
Tobacco Net Revenue
£6.9bn
2010: 6.8bn
2011 2010 2009
Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin
42.3%
2010: 42.5% 
2011 2010 2009
Stick Equivalent Volumes
343.4bn
2010: 348.5bn
2011 2010 2009
Cash Conversion Rate
88%
2010: 97% Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials 14
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our Strategy continued
Portfolio 
Management
Innovation
Customer 
Engagement
Pricing
Our Key Assets
Our Key Assets
We have great assets to deliver sales growth including a breadth 
of geographies, brands and products and an excellent team of 
people committed to delivering excellent results.
Market Footprint
Our diverse market footprint spans more than 160 countries 
worldwide. There are growth opportunities in all these markets, 
both in and outside the EU, and with our total tobacco  
approach we are very well placed to capitalise on these  
growth opportunities.
Total Tobacco 
Total tobacco gives us a competitive advantage because we  
are able to offer consumers a broader range of brands and 
products. This is particularly important as consumer needs 
continue to change due to a number of factors, including 
regulation and the economic environment.
Our total tobacco portfolio is equally appealing to retailers 
because they know they can rely on us to provide them with 
what consumers want. This is good for their business and 
enables us to build strong relationships with retailers across  
our market footprint.
Brand Equity
Our portfolio includes some of the best known tobacco brands 
in the world, giving us strong brand equity. Complementing our 
global strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes 
and West are important local and regional cigarette brands.  
We are the world leader in fine cut tobacco, papers and tubes, 
and have a growing snus business. In cigar we are proud to 
offer consumers some of the most prestigious brands available, 
including Cohiba and Montecristo.
People
Our people are highly skilled and committed to delivering 
excellent results. They are responsible for putting our sales 
growth strategy into action and have an outstanding track 
record of delivering results. We are building on these strengths 
by further developing the capabilities of our people to make  
sure they have the values, behaviours, knowledge and skills  
to achieve our sales aspirations.
Sales Growth Drivers
We are focused on accelerating sales growth by excelling at  
four sales growth drivers – portfolio management, innovation, 
customer engagement and pricing. Applying our expertise  
in these areas through fewer, bigger and better initiatives is 
crucial to making the most of our assets and realising our 
growth potential. 
Portfolio Management
Our total tobacco portfolio has a comprehensive range of 
brands and products with broad appeal to consumers.  
Through effective portfolio management we are able to  
build sales by meeting the needs of more consumers in  
more markets on more consumption occasions.
Innovation 
Innovation is essential to achieving our sales ambitions. We are 
developing a bigger pipeline of scalable innovations based on 
consumer needs that will expand our portfolio and accelerate 
incremental growth.
Customer Engagement
Through customer engagement we focus on developing even 
stronger connections with our retail partners to support their 
business and to maximise the availability and endorsement  
of our portfolio at the point of sale. 
Pricing
Pricing is a key component of revenue growth. We want  
to maximise these growth opportunities by developing an 
enhanced approach to the way we evaluate pricing by brand,  
by pack size and by sales channel. We also take into account 
excise structures when considering pricing.
Sales Growth Drivers
Our strategy explained
Market  
Footprint
Total 
Tobacco
Brand 
Equity
People Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
15
Strategy
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Key Enablers
Our four sales growth drivers are supported by three key 
enablers: Consumer Centricity, Execution Excellence and  
Future Foundations.
Consumer Centricity 
Consumer Centricity is about ensuring our portfolio continually 
meets the preferences of our consumers. 
To achieve this we are developing deep consumer insights to 
enhance our understanding of how consumers are evolving.  
We then translate this knowledge into portfolio and innovation 
strategies to drive sales.
Execution Excellence
Through Execution Excellence we focus on operation and 
supply alignment, ensuring that our manufacturing and supply 
chain activities effectively support our sales growth strategy. 
Product quality and availability are key priorities, combined with 
a fast and flexible approach which enables us to respond rapidly 
to changing consumer dynamics.
Future Foundations
Building Future Foundations by proactively shaping our external 
environment is critical to achieving sustainable sales growth.
We run our business in a way that is financially, socially and 
environmentally responsible. This approach is integral to  
the success of our growth strategy and our stakeholder 
engagement activities. 
We seek engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders to 
encourage balanced debate and an accountable, transparent 
policy making process. 
We support regulation that is reasonable, proportionate  
and based on evidence and sound science and particularly 
encourage regulators to recognise the relationship between 
regulation, excise and illicit trade.
Rising excise duties combined with excessive regulation 
increases the illicit trade of tobacco products, which is a 
significant and growing problem for governments, consumers 
and the tobacco industry.
We are passionate about highlighting how these issues are 
inextricably linked and welcome every opportunity to discuss  
our views with stakeholders. Our engagement activities are 
supported by the determined efforts we make to combat the 
illicit tobacco trade, working closely with governments and  
law enforcement agencies worldwide to drive down these  
illegal sales.
Consumer 
Centric
Execution 
Excellence
Future 
Foundations
Key Enablers Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials 16
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Operating 
Executive 
and Audit 
Committee
Risk 
Co-ordination 
Committee
Markets, 
factories, 
regions and 
functions
Group Risk Register
Assess            Rank            Mitigate       
Identify          Monitor       
Effective Risk Management
Risk Management Overview
We must manage and mitigate the risks 
that we face in a business as large and 
diverse as Imperial T obacco. In this section, 
we outline the principal risks specific to  
our business and how we manage and 
mitigate these risks. We also highlight the 
formal risk management process that the 
Board has in place.
Not all these factors are within our control 
and the list is not exhaustive. There may  
be other risks and uncertainties that are 
unknown to us and the list may change  
as something that seems immaterial now 
may have greater importance in the future.
We are subject to the same general risks  
as many other businesses; for example, 
changes in general economic conditions, 
including currency and interest rate 
fluctuations, changes in taxation legislation, 
the cost of our raw materials and the 
impact of competition, political stability 
in the countries in which we operate and 
source our raw materials and the impact 
of natural disasters.
Risk Management: How it works at 
Imperial Tobacco
To support the Operating Executive and 
the Audit Committee in managing the 
material risks facing our business we 
have a Risk Co-ordination Committee. 
This ensures a consistent top-down 
approach in how we identify, assess  
and prioritise material risks, as well  
as assessing our existing measures  
to manage and mitigate those risks.  
Our Group Risk Register is maintained  
by the Risk Co-ordination Committee.
This top down approach is complemented 
by a bottom up approach requiring each 
area of the business to formally review  
its principal areas of risk and uncertainty 
and to produce annual risk assessment 
summaries which are compared to the 
Group Risk Register. These ongoing risk 
assessment summaries identify major areas 
of risk, including specific local risks and 
how they are managed and mitigated by 
controls embedded in business processes.
Environmental, Community and 
Ethical Risks 
As well as strategic, operational, financial 
and legal risks, our risk register covers  
a number of environmental, community 
and ethical risks. These are integrated  
into our decision-making and risk 
assessment processes. 
Effective risk 
management
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
17
Strategy
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Principal risks
Illicit Trade 
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales 
Overview
It is estimated that the illicit trade in tobacco accounts for up to 12 per cent of the global tobacco market. It is a significant and 
growing problem for the legitimate tobacco industry and we encourage regulators to recognise the relationship between regulation, 
excise and illicit trade. In countries where economic conditions are difficult as a result of reduced disposable incomes, consumers 
look for cheaper products. Illicit trade can take the form of smuggled genuine tobacco products, counterfeit tobacco products and 
illicit whites (whereby third parties produce cigarettes paying minimal tax, for the primary purpose of smuggling).
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Illicit trade may lead to erosion of demand for legitimate 
tobacco products and damage to our brand integrity, loss of 
potential earnings, and potentially impact on our reputation.
Illegal trading in our products may result in the Group and/
or our employees being subject to investigation or other 
proceedings by customs or other authorities which could 
ultimately result in penalties and fines being imposed on 
the Group. 
We proactively engage on the issue of illicit trade with a wide 
range of stakeholders.
We invest to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products and are 
working with governments, other legitimate tobacco companies 
and international organisations globally.
In 2010, we entered into a 20-year co-operation agreement with 
the EU to collectively tackle the problem of illicit trade. We work 
alongside the European Commission’s Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) 
and the law enforcement agencies of EU Member States.
We have signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) and 
industry agreements with customs authorities in 19 countries to 
tackle illicit trade, based on joint action and shared intelligence. 
We have strong internal business conduct and controls and 
apply stringent controls to our customers. These are set out 
in our Group policies and standards, Code of Conduct and 
product supply compliance processes and procedures.  
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website  
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Excise Duty
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales 
Overview
Tobacco products are subject to excise duty which, in many of the markets in which we operate, represents a substantial 
percentage of the retail price. Taxes are generally increasing in many markets and the rate of increase varies country by country  
and by different tobacco product group.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Substantial increases in excise duty and any unfavourable 
change in the tax treatment of fine cut tobacco, if widely 
adopted, may have an adverse effect on the demand for 
our products and impact our future profit development.
Increasing levels of excise duty are also likely to encourage 
consumers in affected markets to switch from higher priced 
cigarettes to lower-priced cigarettes and fine cut tobacco.
Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal 
cross-border trade from countries with lower levels of duty.
We conduct regular reviews of our product portfolio to ensure 
it is aligned to consumer preferences in the context of the 
excise duty structure in each market. We are particularly 
focused on continuing to develop portfolio strategies that  
will enable us to capitalise on value seeking consumers.
We proactively engage with local tax and customs authorities 
where appropriate. Overview Strategy Performance Risk Governance Financials 18
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Regulation
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost
Overview
The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices worldwide. In many of the countries 
in which we operate, there is a wide range of regulatory restrictions in place, including where tobacco products can be smoked  
and their development, content, manufacture, packaging and labelling, testing, data reporting, sale, distribution, display, marketing 
and advertising.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Imperial Tobacco, along with all other tobacco companies, 
is often excluded from engaging with regulators on the 
development of regulatory proposals.
Any future changes to regulation of the tobacco industry 
could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products 
or increase the costs related to compliance and contribute 
to an increase in illicit trade.
We employ experienced senior Corporate Affairs specialists to 
manage regulatory risk and engage with regulators. 
We develop company positions and toolkits and provide training 
and guidance for our markets to comply with regulation.
We monitor proposals for new measures globally and analyse 
them to identify their potential impact on the Group and 
its products. 
We consult with external experts where necessary to provide 
advice and guidance regarding any impact. 
We work towards consistent engagement on key issues and 
are active members of relevant industry bodies.
We challenge unreasonable and disproportionate regulation.
Market Place 
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost
Overview
The continued growth of our business is underpinned by our position in our key markets, including in the UK and Germany 
and other EU markets. Given our significant position in certain markets, we may be subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in 
these countries.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Any material decline in the performance of our key markets 
may impact on our future profit development and have an 
adverse impact on the Group’s revenue or profits.
Our significant market position in certain countries could result 
in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant 
competition authorities, including the potential for monetary 
fines and negative publicity. 
Our international footprint and total tobacco portfolio  
provides an increasingly balanced exposure to both  
EU and Non-EU markets. 
Our total tobacco portfolio includes international strength in 
cigarettes and world leadership in fine cut tobacco, cigars, 
rolling papers and tubes, which provides us with enhanced 
growth opportunities.
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code  
of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with 
competition laws in the countries in which we operate. 
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees 
detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers 
specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance 
regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws. 
Further details of a market specific regulatory action by a 
competition authority are outlined on page 58. Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
19
Strategy
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financing
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and cash
Overview
We have a significant level of committed debt which is financed primarily in the debt capital markets and in the bank loan markets. 
We expect to rely on these markets to refinance this debt when it matures and rely on the availability of committed funds from our 
bank counterparties to be available when required to be drawn. 
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
We may be unable to refinance our debt, when it matures,  
in the debt capital markets and loan markets. In addition,  
the cost of refinancing the debt, when it matures, may be 
materially higher than the current cost.
We may be subject to reduced availability of financing  
because our bank counterparties are unable to honour their 
commitments when required to deliver funds that they have 
committed to lend when requested.
Although a material part of the Group’s debt is currently at  
fixed levels of interest, the Group is still exposed to movements 
in interest rates which could result in higher cash outflows.
If we are unable to refinance our debt or higher interest costs 
this could impact the Group’s profitability, credit rating and 
ability to operate as a going concern.
In addition, limited ability to borrow additional funds may also 
reduce the flexibility for, or reacting to, competitive and industry 
pressures, or opportunities.
We have a centralised treasury function, which is responsible  
for the management of the financial risks of the Group,  
together with its financing and liquidity requirements.
The Group Treasury Committee (GTC) sets a framework for  
the treasury function to operate within. The framework covers, 
amongst other things, financing, liquidity and counterparty risk.
The GTC oversees the operation of Group Treasury in 
accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions 
and receives regular reports from the Group Treasurer.
Cash flows and financing requirements are regularly forecast  
and developments in debt capital and bank loan markets are 
monitored to ensure we are well placed to meet the future 
financing needs of the Group.
Further details of the Group’s treasury operations and the approach to managing its financing risks can be found in Note 16 to the 
Financial Statements on pages 99 to 113.
Legal Compliance
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost
Overview
We may be exposed to liabilities and reputational risk by failing to comply with any of the laws that are applicable to the Group or 
incur costs and liabilities as a result of tobacco litigation claims.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Failure to comply with local and international laws may result 
in investigations. This may cause damage to our reputation 
and has the potential for financial and criminal penalties for 
both the Group and individuals.
Tobacco-related litigation claims are pending against the 
Group in a number of countries. More claims may be brought 
in the future, including claims for personal injury and the 
recovery of medical costs allegedly incurred in treating 
smokers. If any claim were to be successful, it may result  
in a significant liability for damages and may lead to further 
claims against us. Regardless of the outcome, the costs of 
defending such claims can be substantial and may not be  
fully recoverable. 
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of 
Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with laws  
in the countries in which we operate. 
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the  
Group has been successful and/or resulted in the recovery of 
damages. We employ internal and external lawyers specialising 
in the defence of product liability litigation to provide advice  
and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage 
litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group. 
Further details of market specific tobacco litigation claims 
against Group companies are outlined on pages 58 and 59. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 20
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
EU
Operating Review Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
21
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Our position in EU markets provides us with 
opportunities to further develop our total 
tobacco portfolio and grow our profits.
Key Brands
Market Share Performance
1
Cigarettes
% 2011 2010
Belgium
Czech Republic 14.5 13.9
France 22.6
2
23.62
Germany 26.6 26.9
Greece 11.6 11.6
Hungary 12.3 12.9
3
Italy 23.8 24.5
Netherlands 11.4 12.03
Poland 25.0 25.5
Spain 28.1
2
29.02
United Kingdom 45.1 45.4
Fine Cut Tobacco
% 2011 2010
Belgium 12.7 11.5
3
Czech Republic 64.8 50.9
France 19.7 20.5
3
Germany 20.3 20.5
3
Greece 29.4 33.1
Hungary 38.3 48.6
3
Italy 54.6 62.4
Netherlands 46.2 48.4
3
Poland 60.1 28.6
Spain 36.8 32.3
United Kingdom 51.0 54.5
1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2 Domestic blonde market share.
3 Restated due to a change of source or basis.
EU Performance
Volume
Stick 
equivalents Cigarettes Fine cut tobacco
Billions 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
UK 25.6 27.8 19.2 21.1 6.4 6.7
Germany 32.9 32.8 23.4 23.2 9.5 9.6
Spain 23.5 27.0 20.8 25.3 2.7 1.7
Rest of EU 77.5 78.4 57.8 59.6 19.7 18.8
Total 159.5 166.0 121.2 129.2 38.3 36.8
Net Revenue
£ million 2011
Foreign 
exchange 
2011
Constant 
currency 
2011
Change at 
constant 
currency 
% 2010
UK 869 – 869 -2.8 894
Germany 879 (1) 880 +3.5 850
Spain 497 – 497 -16.0 592
Rest of EU 1,592 (1) 1,593 +4.7 1,521
Total 3,837 (2) 3,839 -0.5 3,857
Adjusted Operating Profit
£ million 2011
Foreign 
exchange 
2011
Constant 
currency 
2011
Change at 
constant 
currency 
% 2010
UK 577 – 577 -6.0 614
Germany 461 – 461 +6.7 432
Spain 200 – 200 -25.4 268
Rest of EU 658 (1) 659 +3.3 638
Total 1,896 (1) 1,897 -2.8 1,952 Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 22
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
EU Markets Overview
Our position in EU markets provides us with 
opportunities to further develop our total tobacco 
portfolio and grow our profits.
The key consumer trend across the EU is one of value 
as consumers have continued to economise and  
look for value brands and products. With the breadth 
and versatility of our portfolio, we are capitalising on 
this trend.
Our cigarette value brands have grown market share  
in the majority of markets in the EU and we have 
continued to build on the success of JPS across  
the region with volumes up by 8 per cent. 
We have also grown our fine cut tobacco business, 
particularly our cigarette branded fine cut tobacco 
products, such as Route 66 which grew volumes by 
49 per cent. 
We have continued to build on the momentum in  
our snus business in Scandinavia, increasing our 
volumes by 30 per cent and we have grown mass 
market cigar volumes by 8 per cent with notable 
success in Spain.
EU Markets Results
1
We delivered a good financial performance in Germany 
and in our Rest of EU region. In Spain, revenues and 
profits were down due to the difficult market and, in 
the UK, a change in trade buying patterns and the 
overall cigarette market decline impacted results. 
UK net revenue was down by 3 per cent to  
£869 million and adjusted operating profit declined  
by 6 per cent to £577 million. 
In Germany, our strong results reflect the positive 
performance of our value brands and our price 
increase in May, with net revenues up by 4 per cent  
to £879 million and adjusted operating profit up by  
7 per cent to £461 million. 
The cigarette market was down significantly in Spain 
and market profitability was impacted by competitor 
activity during the summer. As a result net revenues 
declined by 16 per cent to £497 million with adjusted 
operating profits down by 25 per cent to £200 million.
In our Rest of EU region, we grew net revenues by  
5 per cent to £1,592 million, with profits benefiting 
from price increases in the majority of markets in the 
region, up by 3 per cent to £658 million.
UK
UK Overview: We estimate that UK stick equivalent 
volumes were down 2 per cent to 55.5 billion (2010: 
56.5 billion). The cigarette market was down by  
5 per cent, impacted by a number of significant tax 
increases in the last 18 months including the increase 
in VAT to 20 per cent in January this year. The fine cut 
tobacco market remained buoyant, up by 9 per cent.
UK Performance: In the UK, results were impacted 
by a change in trade buying patterns as a result of  
the timing of a price increase. In cigarette, we have 
again grown our share of the economy sector to  
46 per cent with another positive performance from 
our value brands JPS Silver and Windsor Blue.  
Our overall cigarette share was 45.1 per cent.  
We are strengthening our portfolio with the national  
roll out of GlideTec packs for Lambert and Butler.
In fine cut tobacco, we launched JPS roll your own 
and make your own tobaccos in April, which had 
captured 3.5 per cent of the market by September. 
Gold Leaf and Golden Virginia Yellow have performed 
well although our overall fine cut tobacco market share 
was 51.0 per cent reflecting premium sector decline.
Germany 
Germany Overview: In Germany, the cigarette 
market was up by 1 per cent and fine cut tobacco 
volumes were up 6 per cent, with make your own 
tobacco growth particularly strong. We estimate  
an overall market of 122.3 billion stick equivalents 
(2010: 119.4 billion). 
Germany Performance: Our focus on the JPS  
brand franchise is continuing to support our very  
good performance in Germany. 
In cigarettes, JPS grew to around 10 per cent of the 
market. Both Gauloises Blondes and Davidoff were 
stable, a good result given the consumer value trend  
in the market, although West was down. Our cigarette 
market share was 26.6 per cent. In fine cut tobacco 
we are market leaders and have delivered excellent 
results with Route 66. Our fine cut tobacco market 
share was 20.3 per cent. 
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
Operating Review continued Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
23
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Spain
Spain Overview: Exceptional circumstances have 
made Spain a difficult market this year. The ban on 
smoking in public places that came into effect in January 
and excise duty increases have impacted consumers 
who were already feeling particularly cost conscious  
as a result of the tough economic conditions in Spain. 
In addition, profitability has been impacted by 
competitor activity such that we reduced our prices  
to protect our market leadership position and the  
long-term sustainability of our Spanish business. 
We estimate that the overall market was down to  
69.2 billion cigarette equivalents (2010: 80.0 billion) 
with the cigarette market down by 15 per cent and 
growth in fine cut tobacco of 5 per cent.
Spain Performance: Our focus has remained on 
providing consumers with the value they are looking 
for and we have introduced a number of brand and 
product extensions. We have grown volumes within the 
consumer growth segments of queen size cigarettes, 
cigarette branded fine cut tobaccos and mini cigars.
In cigarette, our successful value line extensions Fortuna 
Redline, and soft packs of JPS Red and Ducados  
Rubio have supported the overall performance of their 
respective brands. In addition, Nobel Style is now the 
leading queen size brand in the market. However, our 
overall domestic blonde share was 28.1 per cent, 
impacted by the competitive market.
In fine cut tobacco, we are market leaders and have 
grown our share significantly up to 36.8 per cent.  
This is due to the success of Ducados Rubio which, 
since launch in June 2010, has grown to 16.3 per cent. 
In mini cigars, we grew Coburn significantly,  
up at 19.3 per cent of the total cigar segment  
(2010: 11.7 per cent).
Rest of EU
Rest of EU Overview: We estimate that the overall 
regional volumes were down by 2 per cent to  
404.8 billion stick equivalents with the cigarette market 
down 3 per cent and fine cut tobacco up 8 per cent. 
Rest of EU Performance: Our total tobacco 
approach is delivering good results in the Rest of EU. 
We grew our cigarette market shares in a number  
of countries including in Austria, Czech Republic, 
Slovakia and Portugal. In France, News has performed 
well despite a significant number of competitor brand 
launches although our domestic blonde market share 
was down to 22.6 per cent.
In fine cut tobacco, we grew our regional volumes  
by 5 per cent and maintained our leading position in 
many markets in the region. We made market share 
gains in a number of our central European markets 
with Paramount and Route 66. 
The consumer trend to smaller mass market cigars 
has continued and in France we have grown Niñas 
pocket cigars to 6.8 per cent (2010: 5.7 per cent)  
of the total cigar market.
In Scandinavia, we have increased volumes of our 
snus brands Knox and Skruf by 30 per cent and are 
well placed to drive continued growth in this popular 
tobacco category. 
Spain in 2011
Exceptional circumstances have made Spain a 
difficult market this year.
The ban on smoking in public places that came  
into effect in January and excise duty increases  
have impacted consumers who were already feeling 
particularly cost conscious as a result of the tough 
economic conditions in Spain.
We’ve been alert to evolving consumer dynamics 
through our total tobacco approach. We’ve focused 
on providing consumers with the value brands and 
products they are looking for, enabling us to grow 
volumes within these growth segments.
Competitor pricing activity in the second half of the 
year significantly impacted the overall profitability of the 
Spanish market, as well as our revenues and profits.
In May and June market cigarette prices reduced  
as a result of various brands being repositioned.  
We increased our prices in July and September.  
All our products are now priced at, or above,  
the levels at the start of the year.
We will continue to drive growth across our  
portfolio and will always act to protect our market 
position and the long-term sustainability of our 
Spanish business. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 24
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Non-EU
Operating Review continued Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
25
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
 We are delivering strong emerging market 
performances and see many opportunities  
to grow our business in this region.
Key Brands
Market Share Performance
1
Cigarettes
% 2011 2010
Australia 19.1 17.5
Morocco 83.1 83.1
Russia 8.8 9.2
2
Saudi Arabia 9.4 10.3
2
Taiwan 11.3 11.0
Turkey 3.3 3.9
Ukraine 22.2 20.9
2
USA 3.9 3.9
Fine Cut Tobacco
% 2011 2010
Australia 59.9 59.5
1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2 Restated due to a change of source or basis.
Non-EU Performance
Volume
Stick 
equivalents Cigarettes Fine cut tobacco 
Billions 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Americas 12.9 12.2 12.3 11.9 0.6 0.3
Rest of  
the World 171.0 170.3 168.6 167.6 2.4 2.7
Total 183.9 182.5 180.9 179.5 3.0 3.0
Net Revenue 
£ million 2011
Foreign 
exchange 
2011
Constant 
currency 
2011
Change at 
constant 
currency 
% 2010
Americas 731 (22) 753 +3.7 726
Rest of  
the World 2,345 9 2,336 +5.7 2,210
Total 3,076 (13) 3,089 +5.2 2,936
Adjusted Operating Profit
£ million 2011
Foreign 
exchange 
2011
Constant 
currency 
2011
Change at 
constant 
currency 
% 2010
Americas 234 (8) 242 -0.8 244
Rest of  
the World 794 5 789 +13.9 693
Total 1,028 (3) 1,031 +10.0 937 Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 26
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Operating Review continued
Non-EU Markets Overview
Our non-EU markets comprise the emerging markets 
of Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and 
Asia and the more developed markets of the USA  
and Australasia. This is a developing region for us  
and we see many opportunities to grow our business.
As in all our markets, consumer insight enables us  
to put the right portfolio in place to further grow sales. 
In a number of markets consumers are trading up  
to premium brands and products. We are focused  
on achieving further success with our international 
strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises  
Blondes and West. Demand for our luxury Cuban 
cigars continues to grow in key emerging markets.
In the USA and in Australasia, consumers are 
economising and the key trend is for value brands  
and products.
Non-EU Markets Results
1
We delivered strong emerging market performances  
in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and  
in Asia-Pacific. In our Rest of the World region we 
grew net revenues by 6 per cent to £2,345 million  
and adjusted operating profits by 14 per cent to  
£794 million. We have improved our sales mix with 
profits up by 21 per cent in Eastern Europe, 8 per cent 
in Africa and the Middle East and 27 per cent in 
Asia-Pacific.
We grew our Americas net revenue by 4 per cent to 
£731 million. We increased prices across our USA 
portfolio although our adjusted operating profit was 
down by 1 per cent overall to £234 million, impacted 
by an unfavourable shift in sales mix and significant 
competitor discounting particularly in the second half 
of the year.
Rest of the World Performance
Africa and Middle East 
In Africa and the Middle East, we grew volumes and 
our profits were up by 8 per cent. Fine performed well 
in Africa with good volume growth in Burkina Faso and 
Côte d’lvoire.
We delivered excellent volume gains with Gauloises 
Blondes particularly in Algeria and also in Morocco, 
where the brand supported our overall share at  
83.1 per cent. 
We have grown volumes of Davidoff in the Middle 
East, notably in Saudi Arabia, and increased our 
market share in the United Arab Emirates.
Eastern Europe
In Eastern Europe, we have focused on our global 
international strategic brands and innovative formats. 
This approach is delivering excellent results with 
Davidoff and West growing strongly in the growing 
superslims and kingsize superslims segments.
Although cigarette volumes in Russia and Ukraine 
have declined, the rate of decline has continued  
to slow. More consumers are trading up, which 
combined with price increases has improved our 
overall sales mix. 
In Russia, Style and Maxim grew share; our overall 
share was 8.8 per cent impacted by Balkan Star 
declines, as we continue to prioritise the profitability  
of the brand. 
In Ukraine, we have further extended our market share 
to 22.2 per cent with Davidoff and Style and we have 
grown our share of innovative formats both in Ukraine 
and in other Eastern European markets including  
in Azerbaijan. 
Asia-Pacific
We have delivered an excellent performance  
across the Asia-Pacific region and grew our profits 
significantly, up by 27 per cent. 
In Taiwan, we grew Davidoff and West and our overall 
market share was up to 11.3 per cent. In Australia  
and New Zealand our success with JPS continued  
in both markets, with our cigarette market shares  
up to 19.1 per cent and 19.9 per cent respectively. 
Elsewhere we grew cigarette market shares in 
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos and continued to  
build sales of Davidoff in South Korea with our 
partners KT&G.
Habanos
Our luxury Habanos cigar portfolio has again delivered 
another good performance and we grew our volumes 
by 4 per cent in non-EU markets. We have continued 
to add to the momentum of our portfolio with new 
offerings including limited editions of our core brands 
Cohiba and Montecristo and delivered excellent 
growth in Russia, Brazil and China. 
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
27
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Americas
USA Overview
We estimate the overall cigarette market was down  
1 per cent to 295.6 billion cigarettes. 
The cigarette market remains extremely competitive 
and we have focused on strengthening our business 
by integrating our cigarette and mass market cigar 
sales forces. In cigars the trend toward smaller sized 
mass market cigars and cigarillos continued. 
USA Performance
In cigarettes we grew our market share of Fortuna and 
Rave, although USA Gold and Sonoma were under 
pressure with our overall cigarette market share stable 
at 3.9 per cent.
Across our premium handmade cigar business we 
delivered good growth, while in mass market cigars 
we have successfully launched new brand variants  
in the value segment. In natural wrapper cigars, our 
largest mass market cigar category, we delivered a 
positive performance with Backwoods.
EU and Non-EU Market Outlook
We will continue to focus on driving growth  
through our total tobacco portfolio across our 
international footprint.
Whilst there will undoubtedly be challenges in some 
markets, we are confident of being able to build on 
our growth momentum in EU and Non-EU markets.
We have been alert to changing consumer dynamics, 
enabling us to capitalise on both value seeking 
consumer trends in the EU, as well as the growing 
demand for our global brands and products in 
non-EU emerging markets. This effective portfolio 
management approach will enable us to build further 
sales as we continue to capitalise on meeting the 
demands of more consumers in more markets on 
more consumption occasions.
In the EU this requires a focus on key cigarette and 
fine cut tobacco brands such as JPS and Route 66. 
In the emerging markets outside the EU we will 
continue to drive growth through our global strategic 
cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and 
West, whilst building on the sales success of our 
luxury cigars.
Consumer relevant innovation is key to driving 
growth and we will further develop our pipeline of 
scalable innovations based on consumer insights. 
GlideTec is an excellent example of this; national 
rollout with Lambert & Butler in the UK is ongoing 
and we are finalising plans to scale this exciting 
initiative with other brands across other markets.  
We are progressing a number of other innovations  
to add to our sales potential.
Delivering excellence in customer engagement is 
critical to the success of our portfolio initiatives,  
and we are developing even stronger connections 
with our retail partners to maximise the advocacy 
and availability of our brands and products. 
Pricing will remain a key component of revenue 
growth going forward. In the EU we recently 
increased our prices in a number of our major 
markets, which will strengthen our financial 
performance. There are also significant pricing 
opportunities outside the EU which will further 
improve our results. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 28
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Logistics
Operating Review continued Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
29
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Our Performance
1
We delivered a robust performance against a backdrop of 
challenging economic conditions, which we have managed 
through our diligent focus on costs. 
Distribution fees were broadly stable at £932 million (2010:  
£936 million) and we grew our adjusted operating profit by  
4 per cent to £183 million (2010: £176 million) as a result of 
increased efficiencies. 
In tobacco logistics, our business has been resilient. In Spain, 
the year has been difficult due to cigarette volume decreases 
and cigarette companies repositioning prices downwards  
during the summer months. We have been able to partially 
offset this impact with increases in our distribution fees, 
increased volumes of cigars and fine cut tobacco, and cost 
saving initiatives. In France and Italy tobacco market volumes 
were broadly stable, with our results benefiting from tobacco 
price increases and efficiency improvements.
In other logistics, we have improved our performance  
across all our businesses. This is due to our continued focus  
on maintaining our profitability while continuing to seek 
opportunities to further grow our operations. Our transport 
business delivered strong results as a result of cost savings  
and integration with other business lines. In our pharma 
division, we have continued to grow our market share and we 
also increased our market share in our wholesale business. 
Outlook
Our strategy is to further consolidate our leading positions  
and focus on our core profitable activities while widening our 
logistics services and increasing the channels and countries 
that we access. 
We will seek to identify further opportunities to grow our 
logistics business while maintaining our cost discipline.
Logistics
£ million 2011
Foreign 
exchange 
2011
Constant 
currency 
2011
Change at 
constant 
currency 
% 2010
Distribution fees 932 (1) 933 -0.3 936
Adjusted 
operating profit 183 – 183 4.0 176
Overview 
Our logistics business is one of the largest in Europe, making 
around 40 million deliveries per year in Spain, France, Italy, 
Portugal and Poland.
We offer services across the whole logistics value chain  
to our customers, including order reception, storage and  
stock management, order preparation, transport and 
distribution, invoicing and collection and customer services.  
Our business has two key aspects – tobacco logistics and 
non-tobacco logistics.
Tobacco Logistics
Tobacco logistics delivers products for domestic and 
international tobacco companies, including Imperial Tobacco,  
to tobacconists and other sales outlets in Spain, France, Italy, 
Portugal and Poland. The business is run on an operationally 
neutral basis, providing individual customer solutions.
Non-Tobacco Logistics 
Non-Tobacco logistics provides specialised services  
for customers in a number of different sectors in Spain, 
Portugal, France and Italy which includes convenience, 
telecommunications, transportation, pharmaceutical,  
publishing, and lottery. Our integrated logistics services  
can assure full traceability throughout the entire logistics value 
chain, from pick-up and transport of the product at customers’ 
factories to post-sale service. 
We are market leaders in the distribution of convenience  
products to petrol stations in Spain, Portugal and France. 
Convenience products are also distributed to other points of 
sale in these countries and in Italy, including to tobacconists, 
bakeries and grocery stores.
We have an e-transaction business with our own technological 
platform for e-recharge, installed in the main network of points  
of sale including in tobacconists, kiosks and convenience shops 
in Spain, Portugal and France. In this area, different products  
are offered including telephone cards and transport tickets.
We are present in the transportation segment, through  
courier and industrial parcel activities in Spain and Portugal.  
Our long distance transport network across Europe allows  
us to provide our customers with integrated solutions for their 
logistics needs covering all services, from their factories to the 
point of sale. In addition, our logistics business is the leading 
logistics provider in Spain and Portugal in a number of sectors,  
including pharmaceutical and publishing.
Our logistics business is one of the 
largest of its kind in Europe, making 
around 40 million deliveries per year.
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 30
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
“
 Our financial results reflect 
the sales momentum we  
are building across EU  
and Non-EU markets.
”
Robert Dyrbus, Finance Director
Revenue
£ million 2011 2010
Tobacco 21,277 20,210
Logistics 8,911 8,980
Eliminations (965) (1,017) 
Group revenue 29,223 28,173
Tobacco net revenue 6,913 6,793
Logistics distribution fees 932 936
Group Earnings Performance
Adjusted Reported
£ million 2011 2010 2011 2010
Operating profit
Tobacco 2,924 2,889 2,577 2,490
Logistics 183 176 67 36
Eliminations (4) 2 (4) 2
Group operating profit 3,103 3,067 2,640 2,528
Net finance costs (562) (600) (487) (410)
Profit before taxation 2,541 2,467 2,153 2,118
Taxation (617) (637) (337) (596)
Profit for the year 1,924 1,830 1,816 1,522
Earnings per ordinary 
share (pence) 188.0 178.8 177.3 148.5
The analysis of our financial results below focuses  
on our adjusted measures, which reflect the way in 
which we manage the business, and provides a useful 
comparison of business performance. 
Percentage growth figures for our adjusted results are 
given on a constant currency basis, where exchange 
translation (but not transactional) effects are removed 
by applying 2010 exchange rates to the 2011 results.
Revenue Performance
Growth in net revenue reflects overall volume growth  
in our strategic cigarette brands, fine cut tobacco, 
cigars and snus, as well as price increases and higher 
volumes in our non-EU markets, notably Asia-Pacific. 
We grew our tobacco net revenue by 2 per cent while 
our logistics distribution fees were broadly in line with 
last year. 
Group Earnings Performance
Adjusted operating profit was up by 1 per cent  
with good growth in Germany, Rest of EU, Eastern 
Europe and Asia-Pacific offset by the exceptional 
circumstances in Spain and the impact of trade  
buying patterns in the UK. 
Tobacco adjusted operating profit was up 1 per cent 
with Logistics adjusted operating profit up 4 per cent 
as a result of increased efficiencies. 
Adjusted net finance costs were down by 7 per cent, 
reflecting further repayment of bank debt partially 
offset by an increase in the average cost of net debt.
After tax at an effective rate of 24.3 per cent  
(2010: 25.8 per cent), adjusted earnings per share 
grew by over 5 per cent to 188.0 pence.
Reported earnings per share were 177.3 pence  
(2010: 148.5 pence), additionally reflecting fair value 
and exchange movements on financial instruments, 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring 
costs, the release of certain tax provisions and other 
adjusting items as outlined below.
Financial  
Review Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
31
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Reconciliation of Adjusted Performance Measures
Operating profit 
(£ million) 
Net finance costs 
(£ million)
Earnings per share 
(pence)
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Reported 2,640 2,528 (487) (410) 177.3 148.5
Acquisition accounting adjustments – 24 – – – 2.0
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 402 451 – – 32.1 37.1
Net fair value and exchange gains  
on financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges – – (85) (210) (6.1) (14.9)
Post-employment benefits net  
financing cost – – 10 20 0.6 1.3
Restructuring costs 61 64 – – 4.3 4.8
Tax provision release – – – – (20.2) –
Adjusted 3,103 3,067 (562) (600) 188.0 178.8
Reconciliation of Adjusted 
Performance Measures
Amortisation of acquired intangibles fell to £402 million 
(2010: £451 million) as a number of these assets 
became fully written down.
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial 
instruments providing commercial hedges included  
in reported net finance costs were £85 million  
(2010: £210 million).
The net financing cost of post-employment benefits 
amounted to £10 million compared with £20 million 
in 2010.
Restructuring costs of £61 million (2010: £64 million) 
include impairments of surplus properties in Spain, 
amounts relating to restructuring within the Americas, 
and manufacturing rationalisation in Spain.
The release of tax provisions of £205 million due to  
the resolution of certain prior year tax matters has 
significantly reduced our reported tax charge. 
A good financial 
performance Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 32
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Net Finance Costs
£ million 2011 2010
Net finance costs 487 410
Net fair value and exchange 
gains on financial instruments 
providing commercial hedges 85 210
Post-employment benefits 
net financing cost (10) (20)
Adjusted net finance costs 562 600
Adjusted net finance costs were down from  
£600 million to £562 million, a reduction of 7 per cent. 
Reported net finance costs were £487 million  
(2010: 410 million). Our all in cost of debt was  
higher at 5.7 per cent (2010: 5.5 per cent),  
primarily reflecting the change in our debt mix.  
Our interest cover was 5.5 times (2010: 5.1 times).
Cash Flows and Financing
Our reported net debt was £9.4 billion, down  
£0.6 billion from £10.0 billion at 30 September 2010. 
Eliminating accrued interest, the fair value of 
derivatives providing commercial cash flow hedges 
and finance lease liabilities, our adjusted net debt  
was £8.8 billion, down by £0.5 billion since  
30 September 2010. This is after returning  
£1,073 million (2010: £773 million) to our shareholders 
during the year, comprising £181 million of share 
buybacks and dividend payments of £892 million.  
Our cash conversion rate at 88 per cent was below 
our target as a result of increased investment in plant 
and equipment to improve efficiency and support  
new product formats in growth areas, and also the 
unwinding of the £100 million Italian Logistics benefit 
we had in 2010. 
The denomination of our closing adjusted net debt 
was 48 per cent euro, 16 per cent US dollar and  
36 per cent sterling. As at 30 September 2011,  
we had committed financing facilities in place of 
around £12 billion. Some 21 per cent was bank 
facilities with the balance raised through capital  
market bond issues. We remain fully compliant  
with all our banking covenants and remain  
committed to retaining our investment grade ratings.
Share Buyback Programme 
and Dividends
At our half year results in May, we announced a share 
buyback programme of £500 million on an annualised 
basis and plans to gradually increase our dividend 
payout ratio by steadily growing dividends per share 
ahead of adjusted earnings per share from next year. 
We have increased our dividend payout ratio to  
50.6 per cent of adjusted earnings per share and the 
Board recommends a final dividend of 67.0 per share. 
This brings the total dividend to 95.1 pence per share, 
an increase of 12.8 per cent.
During the year we spent £182 million including 
transaction costs, acquiring 8.7 million shares which 
are held as treasury shares. The average price  
paid was £20.84. At 30 September 2011, we held 
57.0 million shares representing 5.3 per cent of our 
issued share capital.
Financial Review continued Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
33
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
A sustainable and 
responsible business
Corporate Responsibility Review  Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 34
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Reflecting our belief that operating in a responsible  
manner is simply part of how we do business, we  
have again incorporated our corporate responsibility 
performance into our annual report to provide stakeholders 
with a comprehensive overview of our achievements.
Why is our Responsibility Strategy so 
important to us?
We recognise that as a global tobacco company our products 
are viewed as controversial. We also recognise the importance  
of manufacturing, marketing and selling our products in a way 
that is financially, socially and environmentally responsible.  
This approach underpins our growth strategy; it is an integral  
part of how we operate.
The supply chain for tobacco products from crop seed to  
shop shelf is global, involving hundreds of thousands of  
people worldwide. Millions of people choose to enjoy tobacco 
products on a daily basis. Smokers and other tobacco users  
are informed of health risks associated with the products they 
enjoy by Governments, health bodies and lobbying groups. 
Society has a choice whether demand for tobacco products 
should be met illegally by criminals selling counterfeit or 
smuggled goods, or by tax-paying, well-governed companies 
which are committed to operating responsibly and working  
in partnership with stakeholders. These stakeholders are  
many and include employees, consumers, retailers, suppliers, 
regulators, government representatives, investors and people 
living in the communities connected to our operations.
We strongly advocate that it is better for both consumers  
and society if the demand for tobacco products is met  
by responsible companies such as Imperial Tobacco.  
Operating in a responsible manner is simply part of how  
we conduct business, underpins our long-term value  
creation and supports a sustainable business model.  
Our responsibility strategy focuses on four areas: making  
and selling responsibly, enabling our people, respecting  
natural resources and partnering with and contributing  
to society.
More information on our CR Strategy 
and our objectives for 2012 is  
available on our website  
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr
2011 Highlights
We delivered particularly strong performances in strengthening 
our anti-illicit trade activities, raising standards for ethical 
sourcing with leaf suppliers, exceeding our 10-year targets  
for waste to landfill and energy usage and lowering our  
accident rates. We progressed 96 per cent of our public  
CR commitments.
We were awarded another Gold Award in the Business in the 
Community CR Index.
We achieved 71 per cent in the SAM assessment for the  
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
35
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Making and Selling Responsibly
We make and sell tobacco products responsibly. We focus  
on the quality of our products to delight consumers, minimise 
waste, optimise production costs and meet the specifications 
determined by national product regulation.
Anti-illicit Trade
We want to ensure that the tobacco industry meets the global 
demand for tobacco products rather than the criminals who 
operate in the illicit market. 
Our anti-illicit trade activities protect the legitimate duty paid 
tobacco market. By actively tackling this problem we seek to 
regain some of the lost volume in legitimate duty paid cigarettes, 
contributing to our sales growth ambitions and protecting 
government revenues, the legitimate businesses of tobacco 
retailers and our consumers. 
There are three elements to illicit trade:
 – Contraband – genuine product imported/exported illegally  
to avoid local excise duties 
 – Counterfeit – fake tobacco products manufactured to look  
like our trademark brands 
 – Illicit whites – low cost legally produced cigarettes sold  
illegally outside their intended market 
In 2011 we have seen the downward trend in contraband 
seizures continue as a result of further enhancing our security 
controls, while counterfeit seizures remained broadly unchanged 
from 2010. There has been a noticeable rise in illicit whites 
entering mature markets in Western Europe such as the UK, 
Ireland, France and Germany from Eastern Europe, the Middle 
East and Asia.
We have built on the co-operation agreement we signed in 2010 
with the European Commission and EU Member States to jointly 
combat illicit trade. This has involved co-ordinated anti-illicit 
trade activity and information sharing with customs authorities 
and industry partners across the EU and neighbouring states. 
This agreement includes payments by Imperial Tobacco of  
$300 million over 20 years to fund anti-illicit trade initiatives.
We extended our Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) and 
co-operation agreements with national governments to tackle 
illicit trade, with MoUs signed in the Netherlands and Ukraine  
in 2011 bringing the total to 19 (2010: 18 agreements).  
Similar agreements are being sought in other markets.
We are implementing Track and Trace technology across our 
portfolio to enable us to track products through the supply chain 
from manufacturing to first customer and also trace any product 
back to source if it is found to have entered the illegal channel.  
A phased implementation over the next five years will see the 
technology rolled out at 14 of our manufacturing sites and up  
to 80 warehouses supplying approximately 20 markets in the  
EU and beyond.
Tobacco Regulation
As a leading multi-national business it is important our voice is 
heard. We have a responsibility to represent our own and our 
stakeholder interests and to inform the regulatory debate.
Tobacco regulation is constantly evolving and there are now  
very few countries globally that do not have some form of 
tobacco regulation. 
The key drivers of regulation continue to be the World Health 
Organization (WHO) – through the Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control (FCTC), the European Commission – through 
the European Union Tobacco Products Directive (EUTPD) –  
and national governments.
The European Commission launched a public consultation on 
their proposals for amending the EUTPD in September 2010. 
There were more than 80,000 responses – making it one of  
the most responded to public consultations ever run by the 
Commission. An Impact Assessment is currently being drafted 
by the Commission, which is expected to be published during 
the summer of 2012. 
Key data reported in the annual report and accounts for  
the year to 30 September 2011 has been independently 
assured under the limited assurance requirements ISAE3000 
standard by PwC. They have also been engaged to look  
at our alignment with AA1000AS (2008) principles of 
inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness. The selected 
data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within 
the annual report on page 41 and also the information 
included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the 
website www.imperial-tobacco.com where their moderate 
assurance statement can be found. Earlier data was assured 
by another provider. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 36
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
We have continued to engage with regulators and government 
authorities in support of reasonable and practical regulation,  
so that regulators can draw on our own unique commercial  
and technical knowledge and expertise. 
We attended the WHO’s 4th Conference of the Parties to  
the FCTC in November 2010 despite being excluded from 
participating at their various debates. Both ahead of and 
following the conference, we engaged with governments  
to inform them about our views on the different FCTC work 
streams. All Parties to the Convention will meet again in  
South Korea at the end of 2012.
We contributed to the debate around regulation by making 
numerous submissions to consultations at a local level  
in countries including the UK, Australia, the USA and  
New Zealand.
We have focused our efforts on the situation in Australia where 
the government has progressed its plans for the plain packaging 
of tobacco products. During the year we ran a high profile 
campaign in Australia against the plain packaging of tobacco 
products which included TV, radio and newspaper advertising, 
petitions and a dedicated campaign website.
Tobacco and Health
As a manufacturer of tobacco products, we employ  
scientists who monitor and review developments in the  
area of smoking and health to ensure we fulfil our duties  
as a responsible manufacturer. 
During 2011 we continued to monitor research in areas relevant 
to tobacco by reviewing scientific literature, consulting with 
experts on emerging developments and attending conferences 
on a range of related topics.
We consider requests to fund research into the mechanisms of 
diseases associated with tobacco products. We do not seek  
to influence the results or the publication of such research.  
Some scientific researchers refuse to accept tobacco companies’ 
funding. This is a matter of regret as we believe the area continues 
to require the attention of independent, academic science.
Improving Product Quality
We focus on product quality to meet the preferences of our 
consumers. Our product quality rating system (PQRS) is applied 
to all our factories and has been implemented in our tobacco 
processing sites this year. 
Consumer insight in several regions across the world has 
enabled us to further improve quality and to better define 
consumer-driven quality standards.
The ISO 9001 management system provides our framework for 
quality. A total of 35 of our 51 factories are ISO 9001 certified, 
with projects underway to implement the standard in 10 other 
sites in 2012. 
Ingredients Reporting and Assessment
Consumers and governments want to know what is in our 
products. We therefore support transparency with our approach 
to ingredients reporting. We provide regular submissions to 
individual governments on the ingredients used in our tobacco 
products and made 48 submissions in the year. 
Reporting has grown to more than just providing details of the 
ingredients we use and we now provide technical information 
about our products in a number of countries.
Consumers are able to access ingredient information  
for a number of our products via our website  
www.imperial-tobacco.com under ‘About tobacco’.  
We plan to provide information on the ingredients used in  
a wider range of our products on our website in 2012.
We monitor alleged incidents of non-compliance with technical 
product regulations and voluntary codes and comply with 
government regulations on tobacco product ingredients.  
In countries where no regulations exist we conform to 
international standards.
Youth Smoking Prevention
We believe that the decision to enjoy tobacco products is  
a choice for adults and adults only. 
Many markets continued to participate in youth access 
prevention activities including communication of minimum  
age at point of sale campaigns and specific examples are 
available on our website.
Marketing Standards
We take care not to make our products attractive to children. 
We have our International Standard for the Marketing of 
Tobacco Products (IMS) to ensure we market our products 
responsibly. All Regional Directors have confirmed compliance 
to our IMS in markets worldwide.
We continue to monitor a few alleged breaches of marketing 
related regulations, voluntary codes and agreements.  Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
37
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Making and Selling Responsibly: Anti-illicit trade 
activities in Burkina Faso
Imperial Tobacco’s subsidiary in Burkina Faso, MABUCIG, 
has been working closely with the authorities in the West 
African nation to tackle the trade in illicit cigarettes.
More than 169,000 cartons of smuggled cigarettes have 
been seized and confiscated by the Government’s anti-illicit 
trade body in recent months and then destroyed.
Anti-illicit trade actions such as this are important to protect 
legitimate trade, government revenues, tobacco retailers  
and consumers. 
Making and Selling Responsibly: Digital Tax Verification
Digital Tax Verification (DTV) is a joint industry initiative which 
supports our overall strategy to tackle illicit trade by replacing 
paper tax stamps with government-authorised unique codes 
printed directly onto packs. 
The ‘tax paid’ status is verified and enables all supply  
chain stakeholders to confirm the authenticity of genuine 
tobacco products. 
Unlike paper stamps, which can be copied or stolen, the 
DTV system Codentify provides a more secure and cost 
effective system of verification.
Trials of Codentify are taking place in a number of markets  
in order to demonstrate its effectiveness.
Enabling our People
Our people make our strategy happen. Business success is 
achieved when employees are enabled to do their very best.  
We must enable our people by providing safe well-equipped 
working environments, clearly defining performance 
expectations and motivating them to do their best work by 
listening to their needs, rewarding them fairly, developing their 
talents and respecting people as individuals. 
We continue to focus on employee engagement, personal 
development, motivation, fairness and productivity to encourage 
our employees to excel at what they do.
We completed our first engagement survey across our 
management team and were very encouraged by the 85 per 
cent response rate and an engagement score of 59 per cent, 
which was higher than the benchmark for other similar  
FMCG companies. 
Results from the survey have shaped a number of performance 
improvement and development initiatives. 
In March 2011, our European Employee Forum (EEF) and the 
Comité d’Enterprise Européen du Groupe Altadis (CEEGA) were 
combined to form the Imperial Tobacco European Employee 
Works Council (ITEEWC). The first meeting of the ITEEWC will 
be held in December 2011, bringing together senior executives 
and employees to discuss transnational issues affecting 
employees in Europe and share information on the performance 
of the company. 
We have chosen not to report employment practice data for this 
financial year, whilst improvements are being implemented and 
indicators validated. We aim to report our revised employment 
practice indicators in 2012 to cover performance management, 
equal opportunities, employee representation, grievances and 
disciplinary actions.
Diversity and Equality
Appointing the best people, regardless of gender, race, religion, 
age, sexual orientation or disability, is crucial. We appoint  
people purely on merit and seek to attract highly skilled people 
to deliver our sales growth strategy. We encourage a diverse 
workforce by ensuring non-discrimination and equality. 
Workplace Health & Safety
We are committed to continuous improvements in our 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) risk controls. Our Chief 
Executive is responsible for OHS and chairs a steering group  
of senior managers to deliver improvements throughout  
the business. 
Senior managers across the Group receive quarterly OHS update 
reports to highlight areas of concern and share best practice.
Our overall accident rate continues to improve in manufacturing 
and we want to improve further in the rest of our business.  
Our verified lost time accident frequency rate for 2010 was  
1.29 compared to 1.57 in 2009. Provisional data for 2011 
indicates that our occupational health and safety performance 
made further good progress.
Regrettably there was one fatality in the year when a haulage 
contractor delivering to our ADF Le Mans site in France was 
crushed between the rear of his vehicle and a loading bay. 
Detailed safety guidance was issued Group-wide.
We completed the global rollout of our ‘Deal With It’  
behavioural safety training programme involving more than 
10,000 employees and contractors on four continents.  
The interactive programme was one of the largest training 
programmes we have undertaken. In addition, we have  
put in place new near miss reporting and incident review 
processes to sustain the training programme and staged  
an international safety quiz for manufacturing employees.
Ten more production sites have achieved OHSAS 18001 
certification of their management systems following  
independent external audits in this financial year.  Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 38
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Enabling our People: Safety Pin Competition
A Group-wide competition to reinforce the importance of 
workplace health and safety in our factories was a huge 
success with our employees.
More than 700 employees from nine of our production sites  
in eight different countries took part in the ‘Safety Pin’ initiative 
with teams competing against one another in a test of their 
OHSE knowledge, understanding and practical skills.
Respecting Natural Resources
We are reliant on tobacco leaf as an agricultural product,  
wood for paper and packaging in our products and water to  
first grow and then process our tobacco. Respecting natural 
resources brings us opportunities to protect ourselves against 
the unpredictability of climate change and the associated 
increase in carbon regulation.
Climate Change
We remain committed to further reducing our carbon footprint. 
Our goal is to reduce energy usage by 20 per cent by 2020.  
Our climate change strategy is focused on reducing our impact 
through energy conservation, lower carbon technologies, 
renewable energy and carbon offsetting. 
We are concentrating on energy efficiency improvements though 
independent energy audits and guaranteed savings contracts. 
Trials of this approach are underway at two sites – Logroño in 
Spain and Radom in Poland – before we extend Group wide.
We will invest in renewables when commercial opportunities 
arise. For example, this year we invested in a solar installation  
at our factory in Reidsville in the USA and a ground source heat 
pump system at our Joure factory in the Netherlands.
Further details of our climate change risks, opportunities and 
performance are available at www.imperial-tobacco.com.
This financial year we have continued to invest in manufacturing 
equipment at cigarette production sites in Africa as we aim  
to bring them up to the standards of our European factories.  
Our logistics operations and our cigar factories have been  
an area of OHS focus which will continue in 2012.
Social Assessment and Human Rights
Ensuring our people are treated fairly and with respect is  
important to us in terms of having a motivated workplace.  
We have completed our assessment programme focused on 
manufacturing sites in countries deemed medium to high risk in 
terms of human rights. The assessments were conducted as 
guided by the SA8000 international social accountability standard. 
During 2011 we concluded a combination of site visits and 
desk-based reviews to ensure our operations are in line with 
international standards, covering employee welfare issues  
such as working hours, grievance management and employee 
representation. Our assessments confirmed that local 
employment practices are aligned with our Group policies.
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct defines our expectations for standards  
of behaviour. It is important employees know the boundaries in 
which to make balanced commercial decisions and support our 
business integrity. The roll out of our enhanced code is ongoing 
with the text translated into 18 key languages.
During 2011 we continued face-to-face workshops covering the 
priority risk topics. These workshops have now been delivered 
to over 2,000 managers in face-to-face training and we have 
trained over 100 facilitators. We are developing an e-learning 
system which we will progress further in 2012. 
Enabling our People: Imperial Tobacco Spain  
and Poland
Our Spanish and Polish operations have both been 
recognised in 2011 as being among the best companies  
to work for in each country.
The Top Employers awards were made by the Corporate 
Research Foundation (CRF) Institute, an independent 
organisation that champions best practice in business. 
The CRF Institute identifies top performers in the areas of 
human resources, leadership and strategy and currently 
operates in 12 countries.
Companies were scored on a range of issues including 
employee benefits, training and development programmes, 
career initiatives, working conditions and corporate culture. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
39
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Respecting Natural Resources: 
Water Conservation
We are supporting an initiative in 
southern Brazil to encourage leaf 
growers to help conserve the 
region’s water resource. 
The Water Guardian Project  
was launched in May this  
year in the Rio Pardo basin –  
an important leaf sourcing  
area for Imperial Tobacco. 
This five-year project, in 
conjunction with one of our key 
supply partners, will reward 
farmers in the area who cut  
down on their water usage.
Respecting Natural Resources: Reidsville Solar Power
The largest solar panel installation within the Group has been 
installed at our Reidsville factory in the USA.
The system uses around 800 silicon roof panels and 
generates enough energy at its peak for almost 1,700  
100W light bulbs.
The system cost around $800,000 to install – a quarter of 
which was funded by a federal government grant designed 
to encourage companies to use solar power.
The income derived from selling the renewable energy and 
the benefit of tax credits mean the project will pay for itself  
in just four years.
Carbon Disclosure Project
Carbon management is a key element of our response to 
climate change. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) helps 
inform and focus our approach. We have participated in the 
CDP since its inception. The organisation is used by most 
institutional investors and global companies as the leading 
database for companies to share details of climate change  
risks, opportunities and performance. In 2011, our CDP score 
improved from 63 to 71.
We are also founder members of the CDP Supply Chain 
initiative, engaging with strategic suppliers, to identify shared 
saving opportunities to reduce the impact of climate change. 
Participating companies share data on a common platform and 
also share best practice. We hosted a number of collaborative 
events to encourage others in our sector to also use this 
platform to share data and streamline supplier engagement  
on carbon management.
Further details are available from the Carbon Disclosure  
Project website.
Environmental Performance
Our manufacturing process uses energy and water and creates 
waste. Minimising our environmental impact and seeking 
sustainable solutions can bring us benefits in terms of cost-
savings through efficiency, improving the quality and availability 
of our tobacco supply and simply getting more for less. 
We made good progress in 2010 and exceeded our 10-year 
targets. We reduced energy use by 13 per cent, and made 
excellent progress with our waste to landfill down by  
27 per cent. We also reduced our overall water consumption, 
which was down by 15 per cent. During 2011 we strengthened 
our approach to energy saving with, for example, the renewable 
energy investments in Reidsville and Joure. We are also pleased 
that progressing our environmental management systems is 
positively reducing water usage.
As part of our approach to sourcing tobacco leaf responsibly 
and ensuring its sustainable supply, we are investigating the 
environmental impact of tobacco growing and the initial results 
have been encouraging. This work is still in its early stages and 
we have been very pleased to receive the full co-operation of 
our major tobacco suppliers.
We have continued to extend ISO 14001 accreditation of 
environmental management standards across our manufacturing 
sites; 72 per cent of our manufacturing sites have now achieved 
certification. The latest to receive certification include facilities in 
Taiwan, Reidsville (USA) and Gabon. 
In addition, we have conducted environmental audits across our 
cigar manufacturing business to identify opportunities to reduce 
our impact and have benchmarked our environmental standards 
against those used by comparable FMCG equivalents to ensure 
our reduction targets remain meaningful.
Looking ahead we have developed a new energy baseline for 
comparison as well as clearer units of measure and we will be 
able to publish those figures in 2012. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 40
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Partnering with and Contributing to Society
Our operation and value chain is extensive and involves many 
stakeholders globally. We seek to exert our influence in 
partnerships to improve standards to ensure that discussions 
that concern the tobacco industry are informed and balanced. 
Our Supply Chain
Our main supplier engagement and assessment programmes 
are Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production (SRiTP) for 
tobacco suppliers and the Supplier Qualification Programme  
for the supply of non-tobacco materials.
We work with suppliers and business partners to tackle issues 
such as deforestation, environmental protection, child labour, 
sustainable development and poverty alleviation. 
The majority of the tobacco we use is purchased through the 
leading international leaf supplying companies – only a small 
amount is purchased directly from growers. All of our tobacco 
suppliers participate in the SRiTP programme.
Evaluation of our supplier SRiTP self assessment for 2011 
indicates an average score of 63 per cent which specifies a 
good level of risk management and an improvement since last 
year. We continue to work with lower scoring performers to drive 
improvements. Our approach is to work with suppliers to ensure 
compliance but if a supplier fails to meet our standards we will 
consider ending the business relationship.
We continued our support of the Eliminating Child Labour in 
Tobacco (ECLT) Foundation, of which we are a board member. 
The ECLT works with communities in tobacco producing  
regions to address the underlying causes of child labour.  
Given the importance of this partnership we increased our 
financial commitment during the year. 
We continued to focus on the challenge of sustainable  
wood-supply for tobacco curing, which includes issues such  
as biodiversity and climate change. We have engaged with our 
suppliers on this issue, appointed new management resource 
and are targeting an improvement in performance with our 
suppliers in this area.
For non-tobacco materials, 100 per cent of our strategic 
suppliers have been part of our Supplier Qualification 
programme, which includes social and environmental criteria. 
Nineteen supplier audits were completed in 2011. Audit results 
and required actions are detailed for individual suppliers and 
assessed against our own standards as well as ISO 9001 for 
quality and ISO 14001 for environment. 
Our relationships with suppliers support our anti-illicit trade 
initiatives and help them to comply with the high standards  
set out in our Code of Conduct.
Partnership Investment
We have revised our approach to community investment to better 
focus on supporting countries of need and those which are most 
important in terms of tobacco supply and our business presence.
We allocated around £3 million to partnership investment in 
2011 as well as the management time involved to maximise  
the benefits from our involvement.
During the year our employees also gave their time during 
normal working hours to contribute to local community 
programmes in a number of countries.
More information and examples of what we do are available  
on our website.
Partnering with Society: Imperial Tobacco in Bristol 
In August this year litter was collected from the streets by a 
team of around 60 Imperial Tobacco employees in Bristol.
The litter-picking exercise underlined Imperial Tobacco’s 
ongoing support for the ‘Love Where You Live’ campaign 
operated by the UK charity Keep Britain Tidy.
The campaign, backed by a number of high-profile FMCG 
companies, highlights the litter problem as one we have a 
collective responsibility to address.
Partnering with Society: Reforestation Scheme  
in Poland
Volunteers from our Tarnowo factory supported a project  
to replant a woodland area damaged in floods last year.
A group of Imperial Tobacco employees planted the trees  
in the Kobylepole Forest near Poznañ.
The ‘Plant a Tree with Us’ campaign was organised in 
partnership with the Babki Inspectorate of Forests as part  
of a wider regional reforestation scheme.
Our Polish employees also collaborated with the Inspectorate 
on a separate scheme to feed forest animals affected by 
adverse weather conditions. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
41
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Non-financial Performance Indicators
Performance indicator
1,2
Unit FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011
Product stewardship:
Number of countries for which cigarette ingredients are 
published on Imperial Tobacco corporate website
3
Number 36 36 34 34
Robust processes:
Factories that have independent OHS audits (3-year rolling 
programme) includes OHSAS 18001 surveillance
4
% factories 77 90 100 100
Factories that have independent environmental audits 
(3-year rolling programme) includes ISO 14001 surveillance % factories 74 81 86 90
Environment:
5
Factories with ISO 14001 at the time of reporting
6
% (ratio) 74 (23/31) 66 (37/56) 69 (35/51) 72 (36/50)
Environmental waste – tobacco factories only
7
Tonnes/MCE 0.108 0.123 0.130
Environmental waste – manufacturing sites and main offices
7
Tonnes 50,023 54,966 57,455
Environmental waste to landfill – tobacco factories only Tonnes/MCE 0.018 0.020 0.020
Environmental waste to landfill – manufacturing sites and 
main offices Tonnes 8,663 8,843 8,608
Energy consumption – tobacco factories only KWh/MCE 2,039 1,938 1,962
Energy consumption – manufacturing sites and main offices GWh 862 855 856
CO 2 equivalent emissions from energy consumed – 
tobacco factories only
8
Tonnes/MCE 0.486 0.607 0.616
CO 2 equivalent emissions from energy consumed – 
manufacturing sites and main offices
8
Tonnes 254,965 265,978 267,095
Supplier social responsibility:
Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production (SRiTP) 
progress – total weighted mean
9
% 60 63
Manufacturing’s non-tobacco materials suppliers covered 
by Supplier Qualification Programme % N/R 100 100 100
Partnership investment:
Community investment donations (spend)
10
£m 2.4 3.0 3.1 3.1
Employment practices:
11
Sickness absence (days sickness/average number working 
days) incl. non-work-related and work-related absence
12
% 2.96 3.93 3.73 2.97
Occupational health and safety:
13
Lost time accident frequency rate
14
Per 200,000 hours 1.56 1.57 1.29
Combating smuggling and counterfeit:
Total number of memoranda of understanding and 
cooperation agreements on combating smuggling  
and counterfeit signed with governments Number 15 16 18 19
1 We have reviewed our performance indicators to ensure we have measures appropriate for the enlarged Group. We aim to report data for the new set 
of indicators in our 2012 report. 
2 Due to the increased scale and scope of our organisation following the Altadis acquisition in January 2008, care should be taken when comparing data 
with previous years.
3 Cigarette ingredients information for New Zealand and Moldova has been temporarily removed from our website, pending update of product descriptors.
4 Nine of the OHS audits were conducted by Group OHS Specialists.
5 Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. Efficiency measures relative to tobacco production are 
expressed as per million cigarette equivalents (MCE). FY 2010 data covers all our manufacturing sites except non-EU cigar factories (reporting for FY 
2011), and excludes our logistics business. FY 2010 data has been assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP under the limited assurance requirements 
of the ISAE3000 standard; please see Reporting Criteria document and Assurance Statement available on the website. 
6 ISO 14001 data for 2008 excludes the Altadis factories. Data for 2011 excludes Bristol Cigar factory. 
7 Increase in waste in 2010 was largely due to substantial construction waste as a result of restructuring. 
8 We use the GHG Protocol and UK DEFRA guidelines to inform our reporting; elimination of the external reporting factors shows that CO2 emissions from 
our energy use generally achieves a similar 10 year reduction to our energy use. 
9 100% of tobacco suppliers participate in the SRiTP programme. 
10 Community investment donations do not include value of employee time, in-kind contribution or management costs. 
11 Employment indicators are under review therefore data is unavailable for FY 2011, except sickness absence data.
12 2011 sickness absence data covers the majority of employees, excluding Logistics. 
13 OHS data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. 2010 data covers the majority of employees, excluding Logistics, 
JR Cigars and joint ventures. 
14 Lost time accidents are work-related accidents resulting in absence from one or more scheduled workdays or shifts. FY 2010 data has been assured by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . 42
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Governance
Governance 43
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
“ 
Our sales growth strategy is 
supported by our embedded 
high standards of corporate 
governance and our strong 
management team.
”
Iain Napier, Chairman
Board
Chairman and 
Non-Executive
Directors
Chief Executive
 and Finance
Director
Risk
Co-ordination 
Committee
Disclosure 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Audit
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Operating
Executive
Development
Executive
Management and Corporate Structure
We remain committed to high standards 
of corporate governance and we  
support and apply the principles of  
good governance advocated by the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code). It is the Board’s view that the 
Company has been fully compliant with 
the Code throughout the 2010/2011 
financial year. The Code is available 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website www.frc.org.uk.
Good governance is, however, more  
than just complying with codes and 
guidelines. It is about ensuring we have 
the right management structures and 
processes in place to support our 
strategy and secure our long-term 
sustainability by:
 – ensuring good governance is embraced 
throughout the organisation;
 – maintaining controls which provide 
an environment that allows effective 
decision making whilst minimising 
unacceptable risk;
 – keeping an appropriate balance 
between Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors with the skills to constructively 
challenge key decisions; 
 – aligning the interests of shareholders, 
other stakeholders and management; 
and
 – being transparent with our shareholders 
and other stakeholders and providing 
the information they need to judge the 
performance of both the business and 
its management.
This report also includes the information 
required by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule (DTR) 7.2 to be contained in the 
Company’s corporate governance 
statement, with the exception of the 
information required by DTR 7.2.6,  
which is located on page 118.
Iain Napier
Chairman
Chairman’s Introduction 44
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors
1.
4.
7.
10. 11.
2.
5.
8.
3.
6.
9. 45
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
1. Iain Napier, FCMA
Chairman
Appointment: Appointed Chairman, January 
2007. Non-Executive Director from March 2000. 
Committee membership: Chairman of 
Nominations Committee. Skills and experience: 
Iain was formerly main board Director of Bass 
PLC, Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then 
of Bass Brewers and Bass International Brewers. 
He was then Vice President UK and Ireland for 
Interbrew SA until August 2001. He was Chief 
Executive of Taylor Woodrow International 
Housing and Development from 2001 to 2005. 
External appointments: Non-Executive 
Chairman of McBride PLC and John Menzies 
plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Molson 
Coors Brewing Company and William Grant 
& Sons Holdings Limited.
2. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA
Chief Executive 
Appointment: Appointed Chief Executive,  
May 2010. Skills and experience: Alison 
has held a number of senior roles in the 
Group including Director of Finance and 
Planning, Regional Director Western Europe, 
Corporate Development Director and Chief 
Operating Officer. Previously she was with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers where she had 
worked with Imperial Tobacco for several years 
in a number of areas, including acquisitions. 
External appointments: Non-Executive 
Director, Inchcape plc since July 2009.
3. Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA
Finance Director 
Appointment: Appointed Finance Director 
on demerger in 1996. Skills and experience: 
Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco 
Limited from November 1989 and was one 
of the three-man Hanson team involved in 
the strategic reorganisation of the Group. 
Since then he has played an integral part in 
shaping the strategic direction of the Group. 
External appointments: No external 
Director appointments.
4. Pierre Jungels, CBE (HON),  
PHD, C ENG
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, August 2002. Pierre will retire from 
the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM 
and will not be seeking re-appointment. 
Committee membership: Nominations 
Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee. Skills and experience: Pierre has 
held numerous senior international positions 
within the oil industry with Shell International, 
Petrofina SA and British Gas PLC. He became 
CEO of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the 
business to substantial geographic and 
financial growth until retirement in November 
2001. External appointments: Chairman 
of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of 
Baker Hughes Inc, Chairman of Rockhopper 
Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director 
of Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
5. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD, M Inst M
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, April 2006. Committee membership: 
Nominations Committee. Skills and experience: 
Ken is an independent management consultant 
and a co-founder and Director of K-Energy, an 
alternative energy company. He was President, 
Asia-Pacific of Allied Domecq from 1996 
until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005. 
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior 
management positions in the Asia Pacific 
region with Seagram, Interbrew and 
International Distillers & Vintners Ltd (now 
part of Diageo plc). External appointments: 
Director of K-Energy Pty Limited and Elemental 
Energy Technologies Limited. 
6. Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), Solicitor
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, July 2007. Committee membership: 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
Member of the Nominations Committee and 
the Audit Committee. Skills and experience: 
Michael was formerly General Counsel and 
Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI 
PLC with overall responsibility for corporate 
acquisitions and divestments and has extensive 
experience of both private and public market 
transactions. External appointments: 
Serves on the Board of Compass Partners 
International LLP and is currently General 
Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
7. Susan Murray 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, December 2004. Committee 
membership: Nominations Committee, 
Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: Susan was a board 
member at Littlewoods Limited from October 
1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief 
Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited. 
Prior to this she was worldwide President and 
Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, 
a part of Diageo plc. Susan is also a former 
Non-Executive Director of SSL International 
plc, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and a  
former council member of the Advertising 
Standards Authority. External appointments: 
Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and 
Non-Executive Director of Pernod Ricard SA, 
Compass Group PLC and Enterprise Inns Plc. 
Susan is also a fellow of the Royal Society  
of Arts.
8. Berge Setrakian 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, June 2008. Committee membership: 
Nominations Committee. Skills and experience: 
Berge is a senior partner in the law firm 
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive 
expertise in international transactions. He was 
a Non-Executive Director of Altadis, S.A. 
having been appointed in May 2004 and 
was a Non-Executive Director of Investcom, 
a telecommunications company which was 
acquired in 2006 by MTN, a Johannesburg-
based company. Berge is currently the 
Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, the 
largest philanthropic Armenian organisation in 
the world. He also serves as a Non-Executive 
Director on various not for profit organisations. 
External appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of Interaudi Bank of New York, Executive 
Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive 
Director of The Morganti Group, Inc.
9. Mark Williamson, CA (SA)
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, July 2007. Committee membership: 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
Member of the Nominations Committee 
and Remuneration Committee. Skills and 
experience: Mark has considerable international 
financial and general management experience. 
He joined International Power in 2000 as Group 
Financial Controller and was appointed to 
the board as Chief Financial Officer in 2003. 
Previously, he was Group Financial Controller 
and Group Chief Accountant at Simon Group, 
the engineering and bulk chemicals storage 
group. External appointments: Chief Financial 
Officer of International Power plc.
10. Malcolm Wyman, CA
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 
Director, October 2011. Committee 
membership: Nominations Committee, Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: Malcolm was formerly 
Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller plc.  
He joined the company in 1986 and the  
board as Corporate Finance Director in 1990. 
The company was listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in 1990 and he became Chief 
Financial Officer in 2001. His responsibilities 
included the group’s finance operations, 
corporate finance and development, and 
group strategy. External appointments: 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of 
Nedbank Group Limited and a Non-Executive 
Director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited, both 
listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
11. Matthew Phillips, LLB
Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director 
and Company Secretary
Appointment: Appointed Company Secretary, 
October 2004 and Group Corporate & Legal 
Affairs Director, October 2010. Skills and 
experience: Matthew joined Imperial Tobacco’s 
legal department in 2000 and was closely 
involved in the acquisitions of Reemtsma and 
Altadis. Previously he worked for law firms 
Linklaters and Burges Salmon. He was appointed 
General Counsel in November 2007 and 
subsequently Group Corporate and Legal 
Affairs Director in October 2010. 46
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The Board and the Group’s Key Committees
Board
At 30 September 2011 our Board was made up of nine people: 
our Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and six 
independent Non‑Executive Directors. The Board met six times 
during the year.
We believe that it is vital to our on‑going development and 
long‑term sustainability that our Directors have the right mix of 
backgrounds and experiences. The biographies of our Directors 
at 30 September 2011, on page 45, demonstrate such a mix 
including detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry, the wider 
fast‑moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector and a wide range 
of international business and financial experience. Directors 
during the year to 30 September 2011 are shown on page 49. 
On 3 October 2011, to further strengthen the Board, we 
appointed Malcolm Wyman as a Non‑Executive Director.  
Mr Wyman, a chartered accountant, brings considerable 
international experience in driving growth in the FMCG industry.
Board Operations
Our Board manages overall control of the Group’s affairs. 
Key to this control is the schedule of matters which are 
reserved for consideration by our Board and on which any 
final decision must be made by the Board. These include 
approving our strategy, corporate plans, major corporate 
activities, financial statements, payment of dividends 
and the appointment or removal of Directors and the 
Company Secretary.
All Directors are equally accountable for the long‑term interests 
of our shareholders and take account of the wider interests 
represented by our employees, customers and suppliers.  
All Board and Committee meetings during the year were held  
in an open atmosphere with chairmen encouraging robust and 
constructive challenge and debate. 
The open atmosphere enabled our Non‑Executive Directors to 
use their judgement, experience and independence to critically 
review and, where appropriate, challenge strategies proposed 
by management. This ensures the further development of our 
business, effective use of our resources and that we maintain 
our high standards of conduct. Where appropriate, papers 
presented to our Board include environmental, community, 
ethical and reputational issues, fully integrating them into our 
decision making and risk assessment processes. In 2011 the 
Board considered the retirement and appointment of Directors, 
our corporate and annual plans, our funding arrangements 
(specifically refinancing through Bond issues) and the outcome 
of the Board evaluation. In addition, as part of the strategy 
meeting senior managers from across the business presented 
on key strategic issues.
By reviewing the Group’s results at each Board meeting 
we ensure Directors are kept informed of our progress.  
Between meetings, Directors are supplied with monthly 
performance reports, including detailed commentary and 
analysis. Directors were fully informed of all Committee matters 
by the Committee chairmen reporting on the proceedings  
of their Committee at the subsequent Board meeting, with 
copies of Committee minutes distributed to all Directors. 
Our commitment to maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance and 
business conduct remains fundamental  
to ensuring our long‑term sustainability.
Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors
2
1
6
Chairman
Non-Executive
Executive
Corporate Governance Report 47
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Our Non‑Executive Directors play a key role in corporate 
accountability and governance through their membership of 
the Board’s Committees. The membership and remit of each 
Committee are considered below, together with a record of 
each Director’s attendance.
To ensure Directors are kept up‑to‑date on developing issues 
and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees, our Chairman and chairmen of the Committees 
communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other 
members of the Operating Executive.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined 
and separate responsibilities whilst retaining a close working 
relationship. They meet regularly between Board meetings 
to ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate 
swift decision making. They are responsible to our shareholders 
for the successful delivery of our strategy.
Through his effective leadership of the Board, our Chairman 
ensures all Directors are able to effectively contribute to 
discussions such that we fully benefit from their wide range  
of skills and experience. The Chairman, supported by our  
Senior Independent Director, is responsible for our effective 
communication with our shareholders and ensuring they can 
raise any concerns. 
Our Chief Executive, supported by the Operating Executive 
and the Development Executive, is responsible for developing 
our strategy and presenting it to the Board, the successful 
implementation of the agreed strategy and the day‑to‑day 
operational leadership of the Group. 
Non-Executive Directors
We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to 
our on‑going success. Our Non‑Executive Directors bring 
a diverse range of business and financial expertise to the  
Board, which complements and supplements the expertise  
of the Executive Directors. This range of expertise and 
experience enables them to evaluate information provided  
and constructively challenge management’s viewpoints  
and assumptions.
Following the annual Board evaluation, page 48, the Board 
concluded at its meeting in September 2011 that all our 
Non‑Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively 
and constructively to Board debate, to demonstrate 
commitment to their role, to objectively challenge and robustly 
question management and at all times to have the best interests 
of our shareholders in mind.
We, therefore, confirm that, with the exception of our Chairman, 
who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, 
our Non‑Executive Directors remain independent as defined in 
the Code.
Conflicts of Interest
To address the provisions of Section 175 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (the Act) relating to conflicts of interest, our Articles 
of Association allow the Board to authorise situations in which 
a Director has, or may have, a conflict of interest.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational 
and/or transactional conflicts which are considered at the 
following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, 
situational conflicts are authorised. We do not allow any Director 
to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their 
own conflicts. 
The Board has considered and authorised a number of 
situations all of which relate to the holding of external 
directorships and have been entered in our Conflicts Register. 
No actual conflicts have been identified. The Board considers 
that these procedures operate effectively.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting 
in September 2011 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations 
entered in the Conflicts Register. 
In order to underpin his independence we entered into an 
agreement with Mr B Setrakian on 25 June 2008 to minimise 
the risk of any conflict of interest between Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP , 
of which he is a partner, and the Company. This agreement remains 
in full force and effect and the Board confirms his compliance 
with its terms and, therefore, his continued independence.
Following the annual review the Board is satisfied there is no 
compromise to the independence of those Directors who have 
board appointments or relationships with companies outside 
the Group.
Director Industry Background/Experience
2
1
3
2
1
Tobacco
Energy
Legal
Manufacturing
FMCG 48
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Information, Support and Professional Development
New Directors receive a detailed induction and briefing 
programme, tailored to their needs, which includes site visits 
and meetings with our advisers and key senior managers. 
These meetings include briefings on strategy, operational issues, 
corporate responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal 
matters, product stewardship, environmental management, 
social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial 
risk management. 
No training needs were identified this year, although on‑going 
training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs. 
We also provide regular briefings to Directors on relevant issues 
such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate 
governance developments. 
Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received 
briefings from our Auditors and remuneration adviser 
respectively to ensure they remain up‑to‑date with current 
regulations and developments.
Our Directors can also seek independent professional advice, 
at our expense, if they think this is necessary for them to carry 
out their responsibilities. They also have access to the advice 
and support of our Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, 
who is also the Company Secretary, and, where appropriate, 
the services of other employees, for all governance and 
regulatory matters. 
Performance Evaluation
In order to continue to obtain the maximum benefit from our 
annual Board performance evaluation, new external facilitators, 
who have no other connection with the Group, were appointed 
to provide varying skills and a new focus for the 2011 Board 
evaluation. 
The facilitators obtained feedback from each Director through 
detailed questionnaires (individual and collective), interviews and 
attendance at a Board meeting. The feedback was collated into 
a report which was presented to the Board and used as the 
basis for one‑to‑one discussions between the Chairman and 
each Director.
Our Senior Independent Director met with the Non‑Executive 
Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to 
consider the performance of the Chairman. 
The results of these meetings and the evaluation formed the  
basis of a one‑to‑one meeting between our Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman.
The Chairman held meetings with the Non‑Executive Directors 
to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the 
Executive Directors. 
The main areas identified for review were the future size and 
structure of the Board, including the on‑going succession plans 
for Directors approaching retirement, ensuring the continuing 
development and delivery of the Group’s strategy together with 
the further alignment of the Group’s remuneration policies to 
support this strategy.
The evaluation did not identify any significant areas for concern 
nor any requirement to provide extra training for our Directors 
and, as such, the Board and its Committees are satisfied they 
are operating and performing effectively. The evaluation also 
confirmed that all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge 
and commitment to contribute effectively to our Board and its 
Committees and that it remains appropriately constituted.
To address the issues identified in the 2010 Board evaluation, 
during the year the structure and succession plans of the  
Board were reviewed together with the skill sets required of  
any potential new non‑executive directors.
Insurance 
We have purchased and, throughout the year, maintained 
appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors’ and Officers’ 
liabilities. The Company has also entered into qualifying third 
party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, 
in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the 
Act. These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up 
to the date of this Report.
How the Board Spends its Time (%)
25
35
15
10
10
5
Strategy
Financial 
performance 
and ﬁnancing
Governance
Other
Feedback from
Committees
Operating
performance 49
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Structure of the Board and Board Committees
Iain Napier (Chairman)
Alison Cooper  
(Chief Executive)
Graham Blashill  
(to 15 February 2011)
Ken Burnett
Robert Dyrbus
Michael Herlihy
Iain Napier (Chairman)
Ken Burnett
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels
Susan Murray
Berge Setrakian
Mark Williamson
Matthew Phillips (Secretary)
Pierre Jungels (Senior 
Independent Director)
Susan Murray
Berge Setrakian
Mark Williamson
Matthew Phillips 
(Secretary)
Board
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Michael Herlihy (Chairman)
Pierre Jungels
Susan Murray
Mark Williamson
Matthew Phillips (Secretary  
to 7 September 2011)
Trevor Williams (Secretary 
from 7 September 2011)
Mark Williamson (Chairman)
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels
Susan Murray
Matthew Phillips (Secretary)
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders
Board
Nominations 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Annual General 
Meeting
Total number of meetings in Financial Year 6 2 4 4 1
Number of meetings attended in Financial Year
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper 6/6 – – – 1/1
Mr G L Blashill
1
2/2 – – – 1/1
Mr R Dyrbus 6/6 – – – 1/1
Non-Executive Directors
Mr I J G Napier 6/6 2/2 – – 1/1
Dr K M Burnett 6/6 2/2 – – 1/1
Mr M H C Herlihy 6/6 2/2 4/4 4/4 1/1
Dr P H Jungels
2
5/6 2/2 4/4 4/4 1/1
Ms S E Murray 6/6 2/2 4/4 4/4 1/1
Mr B Setrakian 6/6 2/2 – – 1/1
Mr M D Williamson 6/6 2/2 4/4 4/4 1/1
1 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011.
2 Due to prior commitments, Dr P H Jungels was unable to attend one Board meeting which was called at short notice.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
  As part of the Group’s policy of annual  
review, the terms of reference for the 
Nominations, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees were reviewed and, where 
necessary, updated during the year  
and are published on our website,  
www.imperial‑tobacco.com. They are also 
available from the Company Secretary. 50
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Overview
The Operating Executive comprises the Executive Directors 
and key members of our senior management team, meets  
on a monthly basis and is responsible for assisting our Chief 
Executive in developing and implementing our strategy and the 
day‑to‑day management of the Group.
Achievements
During the year the Operating Executive met its responsibilities 
by assisting the Chief Executive in:
 – reviewing and subsequently recommending to the Board 
changes to Group strategy; 
 – ensuring effective implementation of Group strategy;
 – day‑to‑day operational management of the Group within the 
authorities delegated by the Board; 
 – monitoring the detailed operational performance of all aspects 
of the business;
 – risk management and internal control within the framework 
set by the Board;
 – ensuring the Group achieves its financial and  
non‑financial targets;
 – managing day‑to‑day cross functional issues; and 
 – ensuring the use of the Group’s resources are optimised. 
Overview
The Development Executive meets on a monthly basis and 
supports the Chief Executive with the management of key 
planning processes and development activities, including 
evaluating and co‑ordinating business development and 
other development initiatives and managing the corporate 
planning process.
Achievements
During the year the Development Executive met its 
responsibilities by assisting the Chief Executive in:
 – leading the process to define and develop the 
Group’s strategy; 
 – providing specific focus on the planning and business 
development agendas and opportunities for the Group;
 – evaluating regulatory developments; and
 – managing the corporate planning process.
Operating Executive Development Executive
Members
Alison Cooper (Chairman)
Graham Blashill  
(to 15 February 2011)
Robert Dyrbus
Helen Clatworthy (Group Supply 
Chain Director)
Fernando Dominguez (Chief 
Operating Officer Cigar Business)
Roberto Funari (Group Marketing 
Director from 15 November 2010) 
Matthew Phillips (Group Corporate 
and Legal Affairs Director)
Walter Prinz (Group Manufacturing, 
Research & Development Director)
Kathryn Turner (Group Human 
Resources Director)
Arthur van Benthem (Group Sales 
Director from 1 March 2011)
Alison Cooper 
Chief Executive and Chairman of the 
Operating and Development Executives
Members
Alison Cooper (Chairman)
Mike Ashton (Director of  
Business Performance Planning  
and Travel Retail)
Graham Blashill  
(to 15 February 2011)
Roberto Funari (Group Marketing 
Director from 15 November 2010)
Matthew Phillips (Group Corporate 
and Legal Affairs Director)
Claudio Righetti (Director,  
Strategy and Foresight)
Conrad Tate (Corporate  
Development Director)
Arthur van Benthem (Group Sales 
Director from 1 March 2011) 51
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Nominations Committee
Members
Iain Napier (Chairman)
Ken Burnett
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels
Susan Murray
Berge Setrakian
Mark Williamson 
Matthew Phillips (Secretary)
Iain Napier 
Chairman
Overview
The Nominations Committee comprises all our Non‑Executive 
Directors, meets as required, and ensures we have the best 
people on our Board.
Achievements
During the year the Committee met its responsibilities by: 
 – evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience  
of our Board; 
 – developing role specifications; 
 – formulating succession plans; and 
 – making recommendations to the Board with regard to the 
appointment of directors. 
Appointing the best people to our Board, regardless of gender, 
race, religion, age or disability, is crucial. Board appointments 
are made purely on merit so that we have the right skill set 
to build on our long track record of success. We appoint 
individuals from diverse backgrounds to ensure the Board  
has a wide range of business and financial expertise. 
Main Activities During the Year 
Following a rigorous process, including the identification of the 
desired skills and experience, the instruction of an external 
consultant, consideration of candidates against the required  
skills and formal interviews, the Committee recommended the 
appointment of Mr Wyman as a Non‑Executive Director. 
The Committee also considered and recommended to the 
Board the acceptance of the retirements of Mr Blashill and 
Dr Jungels.
Board Changes
We continually review the composition and balance of our  
Board to ensure we have the right structure, skills and  
expertise in place for the effective management of our 
multinational business. 
Mr Blashill retired as a Director on 2 February 2011 but 
remained an employee until 15 February 2011 to assist in the 
smooth handover of his sales and marketing responsibilities.
Mr Wyman was appointed as a Non‑Executive Director with 
effect from 3 October 2011.
Dr Jungels, our Senior Independent Director, will be retiring from 
the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) and will not be seeking re‑election.
Re-election of Directors
Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation 
by the Nominations Committee, all Directors are appointed 
by the Board and are subject to annual re‑election  
by shareholders.
Before recommending such re‑election the performance of each 
Director is considered as part of the annual evaluation of the 
Board. Following the 2011 evaluation the Board recommends 
the re‑election of all Directors who are standing for re‑election 
at our 2012 AGM.
We recognise that a number of shareholders have expressed 
concern that annual re‑election of Directors could encourage  
them to take a short‑term view. We are, however, confident that 
our remuneration policies encourage Directors to act in the best 
long‑term interests of stakeholders, for example through bonus 
targets and claw back provisions, the long‑term focus of our 
remuneration strategy and shareholding requirements.
The composition, skill set and balance of our Board, together 
with the length of service of each Director, is reviewed regularly 
to identify the skills required of future directors. 
“ We are confident the Directors have  
the skills and expertise to successfully 
deliver our strategy.”
Iain Napier, Chairman
  The Committee’s terms of reference 
are published on our website,  
www.imperial‑tobacco.com.  
They are also available from the 
Company Secretary.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
2
2
3
8 and
over years
3 to 4 years
5 to 7 years 52
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Audit Committee
Members
Mark Williamson, CA (SA) 
(Chairman)
Michael Herlihy 
Pierre Jungels
Susan Murray
Matthew Phillips (Secretary)
Mark Williamson 
Chairman
Overview
The Audit Committee oversees our financial reporting and 
internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with 
our Auditors. 
Structure
The Audit Committee comprises four Independent  
Non‑Executive Directors. Mr Williamson is a qualified  
accountant and, therefore, we met the requirements of the  
Code and the Committee’s terms of reference that at least  
one of its members is a financial expert. 
The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head 
of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other 
financial managers are invited to attend each meeting of the 
Committee. The Head of Group Compliance meets formally with 
the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager 
being present, at each meeting. Our Auditors also attend each 
meeting and have the opportunity to meet Committee members 
without any Executive Director or other manager present. 
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of 
the Board performance evaluation process, the outcome of 
which was that it continues to operate effectively.
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include:
 – approval of accounting policies; 
 – reviewing financial statements and announcements; 
 – overseeing the Group’s internal control processes; 
 – appointment of Auditors and monitoring their performance 
and independence; and 
 – overseeing our public interest disclosure  
(whistleblowing) policy.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual 
Report and Accounts, our Audit Committee achieved its 
responsibilities by working with a structured agenda of matters 
focused to coincide with key events of our financial reporting 
cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is 
required to consider at each meeting. 
The Audit Committee met its responsibilities by:
 – approving our accounting policies;
 – monitoring and reviewing the integrity of our financial 
statements and any announcements or judgements they 
contain including our Half Yearly Report and Annual Report 
and Accounts and recommending that these be approved 
by our Board;
 – receiving reports from, and questioning, members of  
Group Compliance, Group Finance and other functions.  
This provides the Committee with the information required to 
oversee our systems of internal control for financial reporting, 
internal control policies, corporate governance procedures, 
the system of risk management and to assess the review and 
mitigation of associated risks;
 – reviewing the Auditors’ presentation of their proposed audit 
plan, fee proposal and confirmation of their independence. 
This, together with management’s assessment of the 
Auditors’ effectiveness and independence, allows the 
Committee to establish the scope, effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity of our Auditors and, if 
appropriate, recommend their re‑appointment to the Board;
 – receiving and, after due consideration, approving Group 
Compliance’s proposed work plan and compliance 
programme for the year. Reports from Group Compliance  
are then used to monitor the performance and effectiveness  
of controls operating throughout the business; 
 – overseeing our public interest disclosure (whistleblowing) 
policy by receiving reports of its distribution through our 
non‑financial reporting system and receiving reports in 
respect of all disclosures made via the policy;
 – consideration of management’s report that there were no 
material related party matters; and
 – consideration of the accounting treatment relating to on‑going 
enquiries detailed on pages 58 and 59.
Accountability and Audit 
Overview
Our Board members recognise their responsibilities to ensure 
that the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and 
understandable assessments of the Company’s position are 
met and they are satisfied these responsibilities are achieved 
through our financial systems and internal control processes. 
During the year these responsibilities were met by:
 – using an appropriate system of accounting records operating 
in compliance with local and international financial and  
legal reporting requirements. The basis used to prepare our 
Group financial statements is the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union. Our parent company financial statements and 
our Directors’ Remuneration Report are prepared in 
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP);
 – using IFRS to ensure we give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group, including our profit or loss 
for the period; 53
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
 – deploying appropriate accounting policies within 
the framework of IFRS and ensuring these are 
consistently applied;
 – making judgements and preparing estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 – operating within the guidelines of all the disclosure 
advice provided by UK and international statute;
 – disclosing that the business is a going concern; and
 – maintaining robust assurance processes and controls 
over our financial reporting procedures, including suitable 
Disclosure Committee, Audit Committee and Board reviews.
Internal Control
Several on‑going activities, which satisfy the requirements of the 
Code, reassure our Board that a sound and robust system of 
internal control exists throughout our Group.
The Board recognises that we operate in an environment with 
some unavoidable risks (see pages 16 to 19) and ensures  
these risks are properly understood and suitably managed, 
either directly or by exercising oversight of the internal control 
framework detailed below. The analysis of risk and oversight 
of the resulting internal control measures taken to mitigate  
the effects of such risks are essential in enabling the Board  
to discharge its responsibilities to safeguard shareholders’ 
investments, protect our assets and provide reliable financial 
information. Given the size and complexity of the Group  
such systems can provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance of meeting our internal control objectives, as they 
manage rather than eliminate risk. They can, therefore, only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Internal Control Framework
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s 
systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
We operate a robust control environment, the key features  
of which are outlined in the above chart and detailed in the 
paragraphs below.
Terms of Reference
Clear terms of reference govern the operation of our Board. 
A key control within the terms of reference is ensuring that only 
the Board can approve certain significant items. Our Board  
has established appropriate Committees, which also operate 
within clearly defined terms of reference, to oversee our control 
activities. These committees include an Audit Committee,  
a Disclosure Committee and a Risk Co‑ordination Committee. 
Our Board and Committee processes, together with those 
embedded in the business, are fundamental to the effectiveness 
of our internal control measures and the delivery of the 
appropriate degree of control.
Organisational Structure
The Board regularly reviews the Group’s organisational  
structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility  
with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of 
duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place  
to fulfil their roles. The aim of such delegated authority is that 
decisions, significant because of either their value or impact  
on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level. 
The Group’s Treasury, Tax and Occupational Health, Safety  
and Environmental policies are also regularly reviewed by the 
Board. The Group’s Treasury function operates within a well 
defined policy and framework designed to manage the Group’s 
financing and liquidity arrangements and to manage its exposure 
to, amongst others, treasury risks and interest rate and foreign 
exchange risks. In addition, the Group operates well defined 
procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital 
and strategic expenditure, including acquisitions.
Commercial Integrity
Our Commercial Integrity Department, together with the Group 
Company Secretariat, supports our framework of policies and 
procedures, with which all employees are expected to comply. 
Group Policies and Standards cover responsible operation of 
the Group in terms of commercial, employment, manufacturing 
and trading practices. 
We thoroughly investigate all allegations of misconduct  
and irregularity and consider the implications for our  
control environment. 
Code of Conduct and Policies
Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards of responsible 
behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow.
The Code of Conduct has been rolled out to our senior 
management population in a series of face to face workshops. 
The roll‑out continues to be progressed with further face to face 
workshops, prioritisation of risk topics, development of the 
supporting e‑learning system and communication to the wider 
employee population. 
Matters reserved for the Board and Committees’ T erms of Reference
Organisational 
structure
Commercial 
Integrity
Risk  
Co-ordination 
Committee/
risk 
assessment 
summaries
Year end 
certification
Internal 
control 
questionnaires
Group  
Finance
Disclosure  
Committee
Internal Control Framework
Group 
Compliance
Code of 
Conduct  
and  
Policies 54
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The Code of Conduct is aligned with our long established  
and embedded policies that provide guidance for business 
integrity, responsible commercial practice, trust, respect  
and responsibility.
Risk Co‑ordination Committee/Risk Assessment Summaries
Our Risk Co‑ordination Committee (RCC) assists the  
Operating Executive and the Audit Committee in overseeing  
the management of material risk to the Group. The RCC 
comprises senior managers representing a cross section  
of the Group’s functions.
During the course of the year the RCC has continued to develop 
our risk register by identifying, assessing and monitoring the key 
risks we face and how such risks are mitigated and managed.
This top‑down approach is complemented by a bottom‑up 
approach requiring individual markets, factories, regions  
and functions across the Group to produce annual risk 
assessment summaries which are compared to the Group  
risk register. These rolling risk assessment summaries identify 
major areas of business risk including any specific local risks 
and demonstrate how these are mitigated and managed by 
controls embedded in business processes. 
Further detail on the risks we face and how we manage them 
can be found on pages 16 to 19.
Year End Certification
Our year end certification process requires each of our business 
entities to confirm compliance with our policies and fraud 
prevention processes, and that risk mitigation controls have 
operated effectively throughout the year. All our senior managers 
are also required to certify that there have been no related party 
transactions within their areas of control.
Internal Control Questionnaires
Each of our business entities is required to maintain a suite 
of internal control questionnaires (ICQs) based on templates 
produced by Group Compliance. Management within each 
business entity is required to continually update the ICQs 
detailing the internal control processes in operation within  
that entity. 
These ICQs form the basis of periodic reviews by Group 
Compliance who ensure that appropriate controls are operating 
in practice and provide adequate protection for the business. 
Group Finance
Our Group Finance Department sets financial policies and 
standards. It also manages our financial reporting processes to 
ensure the timely and accurate provision of information which 
enables our Board to discharge its responsibilities, including  
the production of our Half Yearly and Annual Accounts. It is 
supported by a network of finance managers throughout the 
Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide 
information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal 
best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
Monitoring of our financial position is based on our strategic and 
operational plans (the Plans) which we use to identify specific 
targets and objectives.
Throughout the year we produce ‘latest estimates’ to predict the 
likely year end position. The latest estimates are compared with 
the Plans and enable us to monitor and check our performance 
and, where appropriate, challenge sections of the business if 
actual or anticipated performance varies from the Plans.
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee comprises senior management from 
across our business and meets, as required, in order to consider 
major financial disclosures.
During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all major 
financial disclosures including Trading Updates, Interim 
Management Statements, Half Yearly Report, Annual  
Report and Accounts and appropriate corporate financing 
documentation. To meet its responsibilities when reviewing 
these major financial disclosures, the Committee members 
made enquiries into all aspects of the business which, together 
with their own business knowledge, ensured disclosures were 
complete with no material issues omitted. The Committee 
reported on its reviews to our Senior Officers and, where 
appropriate, our Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were 
reviewed during the year to ensure they continued to be 
appropriate.
Group Compliance
Our Group Compliance Department monitors and measures 
the mitigation of risks across the Group in addition to performing 
its internal audit role. It follows best practice guidance including 
the Code.
Group Compliance undertakes a programme of reviews 
covering all our business entities on an annual, three or five 
yearly cycle dependent upon materiality and perceived risk. 
These include both targeted scheduled and ad hoc reviews 
based on our ICQs. 
Each review results in a report to local management identifying 
any potential control weaknesses which the business entity is 
responsible for remediating. The most significant potential 
weaknesses are also elevated to the Operating Executive to 
monitor the remediation undertaken by management of the 
business entity. At each year end Group Compliance also 
conducts a review of risk assessments submitted by all markets, 
factories, regions and functions across the Group and obtains 
certificates of confirmation from local management teams that 
appropriate internal controls and processes have been operating 
within their businesses throughout the year.
To support the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the 
effectiveness of internal controls, Group Compliance formally 
reports to the Audit Committee on the outcome of its on‑going 
activities, including its programme of compliance reviews and 
any more general business reviews. This process ensures  
that the Audit Committee remains satisfied that the Group’s 
exposure to major business risks is minimised and the levels 
of retained risk are acceptable. 
The above processes, together with reports from Group 
Compliance, enable the Board, either directly or through the 
Audit Committee, to regularly review the effectiveness of the 
key procedures which have been established in order to provide 
appropriate internal controls. 
The Board confirms that an on‑going process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the Group’s significant risks has 
operated throughout the year and up to the date of the  
approval of this Annual Report and Accounts in accordance  
with the requirements of the Code and Turnbull guidance.  55
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
External Audit
Auditor Independence Policy
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of 
our Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor 
Independence Policy. This policy provides clear definitions 
of services that our Auditors can and cannot provide. Our 
Auditors may only provide non‑audit services where those 
services do not conflict with their independence, for example 
tax compliance work. The policy also establishes a formal 
authorisation process, including the tendering for non‑audit 
services expected to generate fees in excess of £250,000, and 
pre‑approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non‑audit 
work that they may perform. Our policy also establishes 
guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees 
of our Auditors and for the recruitment of our employees by the 
Auditors. Details of the audit and non‑audit fees paid to the 
Auditors are shown on page 90.
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year our  
Audit Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration 
received by our Auditors for audit services, audit‑related services 
and non‑audit work. The outcome of these reviews was that 
performance of the relevant non‑audit work by our Auditors was 
in compliance with the policy and was the most cost‑effective 
way of conducting our business. No conflicts of interest were 
found to exist between such audit and non‑audit work which 
principally related to tax advisory work. The Audit Committee 
confirms that we continue to receive an efficient, effective and 
independent audit service.
Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities
Our statutory Auditors are responsible for forming an 
independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group  
as a whole and on the financial statements of Imperial Tobacco 
Group PLC as presented by the Directors, on other elements  
of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or 
regulation and for reporting their opinion to members (page 76).
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) have been the Company’s 
Auditors since its demerger in 1996. The Audit Committee, 
following a review during the year, remains satisfied with the 
effectiveness and independence of PwC. It has not, therefore, 
considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to 
tender. In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group 
Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years 
(seven years for subsidiary companies). There are no contractual 
or similar obligations restricting the Group’s choice of auditors.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report and Accounts confirms that:
 – so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
(that is, information needed by the Company’s Auditors in 
connection with preparing their report) of which the 
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and 
 – each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
Auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company will 
be proposed at the AGM.
Relations with Shareholders
Dialogue with our shareholders is given the highest priority. We 
aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications 
which allow our shareholders to understand how we see our 
prospects and the market environments in which we operate.
Communication with Shareholders
The primary means of communication with the majority of our 
shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly 
Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 
Statements and Trading Updates. These are supported by a 
combination of presentations, conference calls, one‑to‑one 
meetings and investor meetings in the UK, Europe and America. 
We have also attended numerous investor conferences, where 
we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders 
and potential shareholders.
Proactively Engaging with Shareholders 
In July 2011 over 50 investors, potential investors and  
analysts attended an investor day held in the UK giving them  
the opportunity to meet members of the Board and senior 
management. Presentations were given by the Chief Executive, 
Finance Director, Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, 
Group Marketing Director and Group Sales Director. The theme 
of the day was ‘Unlocking our Potential’ with a particular focus 
on our four sales growth drivers and how they, coupled with our 
high margins, help drive sustainable shareholder returns.
During the year our Chairman, Senior Independent Director  
and the Remuneration Committee Chairman met with a  
number of key shareholders. Further, when requested, we  
met with shareholder representative bodies on significant issues 
of interest and with corporate governance representatives  
of investors. 
Through an external consultancy we undertook our annual 
perception study of institutional investors’ views of our business. 
Together, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and 
Director of Investor Communications ensured the Board was 
fully briefed on shareholders’ views to ensure that any issues or 
concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board. 
Annual General Meeting
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual 
Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their 
proxy votes, the documents are made available more than 
20 working days prior to the meeting.
We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy 
votes either electronically or in paper format. We also offer them 
the facility to abstain. 
At the AGM, our Chairman and Chief Executive give 
presentations on our performance and current business 
activities and all Directors make themselves available to meet 
shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business.
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings 
separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all 
resolutions are put to a poll. At the AGM the number of proxy 
votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are 
displayed. Votes received at the meeting are added to the proxy 
votes and the final results published through a Regulatory 
Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
At our 2011 AGM we received votes representing approximately 
74 per cent of our issued share capital (excluding shares held 
in treasury). 56
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 1 February 2012.  
Full details are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on 
our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
Share Capital
Details of our share capital are shown in Note 20 to the  
Financial Statements (page 118). All shares other than those 
held in treasury are freely transferable and rank pari passu for 
voting and dividend rights. 
At our AGM on 2 February 2011 shareholder authority for the 
buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence 
each was obtained. 
As at 30 September 2011 we held 57,007,000 of our ordinary 
shares in treasury, which represent 5.3 per cent of issued share 
capital and have an aggregate nominal value of £5,700,700.  
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 
shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and 
they represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. 
Treasury shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
At 31 October 2011 we had been notified of the following 
interests in 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
Number of 
ordinary shares  
(millions)
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
Invesco Limited 61 6.03
1
BlackRock Inc 53 5.25
2
Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Limited 42 4.17
1
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04
2
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 41 3.99
1
1 Direct holding.
2 Indirect holding.
We have not received notification that any other person holds  
3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any 
connected persons are shown on page 64. Other than 
disclosed on page 57, there are no agreements between  
the Company and its Directors or employees providing  
for compensation for loss of office or employment due to 
a takeover.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is 
given in Note 4 to the Financial Statements (page 91) and in  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Financial Results and Dividends
We include a review of our operational and financial 
performance, current position and future developments in  
our Directors’ Report: Strategy, Risks, Performance and 
Governance sections on pages 8 to 74.
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company  
for the financial year was £1,796 million, as shown in our 
consolidated income statement on page 77. Note 1 to the 
Financial Statements gives an analysis of revenue and profit 
from operations (page 88). 
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet on page 79 and the related Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows:
£ million 2011 2010
Ordinary Shares
Interim paid, 28.1p per share  
(2010: 24.3p) 284 246
Proposed final, 67.0p per share 
(2010: 60.0p) 674 609
Total ordinary dividends, 95.1p  
(2010: 84.3p) 958 855
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2012 
to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close 
of business on 20 January 2012. The associated ex dividend 
date will be 18 January 2012. We paid an interim dividend on 
19 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 22 July 2011.
Relations with Other Stakeholders
Charitable and Political Donations
We continue to support the communities in which we operate 
by allocating £3 million (2010: £3 million) to partnership 
investment. From this figure, we have donated £0.2 million 
(2010: £0.2 million) to UK registered charities operating in the 
UK, £0.3 million (2010: £0.3 million) to UK registered charities 
operating abroad and £1.3 million (2010: £1.3 million) through 
the UK Charities Aid Foundation to charities based overseas.
No political donations were made to EU political parties, 
organisations or candidates (2010: Nil).
Creditor Payment Policy
Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority  
of our trade creditors is to follow the Prompt Payment Code 
sponsored by the Department for Business, Innovation and  
Skills (copies are available from the Prompt Payment Code 
website at www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk). For other 
suppliers, our policy is to:
 – agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction;
 – ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of 
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
 – pay in accordance with our contractual and other 
legal obligations.
This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue 
and capital supplies of goods and services without exception. 
Wherever possible, UK subsidiaries follow the same policy  
and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar 
policies by applying local best practices.
The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 
2011 was equivalent to 40 days (2010: 43 days) of trade purchases.
Employees
Our employees are key to our on‑going success. Our 
employment policies aim to attract the very best people. 
By applying universally accepted standards for human rights  
we ensure they are treated with fairness, dignity and respect. 
This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and  
giving fair consideration to applications for employment,  
career development and promotion, without having regard  
to an employee’s gender, race, religion, age or disability.   57
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
These policies also cover the continuation of employment and 
appropriate training for employees who become disabled during 
their employment. Our policies ensure that candidates are 
chosen on merit which involves the consideration of women for 
all positions within the organisation.
To ensure employees can share in our success we offer 
competitive pay and benefit packages linked, wherever possible, 
to performance. Employees are encouraged to build a stake  
in the Company through ownership of the Company’s shares, 
with a number of employee share plans offered during the year.
We encourage all areas of our business to keep employees 
informed of the financial and economic factors affecting 
our performance. More information on our employees is 
included on page 91.
Our annual talent review process is designed to identify the 
most capable successors for critical roles at all levels in our 
business. It is a bottom‑up process initiated at a local level 
and rolled up through our regions and business units. This 
culminates in a final talent review meeting conducted by the 
Operating Executive. This is a practice that is embedded across 
the Group and seeks to provide a continuous talent pipeline.
Pension Fund
Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is 
not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board 
of which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, 
one director chosen by employees and two by current and 
deferred pensioners. This trustee company looks after the 
assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those 
of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers. 
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with 
the fund’s rules and for no other purpose. Further details are 
contained in our Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74.
Other Information
Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or 
Terminate on Change of Control
The following agreements, summarised below, are those which 
we consider to be significant to the Group as a whole and which 
contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to 
terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following 
a takeover bid.
Some companies within the Group entered into a credit facilities 
agreement (the Agreement) on 16 December 2010 under which 
certain banks and financial institutions (the Lenders) made 
available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco 
Enterprise Finance Limited committed and uncommitted credit 
facilities. The Agreement provides that, unless the Lenders 
otherwise agree, if any person or group of associated persons 
acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the 
votes at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial Tobacco 
Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited 
must repay each loan utilised by them under the Agreement 
and the total commitments under the Agreement will be 
immediately cancelled. 
Some companies within the Group entered into a letter of credit 
facility agreement (the Letter of Credit) dated 2 March 2011 
under which the Lenders made available to Imperial Tobacco 
Limited a Letter of Credit. The Letter of Credit provides that, 
unless the Lenders agree, if any person or group of associated 
persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent 
of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial 
Tobacco Limited must repay the Letter of Credit utilised by it 
under the Letter of Credit and the total commitments under the 
Letter of Credit will be immediately cancelled.
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC (the Issuer) has issued bonds 
under the Euro Medium Term Notes Debt Issuance Programme 
(as noted below). The Company acted as guarantor. The final 
terms of this series of notes contain change of control provisions 
under which the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier 
exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the 
Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s option, purchase that note at 
its nominal value if: (a) any person, persons acting in concert or 
on behalf of any such person(s) becomes interested in: (i) more 
than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital 
of the Company; or (ii) such number of shares in the capital of 
the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights 
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company;  
and (b) as a result of the change of control, there is either: (i) a 
reduction to a non‑investment grade rating or withdrawal of the 
investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, 
reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during 
the change of control period specified in the final terms; or (ii) to 
the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change 
of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit 
rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result 
of the change of control.
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows:
 – 15 September 2008 £600,000,000 8.125 per cent 
guaranteed notes due 2024;
 – 15 September 2008 €750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2014;
 – 17 February 2009 £1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2022;
 – 17 February 2009 €1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2016; 
 – 24 June 2009 £500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2019; 
 – 24 June 2009 €1,250,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2012; 
 – 5 July 2011 €850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2018; and
 – 26 September 2011 £500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2026.
Research and Development
We support our sales growth strategy by our investment 
in research and development, which brings innovative 
improvements to the Group both in the products supplied to  
our consumers and in production and marketing techniques.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – the Directors’ Report: Strategy, Risk, Performance and 
Governance sections on pages 8 to 74 includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 58
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance Report continued
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Business Review
A review of the Group’s activities and future developments is 
included in the Directors’ Report: Strategy, Risk, Performance 
and Governance sections. This review fulfils the requirements  
of the Business Review contained in section 417 of the Act, 
including the financial performance during the year on pages  
30 to 32, key performance indicators on pages 11 to 13 and  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group on pages 16 to 19. 
The purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts is to provide 
information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC. 
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers 
do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person  
to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it  
may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain 
forward‑looking statements with respect to the operations, 
performance and financial condition of the Company and the 
Group as a whole. By their nature, these statements involve 
uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause 
actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and  
no reliance should be placed on them. The forward‑looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available at  
the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts  
and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward‑looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report  
and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown 
on pages 129 and 130.
Going Concern
In order to satisfy themselves that we have adequate resources 
for the future, the Audit Committee and, subsequently, the 
Board reviewed the Group’s committed funding and liquidity 
positions, its ability to generate cash from trading activities and 
its ability to raise external funding in the future. Our performance, 
as described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 32, our 
future plans and the risks we face (as described in the Chief 
Executive’s Review on pages 8 to 10) were also reviewed.
In performing their reviews, the Audit Committee and the  
Board have acknowledged the current level of uncertainty in  
the financial markets and have considered various sensitivity 
analyses when assessing the forecast funding and headroom 
requirements of the Group.
Consequently, based on the reviews noted above the Audit 
Committee recommended to the Board that the Group as  
a whole and Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have adequate 
resources to meet their operational needs for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Update on On-going Enquiries
German Investigations
Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities 
in January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related 
violations by a number of people, including Reemtsma 
employees, during a period prior to its acquisition by 
Imperial Tobacco Group in May 2002. A Board Committee 
established in 2003 remains in place to monitor the progress 
of the investigations and the Group’s responses on behalf 
of the Board. 
Between 2005 and 2007, the investigations against all but five 
of the individuals were terminated, either for lack of evidence  
or on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities. 
Settlement was made at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco  
Group of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities 
being investigated. 
In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were  
brought in connection with one of the investigations against  
18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.  
In October 2008, the German court agreed to open trial in 
relation to these charges and has made various procedural 
decisions, but no final hearing has yet been held.
In November 2006, in connection with a separate investigation, 
charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act 
were brought against four other former Reemtsma employees. 
In March 2010, in accordance with an agreement with the 
authorities, the individuals pleaded guilty and financial penalties 
were ordered against them and Reemtsma. These were paid at 
no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group. 
Office of Fair Trading
As previously reported, in 2003 the UK Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) informed Imperial Tobacco Group that it had commenced 
an investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the 
operation of the UK tobacco supply chain. 
On 24 April 2008, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections 
(SO) which set out the OFT’s allegations against Imperial 
Tobacco Group, Gallaher, and a number of retailers.  
These alleged infringements relate to the period prior to 2004.
On 15 April 2010, the OFT reached a Decision. Although 
the OFT dropped a number of the allegations made in the 
SO, it found that Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher had 
separately engaged in unlawful practices with 10 tobacco 
retailers in breach of Chapter I of the Competition Act 1998. 
The OFT imposed total fines of £225m on the parties involved, 
including a fine of £112.3m on Imperial Tobacco Group.
Under the Competition Act 1998, parties have the right to 
appeal OFT Decisions to the Competition Appeal Tribunal  
(CAT), and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal. 
The CAT has jurisdiction to conduct a full rehearing of the facts 
and has the power to uphold, vary or quash the Decision and 
the fine imposed.
Imperial Tobacco Group does not accept the findings in the 
OFT’s Decision. Accordingly, Imperial Tobacco Group submitted 
an appeal to the CAT on 15 June 2010 against the OFT’s 
findings of infringement and the level of the fine. Five retailers 
(Asda, the Co‑operative Group, Morrisons (together with 
Safeway) and Shell) have also appealed against the Decision 
and the fines imposed on them by the OFT.
Although the CAT began hearing these appeals on  
21 September 2011, it is unlikely that the CAT will deliver 
judgment on liability before the second quarter of 2012 at the 
earliest, while any subsequent appeal to the Court of Appeal 
that may be necessary is unlikely to be determined before the 
fourth quarter of 2012.
Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation
We are not facing any tobacco‑related litigation in the UK. In the 
Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco‑related claims has 
fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11. Ten of these claims are subject  
to dismissal motions. The other claim is inactive. The dismissal 
motion in respect of one claimant was heard by the Dublin  
High Court in 2006. In April 2007, the court ruled that this  
claim should be dismissed. This Decision has been appealed 
and the dismissal motions in respect of the nine other active 
claims have been stayed pending the appeal. No date has  
been set for the appeal hearing but it is expected to be within 
the next six months. 59
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are 
currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative 
Court on behalf of the Regional Government of Andalucia for 
reimbursement of hospitalisation expenses allegedly incurred in 
treating smokers. The claim was served on Altadis in July 2009. 
In May 2010 preliminary objections were filed by Altadis and the 
other tobacco company defendants. These were rejected by the 
Court in May 2011 but the proceedings remain stayed until the 
co‑defendants are provided with a full set of the documentation 
which was attached to the claim. 
We are not facing any claims in France. Following our acquisition 
of Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing two claims in 
Italy. One is at an initial stage and the other has been dismissed 
but appealed. 
A purported collective claim was filed against us (and other 
tobacco companies) by an individual in Bulgaria in March 2008 
but we were never formally served with any court documents. 
Following a hearing on 18 November 2010, the Sofia City Court 
ruled that the conditions for bringing a collective action had not 
been satisfied by the Claimant and refused to allow the claim to 
proceed. That decision was affirmed by the Appellate Court and 
by the Supreme Court of Cassation.
In September 2009 an individual claim was brought against us 
(and others) in Turkey. We filed a statement of defence at a 
preliminary hearing on 3 November 2009. The Claimant failed  
to pay the necessary Court charges and on 29 November 2010 
the Court ordered that the claim be deemed never to have been 
filed. The Claimant has not appealed this Decision and the time 
for any appeal has expired.
Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 
2007, we are currently facing one claim brought by an  
individual in the United States. A motion for summary judgment 
was filed by Commonwealth Brands in October 2005 and  
remains pending.
We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued  
legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco 
companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical 
care to individuals. No Imperial Tobacco Group company has 
been served with any court documents in relation to this claim. 
We understand that the Ministry of Health sought a six month 
stay of proceedings at a hearing on 11 December 2010 and  
has not applied for the case to be reopened following the expiry 
of that stay. The Ministry of Health may still apply to reopen the 
case but we are not aware that it intends to do so.
To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of 
any claimant in any tobacco‑related litigation against Imperial 
Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries. Imperial Tobacco has been 
advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the 
legal proceedings set out above. We will continue to vigorously 
contest all such litigation against us.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the 
parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and 
the parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom GAAP (United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and Applicable Law). Under company law, the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the Group and parent Company financial statements 
respectively; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 45, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
 – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group; and
 – the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Matthew Phillips
1 November 2011
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
60
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Remuneration Committee
Members
Michael Herlihy (Chairman from  
2 February 2011) 
Pierre Jungels (Chairman to  
2 February 2011)
Susan Murray
Mark Williamson
Matthew Phillips (Secretary to  
7 September 2011)
Trevor Williams (Secretary from  
7 September 2011)
Michael Herlihy 
Chairman
Overview
Within an increasingly demanding, competitive and international 
environment we want our employees to be fairly compensated 
and incentivised to deliver our strategy. We recognise that  
we need to achieve a balance between the interests of our 
shareholders and employees. As a result, Executive Director and 
senior management rewards are weighted towards long-term 
performance related elements.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2012 the overall 
structure of the Group’s remuneration policy will remain 
unchanged. The Remuneration Committee is, however, 
undertaking a review of the overall remuneration philosophy  
of the Group.
We have prepared this Report in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and Statutory Instrument 
2008/410 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations).  
It also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (the DTRs) of the UK Listing 
Authority. In this Report we describe how the principles of good 
governance relating to directors’ remuneration, as set out in  
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), are applied  
in practice. The Committee confirms that throughout the  
year it has complied with these governance rules and best 
practice provisions. 
The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders 
on the audited information within this Report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been 
prepared in accordance with the Act. The Auditors’ opinion is 
set out on page 76 and we have clearly marked the audited 
sections of the Report.
Responsibilities and Main Achievements in 2011
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for 
executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to 
the Remuneration Committee. Clear written terms of reference, 
which can be found on our website www.imperial-tobacco.com, 
govern the way the Committee operates. 
Our Committee’s principal function is to determine the 
Company’s Remuneration Policy, described in more detail 
below, together with the specific remuneration package for  
each Executive Director and our most senior executives, 
including their service contracts and pension arrangements.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board in respect of our Chairman’s fees, setting  
targets for the performance related elements of remuneration 
packages, oversight of our overall policy for senior management 
remuneration and oversight of our employee share plans.
The Committee meets its responsibilities by:
 – ensuring remuneration arrangements align with our values, 
support our evolving corporate strategy (with its focus on 
sales growth) and drive performance, as measured by our 
financial and non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs), 
see pages 11 to 13;
 – maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate  
to the business environment of the countries in which we 
operate; and
 – aligning senior executives’ remuneration with the interests  
of shareholders by balancing financial and non-financial 
elements and ensuring that remuneration is fair whilst not 
being excessive.
Our Committee addressed the following main issues during 
the year:
 – the succession of a new Committee chairman;
 – consideration of our Remuneration Policy for 
Executive Directors;
 – commencing the review of the Group’s overall  
remuneration philosophy;
 – the structure of the remuneration packages of a number  
of senior management appointments; 
 – the annual review of the Chairman’s, Executive Directors’ 
and our most senior executives’ remuneration, including  
base pay;
 – reviewing bonus targets and confirming the claw back 
provisions detailed in last year’s Remuneration Report;
 – following shareholder consultation, confirming increases 
in executive bonus levels and amendments to the share 
matching scheme (SMS) performance criterion which were 
disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report;
 – overseeing our Remuneration Policy and employee  
share plans; 
 – conducting a tendering exercise for the role of the 
Committee’s independent advisers;
 – undertaking the annual review of the Committee’s Terms 
of Reference; and
 – the disclosures in this Report.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
61
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Membership and Advice
Our Remuneration Committee met four times during the year. 
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors, which 
we see as important in ensuring Executive Directors’ and  
senior executives’ remuneration is set by people who are 
independent and have no personal financial interest, other  
than as shareholders, in the matters discussed. 
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each 
Committee meeting allows the members to meet without the 
Company Chairman, any Executive Director or other manager 
being present. 
Mr I J G Napier (Company Chairman), Mrs A J Cooper (Chief 
Executive) and Mr R Dyrbus (Finance Director) were consulted 
and invited to attend where appropriate. Mr M R Phillips  
(Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director and Company 
Secretary) also attended as secretary to the Committee  
until the Committee’s meeting on 7 September 2011 when  
Mr T M Williams (Deputy Company Secretary) succeeded  
him as secretary to the Committee.
Mrs K A Turner (Group Human Resources Director), the  
Group Compensation and Benefits Manager and the Deputy 
Company Secretary also attended and provided internal  
support and advice on market and regulatory developments  
in remuneration practice and our employee share plans.  
In addition, their attendance ensures that the Committee is  
kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which  
it then takes into account when determining the remuneration  
of the Executive Directors.
No-one is allowed to participate in any matter directly 
concerning the details of their own remuneration or conditions  
of service. 
Following a tendering process, Aon Hewitt Limited, with a  
new team, (operating through the brand New Bridge Street),  
was reappointed as the Committee’s principal external adviser 
to review our remuneration principles and practices against 
corporate governance best practice and help us adhere to  
our Remuneration Policy. Aon Hewitt Limited is a signatory to 
the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Advisers. New Bridge 
Street also presented a review of developments in UK corporate 
governance to keep Committee members up-to-date with new 
developments and evolving best practice. 
Aon Hewitt Limited assisted the Group in respect of the  
triennial valuation of its UK pension fund, assisted with our 
employee engagement survey and acts as insurance brokers  
to the Group. The Committee is, however, satisfied that the 
provision by Aon Hewitt Limited of those other services in no 
way compromises the position of New Bridge Street as the 
Committee’s independent advisers.
Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Watson is 
used for benchmarking purposes to ensure the consistent 
application of our Remuneration Policy. 
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP and Ashurst LLP provide services 
to the Remuneration Committee as and when required.  
They both provide other legal services to the Group. Allen & 
Overy are also retained by the Company to provide legal advice 
on our employee share plans. 
The Company retains Alithos Limited to undertake total 
shareholder return (TSR) calculations and provide advice  
on all TSR related matters. Alithos Limited provides no  
other services for the Group.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), our Auditors, perform 
agreed upon procedures on earnings per share (EPS) 
calculations used in relation to our employee share plans’ 
performance criteria.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
62
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Directors’ Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2011 (Audited)
£’000 2011 2010
Executive Directors
Base salary 1,602 2,414
Benefits 47 75
Pension salary supplement 296 276
Bonus 913 2,769
LTIP annual vesting
1
1,058 3,454
SMS annual vesting
2
701 1,183
4,617 10,171
Non-Executive Directors
Fees 883 1,061
Benefits – 33
Consultancy fees – 442
883 1,536
Former Executive Directors
Salary of former Executive Director 21 75
Bonus of former Executive Director 7 77
Consultancy fees to former Executive Directors – 106
Subsidiary Board fees 10 43
Benefits 1 2
39 303
Fees of former Non-Executive Directors
Subsidiary Board fees 5 28
5 28
Total remuneration 5,544 12,038
Operating Executive (excluding Executive Directors)
Base salary 2,227 1,583
Benefits 196 141
Pension salary supplement 132 110
Bonus 911 1,079
LTIP annual vesting
1
309 439
SMS annual vesting
2
548 360
4,323 3,712
1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying 
services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges was £11,449,359 (2010: £17,274,754). During the year the  
Sales & Marketing Director retired from the Board and separate Sales and Marketing Directors were appointed to the Operating Executive.
Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2011 (Audited)
£’000 2011 2010
Short-term employee benefits 6,807 9,595
Post employment benefits 952 636 
Other long-term benefits – –
Termination benefits – –
Share-based payment (in accordance with IAS 24) 6,741 4,043
14,500 14,274
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
63
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Emoluments by Individual Director (Audited)
£’000
Base 
salary Fees
Subsidiary 
board  
fees Bonus
Pension 
salary
supplement
1
Benefits
in kind
2
 
Sub 
total  
2011
Sub 
total 
2010 LTIP
3
SMS
3
Total 
2011
Total 
2010 
Base 
salary/ 
fees from 
1/10/2011
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper, 
Chief Executive 800 – – 530 71 16 1,417 1,459 263 225 1,905 1,923 860
Mr R Dyrbus,  
Finance Director 642 – – 319 225 26 1,212 1,657 535 476 2,223 2,844 655
Mr G L Blashill
4
, 
Group Sales and 
Marketing Director 160 – – 64 – 5 229 973 260 – 489 1,624 –
Mr G Davis
5
– – – – – – – 1,445 – – – 3,780 –
1,602 – – 913 296 47 2,858 5,534 1,058 701 4,617 10,171 1,515
Non-Executive 
Directors
Mr I J G Napier, 
Chairman – 433 – – – – 433 433 – – 433 433 450
Mr J-D Comolli
6
 – – – – – – – 593 – – – 593 –
Dr K M Burnett – 65 – – – – 65 65 – – 65 65 73
Mr M H C Herlihy
7
– 75 – – – – 75 65 – – 75 65 88
Dr P H Jungels
7
– 95 – – – – 95 105 – – 95 105 98
Mr C F Knott
8
– – – – – – – 60 – – – 60 –
Ms S E Murray – 65 – – – – 65 65 – – 65 65 73
Mr B Setrakian – 65 – – – – 65 65 – – 65 65 73
Mr M D Williamson
7
– 85 – – – – 85 85 – – 85 85 93
– 883 – – – – 883 1,536 – – 883 1,563 948
Former Directors
Mr G L Blashill
4
21 – – 7 – 1 29 – – 262 291 – –
Mr D Cresswell
9
– – 5 – – – 5 51 – – 5 51 –
Mr G Davis
5
 – – – – – – – 154 – – – 154 –
Mr S Huismans
10
– – 5 – – – 5 28 – – 5 28 –
Mr S T Painter
11
– – 5 – – – 5 98 – – 5 98 –
21 – 15 7 – 1 44 331 – 262 306 331 –
1 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on pages 72 to 73.
2 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance.
3 LTIP and SMS represent the value of SMS awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year.
4 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011. He remained an employee until 15 February 2011.
5 Mr G Davis retired from the Board on 12 May 2010. He remained an employee until 4 June 2010.
6  Mr J-D Comolli resigned from the Board with effect from 14 September 2010.
7  Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of £25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of  
£15,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and £20,000 in respect of the Audit Committee.
8 Mr C F Knott resigned from the Board on 17 July 2010.
9  Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. He received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory 
Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010.
10 Mr S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006. He received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory 
Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010.
11  Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000. He received fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his Non-Executive Director 
appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 3 December 2009 and Subsidiary Boards within the Altadis Group until  
27 September 2011.
No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances and no Directors waived their fees. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
64
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Interests in Ordinary Shares (Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons 
Interests) (Audited)
Ordinary Shares Sharesave Options
Contingent Rights to 
Ordinary Shares 
(LTIP and SMS Shares) Total Interests
1/10/10 30/09/11
1
1/11/11
1
1/10/10 30/09/11
1
1/10/10 30/09/11
1
1/10/10 30/9/11
1
 1/11/11
1
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper 114,336 130,187 130,187 729 729 131,057 209,933 246,122 340,849 340,849
Mr R Dyrbus 398,365 399,462 399,462 669 669 224,196 259,324 643,230 659,455 659,455
Mr G L Blashill
2
154,790 163,660 163,660 729 729 125,446 128,723 280,965 293,112 293,112
Non-Executive 
Directors
Mr I J G Napier 14,747 16,807 16,807 – – – – 14,747 16,807 16,807
Dr K M Burnett 1,583 1,876 1,876 – – – – 1,583 1,876 1,876
Mr M H C Herlihy 3,015 3,442 3,442 – – – – 3,015 3,442 3,442
Dr P H Jungels 5,661 6,012 6,012 – – – – 5,661 6,012 6,012
Ms S E Murray 2,465 2,758 2,758 – – – – 2,465 2,758 2,758
Mr B Setrakian 725 1,018 1,018 – – – – 725 1,018 1,018
Mr M D Williamson 2,597 2,890 2,890 – – – – 2,597 2,890 2,890
1 Or date of resignation or retirement if earlier.
2 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011.
There have been no changes in these interests since 30 September 2011.
Remuneration Policy and Practice
Our Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels who are 
incentivised to deliver our corporate strategy through clear links between reward and performance without encouraging them to 
take undue risks. 
We operate in a highly competitive international environment and continue to assign employees internationally to achieve the 
optimum balance of experience within the Group and to facilitate employee development.
We align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual 
opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees 
participating in one or more plans. 
Executive Policy and Practice
We consider it critical to align the remuneration package for Executive Directors and our most senior executives with the Group’s 
strategy and risk appetite. We, therefore, believe our Executive Directors’ remuneration should be competitive but not excessive 
and, to incentivise them to maximise individual, functional and corporate performance, that they should be able to earn more from 
their performance related pay than from their fixed pay. We aim to position our fixed elements of remuneration around the median 
paid by our comparator group of companies, which currently remains the FTSE 50 with secondary reference to the FTSE 30  
both excluding companies in the financial and pharmaceutical sectors but which will be reviewed as part of the Committee’s 
consideration of overall remuneration philosophy.
By linking a significant proportion of our performance related remuneration elements to the value of our shares, we provide  
our Executive Directors with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total compensation if they produce enhanced earnings and 
above market returns for our shareholders. Our policy also supports our strategy by linking the major elements of remuneration  
to performance criteria aligned with our KPIs. The policy, however, includes both short-term and long-term incentives, the main 
elements being base salary, annual bonus, long term incentive plan (LTIP), SMS and pension benefits.
To ensure our Remuneration Policy is firmly linked to our strategy and risk management, Executive Directors, together with other 
senior executives, are required to build a significant stake in the Company in accordance with our share retention guidelines.  
This link is further supported through the setting of bonus and employee share plan targets that reflect key business imperatives,  
for example volume growth, cash conversion and growth in EPS and TSR all of which are key performance indicators used to 
measure strategy as discussed on page 11.
Executive Directors are remunerated in respect of their executive appointments under the terms of their service agreements and 
receive no additional fees for serving as Directors.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
65
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Directors’ Service Arrangements
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements 
The Company’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and there 
is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. The service 
agreement for Mr R Dyrbus was, however, entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from the Hanson Group  
and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in his service agreement reflect  
those arrangements.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors’ service agreements,  
except for those set out in the table below. The Executive Directors’ service agreements do contain provisions for payment in lieu  
of notice but these are at the Company’s sole discretion. We are unequivocally against rewards for failure. Apart from the limited 
respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are  
taken into account in every case. Our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that  
they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments would be paid 
monthly in arrears. 
Under the Rules of our LTIP and SMS, outstanding awards vest if a participant leaves for specified reasons, including death, 
retirement, redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a 
change of control. In these circumstances a participant’s awards vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing. If, however, the termination of employment is not for one of 
the specified reasons a participant’s full awards lapse.
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control
Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice No provisions
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference 
to benefits receivable during the notice period
Mr G L Blashill
1
28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks’ notice No provisions
1 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011. 
Policy in Respect of Remuneration from External Board Appointments
We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company. 
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive 
directorship. Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the 
chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mrs A J Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and is permitted to retain the £44,167 fees received from this position 
in the financial year.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors
Within the £2.0 million limit set out in our Articles of Association, the Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees  
for our Non-Executive Directors and, after recommendation by the Remuneration Committee, our Chairman. In addition to base 
fees, additional fees are paid to the Chairmen of our Audit and Remuneration Committees and our Senior Independent Director. 
After taking account of market practice, with reference to our comparator group together with the need to attract and retain high 
calibre individuals, these fees are reviewed, but not necessarily increased, on an annual basis.
With the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company, Non-Executive 
Directors receive no other material pay or benefits. They are not eligible for bonuses, retirement benefits or to participate in the 
Group’s employee share plans. 
To align Non-Executive Directors’ interests with those of our shareholders, a proportion of their fees is applied to the purchase of 
shares in the Company, but not at a level that we believe could compromise their judgement or independence. These shares are 
held by a nominee during the term of their directorship.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company but the terms of their appointment, 
including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered 
office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy the Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment were reviewed and 
confirmed by the Board on 1 February 2011. Under the terms of our Articles of Association, Directors are subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that 
the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, 
no compensation is payable on termination.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 66
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Remuneration Practices 
The main elements of the Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements (other than benefits in kind) are summarised in the table 
below and are explained in more detail in the subsequent paragraphs.
Executive Directors’ 2010/2011 Remuneration Policy
Element Objective Award Level Performance Criteria Performance Period
Base salary Attract and retain high 
performing individuals 
reflecting market value  
of role and executive’s  
skills and experience.
Median of FTSE 50 with secondary 
reference to the FTSE 30, both 
excluding companies in the financial 
and pharmaceutical sectors. 
N/A N/A
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of  
Group objectives and 
enhance performance.
Maximum percentage of base salary. 
Cash element: Chief Executive and 
Finance Director first 100%.
 
Non-matchable deferred shares 
element: Chief Executive up to an 
additional 100% of base salary, 
Finance Director up to an additional 
50% of base salary.
Financial Targets (75% of 
maximum bonus).
Strategic Targets (25% of 
maximum bonus).
1 year
 
 
 
3 year 
retention period
Share  
Matching 
Scheme 
Incentivise growth in EPS 
and align with interests of 
shareholders.
May elect to invest some or all of 
gross cash element of the annual 
bonus in shares. These can be 
matched on a 1:1 basis.
EPS growth. 3 years
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Incentivise long-term  
delivery of EPS and TSR  
and align with interests 
of shareholders.
Percentage of base salary:
Chief Executive 200%,  
Finance Director 150%.
3 elements: 
 – 50% EPS growth
 – 25% TSR vs FTSE 100
 – 25% TSR vs  
comparator group.
3 years
Base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed in September of each year following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual 
responsibilities, performance and the market rate for the position. Our policy is to set base pay within a range around the market 
median of the comparator group after consideration of market data provided by Towers Watson. Consideration is given to the effect 
an amendment to an individual’s base salary would have on their total remuneration package. Base salary is the only element of the 
package used to determine pensionable earnings. This year’s review was conducted in the context of the need to apply appropriate 
restraint in pay levels whilst also being cognisant of what is a highly competitive international market for executive talent. As a result 
of the review, it was decided that the Chief Executive’s base salary should be increased by 7.5 per cent in line with the Committee’s 
previously stated policy of bringing her fixed pay into line with the market median over time.
At its meeting in September 2011 the Committee increased the Chief Executive’s base salary to £860,000 (from £800,000) and the 
Finance Director’s base salary to £654,500 (from £641,690, which was not increased at the previous review) taking account of the 
Company’s size, corporate performance, international profile, employee remuneration more generally and the critical importance of 
their roles in driving future performance. 
We believe there should be a cohesive remuneration structure across the Group. Our approach for all employees, including 
executives, is, therefore, to set remuneration that takes account of: market practice; economic conditions; the performance of the 
Group, of teams and the individual; collective agreements that may apply; and any legal or regulatory requirements. In setting the 
remuneration policy and levels for executives, the Committee considers the remuneration arrangements and employment conditions 
of the wider employee population within the Group.
The percentage increases for executives’ base salaries effective both 1 October 2010 and 1 October 2011 were generally lower 
than the average for other employees of the Group located in the same region. 
Percentage of total actual remuneration for the financial year 
to 30 September 2011
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Mr R Dyrbus
Mrs A J Cooper
Key
 Salary
  Pension Salary 
Supplement
 Benefits in Kind
 Bonus
 SMS
 LTIP Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
67
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Annual Bonus
Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance. We, therefore, think it is appropriate 
to have a major element of Executive Directors’ remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Group’s annual objectives  
and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets in support of our KPIs as set out on pages 11 to 13. 
For the financial year ended 30 September 2011 the potential maximum bonus was 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief 
Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 120 per cent for the Group Sales and Marketing Director (pro rata to date  
of retirement).
In support of our KPIs as used to measure strategy, detailed on pages 11 to 13, up to 75 per cent of the maximum annual  
bonus can be earned for achieving financial targets including growth in adjusted EPS and net revenue growth (which is subject  
to market share underpins). The remaining 25 per cent can be earned for performance against stretching, quantifiable strategic  
and non-financial targets, subject to achievement of a minimum threshold in respect of the financial targets. During the year we 
delivered adjusted EPS of 188.0 pence. When combined with net revenue growth this resulted in 27.5 per cent of the financial 
element vesting.
The strategic and non-financial targets support our growth strategy by driving performance against our key growth drivers,  
including cash conversion, volume targets incentivising sales growth in support of our cigarette volumes and our stick equivalent 
KPIs, as detailed on page 13, and targets relating to our key risks including anti-illicit trade activities supporting our focus on future 
foundations. We consider the strategic and non-financial targets to be commercially confidential, however, they were met in part, 
with 50.0 per cent of this element vesting.
Any annual bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and Finance Director is paid in cash 
and is eligible for investment in our SMS (SMS Eligible Bonus). Any bonus payable in excess of this level is used to purchase the 
Company’s shares which the Director is required to retain for a minimum of three years. These shares are not eligible for investment 
in the SMS. 
It is intended that the Executive Directors’ annual bonus for the year ending 30 September 2012 with be structured in broadly the 
same manner as outlined above although the operation of the annual bonus thereafter will be considered as part of the Committee’s 
review of the Company’s remuneration philosophy.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to claw back, during the three years following the 
end of the financial year in which they are earned, in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results 
where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed. 
Share Interests and Incentives
Whilst placing significant weight on our annual performance, our overall remuneration package aligns the long-term interests of our 
shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the 
long-term. To support this alignment, we have adopted a set of share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and 
other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment Executive Directors are required to build a holding in the Group’s shares to a minimum 
value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for our Chief Executive and Finance Director. Other senior management are 
expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade. Failure to meet the 
minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards. All Executive Directors 
currently exceed their required shareholding.
We also support this alignment by linking a significant portion of Executive Directors’ and senior management’s remuneration to 
shares. The value of their overall remuneration is, therefore, heavily dependent on the performance of our share price.
Our long-term incentives consist of two employee share plans: the SMS and the LTIP .
Share Matching Scheme
The purpose of the SMS is to encourage the Group’s senior managers, including Executive Directors, to hold shares in the 
Company. Under the SMS, at the discretion of the Committee, senior managers are invited to invest any proportion of their SMS 
Eligible Bonus in our shares. If those shares are held in an employee nominee facility for three years and the participant remains  
an employee within the Group, they will be matched on a one-for-one basis. To further incentivise our Executive Directors and our 
most senior managers we apply a performance criterion, as shown below, measurement of which is based on the same protocol  
as that applying to the LTIP and there is no opportunity to re-test. Employees can exercise their vote in respect of shares held in the 
employee nominee facility by giving written instructions to the nominee. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 68
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Share Matching Scheme Vesting Scale
EPS Growth 
Below RPI plus 3 per cent per annum Zero
At RPI plus 3 per cent per annum 50%
At RPI plus 6 per cent or more per annum 100%
1
1 Sliding scale applies for performance between RPI plus 3 per cent and RPI plus 6 per cent.
Under the rules of the SMS, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired the performance period would end on the date  
of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable 
performance criterion.
Executive Directors’ Contingent Rights to Shares under the Share Matching Scheme 
(Audited)
Balance at 
1/10/2010
Contingent 
rights arising
Prevailing share 
price at date  
of grant 
£
Vested 
during year
Market price 
 at date of 
 vesting 
15/2/2011 
£
Amount 
realised on 
vesting 
£’000
Balance at
30/9/2011
1
Actual/expected  
vesting date
Mrs A J Cooper 11,366 – 21.18
2
(11,366) 19.79 225 – February 2011
17,895 – 17.80
3
– – – 17,895 February 2012
20,644 – 20.57
4
– – – 20,644 February 2013
– 31,606 19.79
5
– – – 31,606 February 2014
49,905 31,606 – (11,366) – 225 70,145
Mr R Dyrbus 24,030 – 21.18
2
(24,030) 19.79 476 – February 2011
32,303 – 17.80
3
– – – 32,303 February 2012
32,255 – 20.57
4
– – – 32,255 February 2013
– 32,424 19.79
5
– – – 32,424 February 2014
88,588 32,424 – (24,030) – 476 96,982
Mr G L Blashill
6
13,262 – 21.18
2
– – – 13,262 February 2011
17,684 – 17.80
3
– – – 17,684 February 2012
18,735 – 20.57
4
– – – 18,735 February 2013
49,681 – – – – – 49,681
1 Or date of retirement as a Director if earlier.
2 Award granted 15 February 2008. Share price on date of grant adjusted from £23.97 following June 2008 rights issue.
3  Award granted 15 February 2009. 
4 Award granted 15 February 2010.
5 Award granted 15 February 2011.
6 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011 and was not eligible to participate in the 15 February 2011 award.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ contingent rights since 30 September 2011.
During February 2011 the SMS relating to annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2007 matured.  
The performance criterion was met in full. In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2010 our 
Executive Directors elected to invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the form of our shares under the scheme. 
These matched shares are shown within contingent rights arising above. It is anticipated that in February 2012 the Executive 
Directors will again invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the scheme.
The performance criterion, award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year. The Committee 
confirmed they remain appropriate and that, therefore, it is intended that the same performance criterion will determine vesting  
of SMS awards made in the financial year ending 30 September 2012. However, the operation of the SMS thereafter will be 
considered again as part of the Committee’s review of the Company’s remuneration philosophy.
In respect of the February 2009 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year the award will vest in full. For illustrative 
purposes only, the share price on 31 October 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was £22.74 valuing the 
February 2009 award as follows:
 Award vesting 
No. of shares
Award vesting 
Illustrative value 
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 17,895 407
Mr R Dyrbus 32,303 735
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2011 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance 
were maintained over the relevant performance periods, both the February 2010 and February 2011 awards would lapse. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
69
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Long Term Incentive Plan
The LTIP is a conditional award of shares to Executive Directors and other senior management. Some, all, or none of these shares 
vest three years after grant dependent upon performance over the period. All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee and no employee has a right to receive an award. Awards are equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief 
Executive and 150 per cent for the Finance Director, with awards at lower levels for other senior managers.
Current Structure
The performance criteria for all awards is split into three elements which operate independently and can vest regardless of the 
performance in respect of the other elements.
The three elements are:
First Element
The performance criterion for 50 per cent of the award is based on average growth in adjusted EPS based on an agreed protocol, 
after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award (Real Annual EPS Growth). At the Committee’s request, our Auditors perform 
agreed upon procedures on the calculations. If Real Annual EPS Growth equals 3 per cent, 12.5 per cent of this element vests.  
This element vests in full if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent. Between these two points this element vests 
on a straight-line basis.
Second Element
A further 25 per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on a sliding scale depending on TSR relative to the  
FTSE 100 Index. No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR ranks it in the top 50 per cent of the companies  
in this index. At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element vests. This element vests in full if the TSR ranks the 
Company in the top 25 per cent of this index. Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Third Element
The final 25 per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on a sliding scale depending on TSR relative to a bespoke 
comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies. No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR 
exceeds that of the bottom six companies in the comparator group. At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element 
vests. This element vests in full if the TSR ranks the Company in the top three. Between these thresholds this element vests on 
a straight-line basis. The comparator group for the November 2010 award was: 
AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S
Diageo PLC Heineken N.V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. 
Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard S.A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC
To ensure our Executive Directors and senior managers are incentivised to drive our underlying performance and to ensure that 
corporate actions or fluctuations in exchange rates do not unduly affect comparative underlying performance, the Committee has 
agreed the following protocols:
 – if a company in the comparator group is delisted during the performance period it will be replaced from the start of the 
performance period, in an agreed order, by Lorillard Inc or Molson Coors Brewing Company;
 – if a company in the comparator group undertakes a rights issue during the performance period a cash neutral approach of  
selling a portion of rights to take up the balance of the rights (commonly known as ‘tail swallowing’) will be applied; and
 – to remove the undue influence of exchange rate fluctuations, TSR calculations are measured in the currency in which each 
company is listed. 
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, 
averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices. Dividend payments are recognised on the 
date shares are declared ex dividend. The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved 
performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
During the year the Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator group and vesting schedules for  
LTIP awards and decided that the three elements remain relevant measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement  
in shareholder value and support our long-term KPIs, discussed on pages 11 to 13. It is, therefore, intended that the same 
performance criteria (and the same comparator group of companies for the third element) will determine vesting of LTIP awards  
to be made in the year ending 30 September 2012. The operation of the LTIP will, however, be considered again as part of the 
Committee’s review of the Company’s remuneration philosophy.
Vesting of Awards
On vesting, a participant’s option to acquire the relevant number of shares may be exercised at any time up to the seventh 
anniversary of the date the award vested. The vesting process in a number of jurisdictions outside the UK is, however, amended  
to comply with local securities and tax legislation.
The performance period is set prior to the granting of each annual award and there is no opportunity to re-test if any of the 
performance criteria are not achieved. 
Under the rules of the LTIP , should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. 
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
The Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest. This ensures awards only 
vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, 
including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 70
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
LTIP Award Summary
Award as Percentage of Base Salary Performance Criteria 
200 for Chief Executive 50 per cent on EPS
150 for Finance Director 25 per cent on TSR against FTSE 100
25 per cent on TSR against comparator group
Executive Directors’ Conditional Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(Audited)
Balance at 
1/10/2010
Granted 
during 
year
Date of 
grant
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant 
£
Vested 
during 
year 
(2/11/2010)
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting 
£
Market 
price at 
date of 
exercise 
£
Lapsed 
during 
year
Amount 
realised on 
exercise 
£’000
Balance at
30/9/2011
1
Performance 
period
Mrs A J Cooper 19,988 – 31/10/07 24.47 (13,719) 19.97 19.20 (6,269) 263 – 2007-2010
2
31,972 – 26/11/08 14.70 – – – – – 31,972 2008-2011
3
29,192 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 29,192 2009-2012
4
– 78,624 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 78,624 2010-2013
5
81,152 78,624 – – (13,719) – – (6,269) 263 139,788
Mr R Dyrbus 40,565 – 31/10/07 24.47 (27,843) 19.97 19.20 (12,722) 535 – 2007-2010
2
63,571 – 26/11/08 14.70 – – – – – 63,571 2008-2011
3
51,472 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 51,472 2009-2012
4
– 47,299 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 47,299 2010-2013
5
155,608 47,299 – – (27,843) – – (12,722) 535 162,342
Mr G L Blashill 19,752 – 31/10/07 24.47 (13,558) 19.97 19.20 (6,194) 260 – 2007-2010
2
30,952 – 26/11/08 14.70 – – – – – 30,952 2008-2011
3
25,061 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 25,061 2009-2012
4
– 23,029 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 23,029 2010-2013
5
75,765 23,029 – – (13,558) – – (6,194) 260 79,042
1 Or date of retirement as a Director if earlier.
2 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 1 November 2010 and 31 October 2017.
3 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 26 November 2011 and 25 November 2018.
4 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 11 November 2012 and 10 November 2019.
5 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 3 November 2013 and 2 November 2020.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ awards since 30 September 2011. 
During the year, the October 2007 – October 2010 award vested partially on 2 November 2010 (being the first day the Company 
came out of a close period). Based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year the first element vested in full, 
approximately 74.5 per cent of the second element vested and none of the third element vested. The remaining shares under  
award lapsed.
In respect of the November 2008 – November 2011 award, based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the financial year 
approximately 80.4 per cent of the first element will vest on 26 November 2011, approximately 62.1 per cent of the second  
element will vest and the third element will lapse. For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 31 October 2011, being the  
latest practicable date prior to publication, was £22.74, valuing the awards as follows:
Award lapsing 
No. of shares
Award vesting 
No. of shares 
over which  
option granted
Award vesting 
Illustrative value 
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 14,161 17,811 405
Mr R Dyrbus 28,156 35,415 805
The value of any options exercised could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements.
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2011 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance 
were maintained over the relevant performance periods, the first element of the November 2009 – November 2012 award would 
lapse, approximately 30 per cent of the second element would vest and the third element would lapse. In respect of the November 
2010 – November 2013 award, the first element would lapse, 100 per cent of the second and 30 per cent of the third element  
would vest. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
71
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows:
No. of shares
November 2012 
Illustrative value 
£’000 No. of shares
November 2013 
Illustrative value 
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 2,189 50 25,552 581
Mr R Dyrbus 3,860 88 15,371 350
Review of Past Performance 
The chart below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested  
in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2011. We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides 
the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance and reflects one of our LTIP 
performance criteria.
0
50
100
150
200
Total Return Indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100
2006 2007 2011 2008 2009 2010 
FTSE 100
Imperial Tobacco
Sharesave Plan
We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our 
shareholders. Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join  
the Sharesave Plan. Options over ordinary shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of 
our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation. The Plan allows participants to save up to £250 
per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or five years, and then exercise their option over ordinary shares.  
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
Executive Directors’ Share Options under the Sharesave Plan (Audited) 
Balance at 
1/10/2010
Granted 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
 the year
Market price  
at date  
of exercise 
£
Balance at
30/09/2011
1
Exercise price 
£
Range of 
exercisable 
dates of 
options held at
30/9/2011
2
 
Gains on exercise
3
During 
the year  
£’000
 
2010 
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 729 – – – – 729 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 – –
729 – – – – 729 – – –
Mr R Dyrbus 437 – – – – 437 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 – –
232 – – – – 232 15.63 01/08/13 – 31/01/14 – –
669 – – – – 669 – – –
Mr G L Blashill 729 – – – – 729 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 – –
729 – – – – 729 – – –
1 Or date of retirement as a Director if earlier.
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
3 Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise. Aggregate gains during the 
year were nil (2010: £776).
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ share options since 30 September 2011.
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2011, being the last trading day of the financial year,  
was £21.74 and the range of the middle market price during the year was £17.84 to £22.31.
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at our registered office.
Award Dates
Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 72
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Executive Directors’ Pensions
Since 6 April 2006 (‘A’ day) the Group’s UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to 
maintain membership of or, in respect of new employees, join the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the Fund) or receive a salary 
supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group. For members 
who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60. The Fund allows  
members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age, usually after 32 years’ service. 
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted. 
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two-thirds  
of the member’s expected pension at retirement. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the member’s 
pre-commutation pension is payable. Dependent children will also receive allowances.
Pensions in payment increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an 
option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail 
Prices Index to a maximum of 15 per cent.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis.  
Members who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 continue to accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined benefit basis, 
as set out above. All Executive Directors accrue pension benefits on the defined benefit basis.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) which abolished most of the detailed  
limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a simplified approach. Each member now has a Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA) of £1.80 million for retirements in the tax year 2011/2012 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied  
at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount. For any member whose total benefit value  
on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be 
subject to a large retrospective LTA charge. To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of Fund 
membership in respect of future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service. 
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60. Mr R Dyrbus has opted out of Fund 
membership in respect of future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC. The detailed HMRC 
rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible, in some rare circumstances, for the full final salary linked 
pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the Fund. In this event an additional pension will be paid by the 
Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme (UURBS) so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and 
arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary. Mrs A J Cooper 
is also in receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRC’s earnings 
cap. Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but 
maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of 
the Fund’s earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1/60ths with a 50 per cent spouse’s 
pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. As an alternative to extra pension accrual 
on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which 
they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employer’s national insurance contributions. The supplements are 
non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and gives details for each Executive Director of:
 – the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he/she had left service at the year end (any potential UURBS 
entitlement is included);
 – the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under 
the Listing Rules; and
 – the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the latest Regulations.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
73
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited)
Disclosures required under the Regulations Listing Rules
Accrued pension £’000 Transfer value of accrued pension £’000
1
£’000
Age at 
30/09/2011 
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
30/09/2011 
Years
At 
1/10/2010
Increase  
during  
the year
At 
30/09/2011
At 
1/10/2010
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
during  
the year 
net of  
Director’s  
contributions 
Director’s  
contribution
At  
30/09/2011
Increase  
in accrued 
pension 
(net of 
inflation) 
during 
the year
Transfer 
value of 
increase 
(net of 
inflation)
Mrs A J Cooper 45 12 82 27 109 822 263 29 1,114 23 235
Mr R Dyrbus 58 29 324 – 324 5,445 119 – 5,564 – –
Former Director
Mr G L Blashill
2
64 42 312 – 312 6,244 238 – 6,482 – –
1 The transfer values disclosed above have been calculated using the amended transfer value basis introduced in July 2011 following a review. The changes in 
the transfer values include the net effect of changing market conditions over the course of the year and the revised basis.
2 Mr G L Blashill retired and drew his full pension, as is permitted under the Fund rules, on 15 February 2011. Mr Blashill ceased to be a Director of the 
Company on 2 February 2011. The transfer value figure in the table above incorporates allowance for the benefit paid out in order to provide a consistent 
comparison with previous figures. The accrued pension figures represent the benefits accrued, assuming that Mr Blashill first started to draw pension from 
the relevant date. The figures shown are consistent with those disclosed at 30 September 2010 and the transfer values are calculated at 15 February 2011 
allowing for market conditions at 30 September 2010.
Other information
Employee Benefit Trusts
Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or 
ordinary shares held in treasury distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and 
Executive Benefit Trust (the Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust (the 2001 Trust) 
(together the Employee Benefit Trusts).
As at 30 September 2011, we held 57,007,000 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under 
our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts. 
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows:
 
Balance at 
1/10/2010
Acquired  
during year
Distributed 
during year
Balance at  
30/09/2011
Ordinary shares  
under Award 
at 30/09/2011
Surplus/ 
(Shortfall)
Executive Trust 746,102 434,492 200,950 979,644 913,356 66,288
2001 Trust 3,013,467 1,797,966 976,774 3,834,659 4,913,631 (1,078,972)
Share Plan Flow Rates
The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting 
options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in ten years for all employee share plans,  
with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in ten years for executive share plans. Currently an aggregate total of 0.54 per cent of  
the Company’s issued share capital (including shares held in treasury) is subject to options and awards under the Group’s executive  
and all employee share plans. 
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative number of shares under option and award granted pursuant to all of the Company’s 
employee share plans totals 3.0 per cent of its issued share capital. Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants 
have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital (including shares held in treasury).
Summary of Options and Awards Granted
Limit on awards
Cumulative Options and Awards granted  
as a percentage of issued share capital  
(including those held in treasury)
 Options and Awards granted during the year  
 as a percentage of issued share capital  
(including those held in treasury)
10% in 10 years 2.0 0.2
5% in 5 years 1.0 0.2
5% in 10 years (executive plans) 1.0 0.1 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 74
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Remuneration Arrangements for Former Executive Directors
Mr G L Blashill
In order to assist in the orderly handover of his duties, following his retirement from the Board on 2 February 2011 Mr Blashill 
remained an employee until his retirement on 15 February 2011. During this period he continued to receive his full remuneration. 
Upon his retirement and the partial satisfaction of the performance criteria, Mr Blashill’s LTIP and SMS awards vested in part on 
a pro-rata basis. The balance of his awards lapsed.
Mr D Cresswell
Following his retirement from the Board in December 2007, Mr Cresswell remains a member of the Board of Imperial Vina Danang 
Company Limited and was a member of the Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010.
Mr M A Häussler 
Mr Häussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it was taken before he reached his  
normal retirement age. His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to  
those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement. This was  
a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension for life of 
60 per cent of that amount would be payable. The pension is made up of two parts: one part payable from the unfunded pension 
arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, the other part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension 
Fund. The pensions payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased 
annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law.
Mr S Huismans
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr Huismans remained a member of Supervisory Boards within the 
Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010. Mr Huismans received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Mr S T Painter
Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Group’s 
principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007. Under the terms of the agreement he provided 
consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of £1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days’ service for 
each 12 month period ending on 30 June 2006, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007. Mr Painter continued 
to provide consultancy services as required until July 2010 and received fees at a day rate of £1,000. He was entitled to 
reimbursement for the use of his car. 
Mr Painter was also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group until December 2009 and, between January and 
October 2008, the Altadis Group, for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles. He, however, 
remained a Director of Altadis Maroc until September 2011.
For the Board
 
M H C Herlihy
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
1 November 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
75
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Group Financial Statements
 Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 76
Consolidated Income Statement 77
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 78
Consolidated Balance Sheet 79
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 80
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 81
Accounting Policies 82
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 87
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1 Segment Information 88
2 Profit Before Taxation 90
3 Restructuring Costs 90
4 Directors and Employees 91
5 Net Finance Costs 91
6 Taxation 92
7 Dividends 93
8 Earnings Per Share 93
9 Intangible Assets 94
10 Property, Plant and Equipment 96
11 Joint Ventures 97
12 Inventories 98
13 Trade and Other Receivables 98
14 Cash and Cash Equivalents 99
15 Trade and Other Payables 99
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments 99
17 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 114
18 Retirement Benefit Schemes 115
19 Provisions 118
20 Share Capital 118
21 Share Schemes 119
22 Treasury Shares 121
23 Commitments 121
24 Legal Proceedings 122
25 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 122
26 Analysis of Net Debt 122
27 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement  
in Net Debt 123
28 Acquisitions 123
Parent Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 124
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 125
Notes to the Financial Statements  
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 126
Principal Undertakings 129
Financial Statements and Notes – Contents Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
76
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
We have audited the Group financial statements of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement,  
the Accounting Policies and related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation  
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting  
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors  
and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it  
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent  
in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the  
Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free  
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting  
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and  
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as 
at 30 September 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the 
year then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and 
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to 
Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the Directors’ statement in the Corporate Governance Report, 
in relation to going concern; and 
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 – certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 
30 September 2011 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
David Charles (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Bristol 
1 November 2011
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
77
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million unless otherwise indicated Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2011
Year ended  
30 September  
2010
Revenue 1 29,223 28,173 
Duty and similar items (14,037) (13,155)
Other cost of sales (9,736) (9,563)
Cost of sales (23,773) (22,718)
Gross profit 5,450 5,455 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (2,006) (2,001)
Administrative and other expenses (804) (926)
Operating profit 1 2,640 2,528 
Investment income 5 785 844 
Finance costs 5 (1,272) (1,254)
Net finance costs 5 (487) (410)
Profit before taxation 2 2,153 2,118 
Taxation 6 (337) (596)
Profit for the year 1,816 1,522 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,796 1,505 
Non-controlling interests 20 17 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
– Basic 8 177.3 148.5 
– Diluted 8 176.8 148.0
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
78
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2011
Year ended  
30 September  
2010
Profit for the year 1,816 1,522 
Other comprehensive income
Exchange movements (127) (174)
Tax effect of exchange movements 17 – (9)
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefits 18 41 (111)
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial (gains)/losses on retirement benefits 17 (21) 19 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (107) (275)
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,709 1,247 
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 1,692 1,229 
Non-controlling interests 17 18 
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,709 1,247 
Reconciliation from operating profit to adjusted operating profit
£ million Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2011
Year ended  
30 September  
2010
Operating profit 2,640 2,528 
Acquisition accounting adjustments 28 – 24 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 9 402 451 
Restructuring costs 3 61 64 
Adjusted operating profit 3,103 3,067 
Reconciliation from net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs
£ million Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2011
Year ended  
30 September  
2010
Net finance costs (487) (410)
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments providing commercial 
hedges 5 (85) (210)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 5 10 20 
Adjusted net finance costs (562) (600)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
79
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million Notes
30 September  
2011
30 September  
2010
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 20,487 20,941 
Property, plant and equipment 10 2,038 1,971 
Investments in associates 18 18 
Retirement benefit assets 18 5 25 
Trade and other receivables 13 100 97 
Derivative financial instruments 16 429 327 
Deferred tax assets 17 102 150 
23,179 23,529 
Current assets
Inventories 12 3,055 3,019 
Trade and other receivables 13 2,897 3,000 
Current tax assets 6 42 51 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 1,171 773 
Derivative financial instruments 16 223 243 
7,388 7,086 
Total assets 30,567 30,615 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (2,104) (329)
Derivative financial instruments 16 (301) (262)
Trade and other payables 15 (7,617) (7,710)
Finance lease liabilities 26 (1) (1)
Current tax liabilities 6 (434) (653)
Provisions 19 (163) (187)
(10,620) (9,142)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (8,076) (10,003)
Derivative financial instruments 16 (760) (748)
Trade and other payables 15 (19) (21)
Finance lease liabilities 26 (22) (24)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (2,056) (2,074)
Retirement benefit liabilities 18 (759) (867)
Provisions 19 (545) (647)
(12,237) (14,384)
Total liabilities (22,857) (23,526)
Net assets 7,710 7,089 
Equity
Share capital 20 107 107 
Share premium 5,833 5,833 
Retained earnings 956 206 
Exchange translation reserve 759 883 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 7,655 7,029 
Non-controlling interests 55 60 
Total equity 7,710 7,089
The financial statements on pages 77 to 123 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 November 2011 and signed on its  
behalf by:
  
Iain Napier    Robert Dyrbus
Chairman    Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
80
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million
Share  
capital
Share  
premium
Retained  
earnings
Exchange  
translation  
reserve
Equity 
attributable  
to owners of 
the parent
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total  
equity
At 1 October 2010 107 5,833 206 883 7,029 60 7,089 
Profit – – 1,796 – 1,796 20 1,816 
Exchange movements – – – (124) (124) (3) (127)
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – 41 – 41 – 41 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains  
on retirement benefits – – (21) – (21) – (21)
Other comprehensive income – – 20 (124) (104) (3) (107)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,816 (124) 1,692 17 1,709 
Transactions with owners
Purchase of shares by Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts – – (22) – (22) – (22)
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise  
of share schemes – – 4 – 4 – 4 
Costs of employees’ services compensated  
by share schemes – – 26 – 26 – 26 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares – – (182) – (182) – (182)
Dividends paid – – (892) – (892) (22) (914)
At 30 September 2011 107 5,833 956 759 7,655 55 7,710 
At 1 October 2009 107 5,833 (469) 1,067 6,538 57 6,595 
Profit – – 1,505 – 1,505 17 1,522 
Exchange movements – – – (175) (175) 1 (174)
Deferred tax effect of exchange movements – – – (9) (9) – (9)
Net actuarial losses on retirement benefits – – (111) – (111) – (111)
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial losses  
on retirement benefits – – 19 – 19 – 19 
Other comprehensive income – – (92) (184) (276) 1 (275)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,413 (184) 1,229 18 1,247 
Transactions with owners
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise  
of share schemes – – 5 – 5 – 5 
Costs of employees’ services compensated  
by share schemes – – 28 – 28 – 28 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 2 – 2 – 2 
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – (1) – (1) – (1)
Other deferred tax movements – – 2 – 2 – 2 
Changes in non-controlling interests  
in shareholdings – – (1) – (1) (3) (4)
Dividends paid – – (773) – (773) (12) (785)
At 30 September 2010 107 5,833 206 883 7,029 60 7,089
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
81
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million Notes
Year ended  
30 September  
2011
Year ended  
30 September  
2010
Cash flows from operating activities 25 2,556 2,859 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 18 29 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (341) (269)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 21 26 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (22) (14)
Purchase of businesses – net of cash acquired – 24 
Proceeds from sale of businesses – net of cash disposed – 5 
Net cash used in investing activities (324) (199)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (570) (609)
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise of share schemes 4 5 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (22) – 
Settlement of exchange rate derivative financial instruments (44) (299)
Increase in borrowings 1,785 1,542 
Repayment of borrowings (1,837) (2,790)
(Increase)/reduction in collateralisation deposits (34) 70 
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (2) (2)
Purchase of treasury shares (182) – 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (22) (12)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (892) (773)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,816) (2,868)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 416 (208)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 773 1,036 
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (18) (55)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,171 773
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
82
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable  
to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention except where fair value measurement 
is required under IFRS as described below in the accounting 
policies on financial instruments, retirement benefit schemes  
and share schemes.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during 
the period and of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at  
the balance sheet date. The key estimates and assumptions are 
set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 
note on page 87. Such estimates and assumptions are based 
on historical experience and various other factors that are 
believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute 
management’s best judgement at the date of the financial 
statements. In the future, actual experience may deviate from 
these estimates and assumptions. This could affect future 
financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions 
are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the 
circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is 
set out below.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its subsidiary 
undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control 
exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any 
potential voting rights. The financial statements of subsidiaries 
are included in the consolidated financial statements from the 
date that control commences until the date that control ceases. 
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries are 
changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted  
by the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for  
the purchase of subsidiaries. The excess of the value transferred 
to the seller in return for control of the acquired business 
together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest 
in that business over the Group’s share of the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill. 
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be 
recovered. A list of the principal undertakings is included on 
pages 129 to 130.
Joint Ventures
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group and  
third parties jointly control. The financial statements of joint 
ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method,  
with the Group’s share of assets and liabilities recognised in  
the balance sheet classified according to their nature. In the 
same way, the Group’s share of income and expenses is 
presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance 
with their function.
Foreign Currency
Items included in the financial statements of each Group 
company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the company operates (the 
functional currency).
The income and cash flow statements of Group companies 
using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to  
sterling (the Group’s presentational currency) at average rates  
of exchange in each period. Assets and liabilities of these 
companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The differences between retained profits 
and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to 
reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the  
net assets at the beginning of the year.
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional 
currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as 
qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external 
borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of 
Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies 
after deducting permanent intragroup loans. Gains or losses on 
these hedges are transferred to other comprehensive income 
and offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
Revenue Recognition
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced 
value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, 
rebates and discounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised when a Group company has delivered products to 
the customer, the customer has accepted the products and 
collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured. 
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing certain  
third party products, are recognised in the accounting period  
in which the services are rendered. 
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced 
value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, 
rebates and discounts. The Logistics business only recognises 
commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions  
in which it acts as a commission agent. Distribution and 
marketing commissions are included in revenue. Revenue is 
recognised on products on consignment when these are sold  
by the consignee.
Accounting Policies Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
83
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Duty and Similar Items
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the 
characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production 
tax, duty is included in revenue and in the income statement as 
an expense. Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from 
revenue. Payments due in the United States under the Master 
Settlement Agreement are considered to be levies having the 
characteristics of duty and are treated as a production tax. 
Taxes
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income 
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in 
respect of previous years. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns 
where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities only where it is considered more 
likely than not that an amount will be paid or received. This test 
is applied to each individual uncertain position which is then 
measured on the single most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the tax base, except if it arises from initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a 
business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is 
provided on temporary differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the assets can be realised. Deferred tax 
is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and are 
expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or  
the deferred tax asset is realised.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income  
or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim 
dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends 
are paid.
Intangible Assets – Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the  
seller in return for control of the acquired business together  
with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in  
that business over the Group’s share of the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried  
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be 
subsequently reversed. For the purpose of impairment testing 
goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose.
Intangible Assets – Other
Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance 
sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a 
business combination, in which case they are initially recognised 
at fair value. They are shown in the balance sheet at historical 
cost or fair value (depending on how they are acquired) less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, 
concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and 
computer software. The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some 
premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to 
have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established 
international brands with global potential. Trademarks with 
indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for 
impairment. Other trademarks, supply agreements (including 
customer relationships) and computer software are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Trademarks 20 – 30 years straight line 
Supply agreements 3 – 15 years straight line 
Software 3 – 5 years straight line
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown in the balance sheet 
at historical cost or fair value (depending on how they are 
acquired), less accumulated depreciation and impairment.  
Costs incurred after initial recognition are included in the  
assets’ carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset  
as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other 
property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost  
of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life  
as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years straight line 
Plant and equipment 2 – 20 years straight line/ 
  reducing balance 
Fixtures and  
motor vehicles 2 – 14 years straight line
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and,  
if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments and Hedging
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
relevant instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when 
the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the 
obligation is extinguished. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
84
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Accounting Policies continued
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and 
receivables (including cash and cash equivalents). Receivables 
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to 
reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.  
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those 
receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income 
statement. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value 
includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and  
deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly  
liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair 
value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value 
includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised 
transaction costs.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage 
the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest  
rate risks. The Group does not transact derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes. Derivative financial assets and 
liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which 
includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant. 
However, as the Group has decided (as permitted under IAS 39) 
not to cash flow or fair value hedge account for its derivative 
financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they arise unless 
the derivative qualifies and has been designated as a net 
investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in  
fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in 
other comprehensive income.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit 
support annex documents under International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in respect of certain 
derivatives are net settled and are therefore netted off the 
carrying value of those derivatives on the balance sheet.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) 
method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress 
comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and 
related production overheads (based on normal operating 
capacity). Net realisable value is the estimated selling price  
in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs  
of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that 
exceeds twelve months is classified as a current asset, 
consistent with recognised industry practice.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group 
has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group  
has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the 
restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly 
announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be 
implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations 
arising can be reliably estimated. Future operating losses are not 
provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood 
that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by 
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is 
recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to 
any one item included in the same class of obligations may  
be small.
Retirement Benefit Schemes
For defined benefit schemes, the amount recognised in the 
balance sheet is the difference between the present value of  
the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and  
the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent that they are 
demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a reduction in 
future contributions. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit 
method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows  
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of 
the related pension obligation. 
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees 
during the year is charged to operating profit. Past service  
costs are recognised immediately in operating profit, unless the 
changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees 
remaining in service for a specified period of time.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between 
actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise 
as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised 
immediately in full in the statement of comprehensive income for 
the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the 
retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within net 
finance costs. This is based on the market value of the assets  
of the schemes at the start of the financial year. A charge is also 
made within net finance costs for the expected increase in the 
present value of the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes 
during the year arising from the schemes being one year closer 
to payment.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are recognised 
as an employee benefit expense when they are due.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
85
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Share-Based Payments
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based 
Payment Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled 
share-based employee compensation schemes. The majority  
of the Group’s schemes are equity-settled.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair  
value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting 
period, based on the number of instruments that are expected 
to vest. For plans where vesting conditions are based on total 
shareholder returns, the fair value at the date of grant reflects 
these conditions. Earnings per share vesting conditions are 
reflected in the estimate of awards that will eventually vest.  
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to  
the portion of the services received is recognised at its current 
fair value at each balance sheet date. Where applicable the 
Group recognises the impact of revisions to original estimates  
in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment  
to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities  
for cash-settled schemes. Fair values are measured using 
appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms  
and conditions of the awards.
The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to 
shares arising under share-based employee compensation 
schemes. Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these 
shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable 
to owners of the parent. When the rights are exercised, equity  
is increased by the amount of any proceeds received by the 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Treasury Shares
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital 
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted 
on consolidation from equity attributable to owners of the  
parent until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. 
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any 
consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, 
is included in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Use of Adjusted Measures
Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures 
provide a useful comparison of business performance  
and reflect the way in which the business is controlled. 
Accordingly, adjusted measures of operating profit, net finance 
costs, profit before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and 
earnings per share exclude, where applicable, acquisition 
accounting adjustments, amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
restructuring costs, post-employment benefits net financing 
cost, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges, 
exchange gains and losses on borrowings in respect of 
commercially effective hedges, and related taxation effects  
and significant one-off tax provision charges or credits arising 
from the resolution of prior year tax matters. Reconciliations 
between adjusted and reported operating profit are included 
within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported 
net finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in 
note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8. 
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms 
under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled 
measures reported by other companies. 
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are 
one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not 
influenced by the day to day operations of the Group, and the 
movements in the fair value of financial instruments which are 
marked to market and not naturally offset. Adjusted net finance 
costs also excludes all post-employment benefit net finance 
cost since pension assets and liabilities and redundancy and 
social plan provisions do not form part of adjusted net debt.  
This allows comparison of the Group’s cost of debt with 
adjusted net debt. The adjusted measures are used by 
management to assess the Group’s financial performance  
and aid comparability of results year on year. 
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are  
as follows:
Acquisition Accounting Adjustments
Acquisition accounting adjustments eliminate costs charged  
to the income statement as a consequence of investigations  
into alleged foreign trading violations in the period prior to  
our acquisition of Reemtsma in 2002 and which have been 
recovered from the sellers. For business combinations which 
took place prior to 1 September 2009, IFRS 3 requires that 
adjustments to the cost of an acquisition are taken to goodwill, 
whereas changes in measurement of assets and liabilities  
after the provisional fair value period are taken to the income 
statement. These items have been excluded from our adjusted 
earnings measures since the costs did not relate to the trading 
performance of the Group and the amounts have been 
recovered from the sellers.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated  
useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.  
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are  
not amortised. We exclude from our adjusted measures the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, other than software,  
and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and tax deductible goodwill. The deferred tax is 
excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal  
of the intangibles and goodwill. The related current cash tax 
benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing 
tax benefit to the Group. Impairment of goodwill is also excluded 
from our adjusted measures. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
86
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial 
Instruments and Exchange Gains and Losses  
on Borrowings
IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in  
the fair value being recognised in the income statement unless 
the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under IFRS 
and the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial 
instrument as a hedge. 
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, 
commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging 
requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective 
hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, 
and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to 
apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative 
financial instruments. However, the Group does apply net 
investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and 
derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s 
foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise 
income statement volatility.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings 
providing commercial hedges from adjusted net finance costs. 
Fair value gains and losses on the interest element of derivative 
financial instruments are excluded as they will reverse over time 
or are matched in future periods by interest charges. Fair value 
gains and losses on the currency element of derivative financial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings are 
excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains and losses on 
the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a separate 
component of other comprehensive income in accordance with 
the Group’s policy on foreign currency.
Restructuring Costs
Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired 
businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with 
their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings 
measures. These costs include the impairment of property,  
plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due  
to restructuring activity.
Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost
The expected return on plan assets and the interest on 
retirement benefit liabilities, together with the unwind of  
discount on redundancy and social plans costs included in 
restructuring provisions, are reported within net finance costs. 
These items together with their related tax effects are excluded 
from our adjusted earnings measures.
Tax Provisions
Significant one-off tax charges or credits arising from the 
resolution of prior year tax matters are excluded from our 
adjusted tax charge to aid comparability and understanding  
of the Group’s performance. 
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used  
by Management
Net Revenue
Under our normal continuous review process to ensure our 
reporting remains relevant and useful we have revised the 
definition of our Tobacco non-GAAP revenue measure to 
exclude revenue from products which are not part of our core 
business of manufacturing and selling tobacco and tobacco-
related products. Under the revised definition with effect from  
1 October 2010 net revenue comprises the Tobacco business 
revenue less associated duty and similar items less revenue 
from the sale of peripheral and non-tobacco-related products. 
Comparatives have been restated in line with the revised 
definition. Management considers this an important measure  
in assessing the profitability of Tobacco operations. 
Distribution Fees
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue  
less the cost of distributed products. Management considers 
this an important measure in assessing the profitability of 
Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using 
adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair  
value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial 
cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards and 
Interpretations
New standards or interpretations which came into effect for the 
current reporting period did not have a material impact on the 
net assets or results of the Group. 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 19 (Revised) Employee 
Benefits will become effective for the Group in its 2014 
accounts. IFRS 11 will require the Group to equity account  
for its joint ventures which are currently proportionately 
consolidated, but it is not expected to have a material effect on 
the results or net assets of the Group. Under IAS 19 (Revised) 
the interest charge on retirement benefit liabilities and the 
expected return on pension plan assets will be replaced by a  
net interest income or expense on net defined benefit assets or 
liabilities based on high-quality corporate bond rates. We are still 
assessing the potential impact, but this is likely to increase our 
reported net finance costs. While the volatility of reported net 
finance costs is expected to increase, adjusted net finance 
costs will be unaffected. We do not expect the effect on the  
net assets of the Group to be material. Other standards and 
interpretations issued, but not yet effective, are not expected  
to have a material effect on the Group’s net assets or results.
Accounting Policies continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
87
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the 
future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated 
based on historical experience, and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these 
estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the current 
financial year are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings and Disputes
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following 
developments in the legal proceedings at each balance  
sheet date, considering the nature of the litigation, claim or 
assessment; the legal processes and potential level of damages 
in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has 
been brought; the progress of the case (including progress after 
the date of the financial statements but before those statements 
are issued); the opinions or views of legal counsel and other 
advisers; experience of similar cases and any decision of the 
Group’s management as to how it will respond to the litigation, 
claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Group’s assessments at any time do not 
reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of 
any claim, its future financial statements may be materially 
affected, with an adverse impact upon the Group’s operating 
profit, financial position and liquidity.
A summary of significant legal cases in which the Group is 
currently involved is disclosed in Note 24 Legal Proceedings. 
Property, Plant and Equipment and 
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets (other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette 
trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks) and property, 
plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their 
useful lives which are based on management’s estimates  
of the period over which the assets will generate revenue,  
and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. 
Changes to the estimates used can result in significant 
variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or 
depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite  
lived assets are subject to impairment review. The Group’s 
management undertakes an impairment review annually  
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  
Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment 
review of property, plant and equipment and/or intangible  
assets include the following:
 – significant underperformance relative to historical or projected 
future operating results; 
 – significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired 
assets or the strategy for the overall business; and 
 – significant negative industry or economic trends. 
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related  
to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the 
application of the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect  
the amounts reported in the financial statements, especially  
the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and  
the carrying values of those assets. If business conditions  
were different, or if different assumptions were used in the 
application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely  
that materially different amounts could be reported in the 
Group’s financial statements. Current and future levels of 
volatility and uncertainty over economic conditions are  
important factors in assessing the reasonableness of these 
estimates, assumptions and judgements. 
See notes 9 and 10 to these financial statements.
Retirement Benefits
The costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit retirement 
schemes operating within the Group are determined using 
methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions.  
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18.  
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating  
to the appropriateness of the assumptions. It is important  
to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the 
assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Group’s 
financial statements.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent increase/(decrease) in the 
discount rate would increase/(decrease) the IAS 19 pension 
expense by approximately £1.5 million. We estimate that a  
0.5 per cent decrease/(increase) in the expected return on plan 
assets would increase/(decrease) the IAS 19 pension expense 
by approximately £14 million.
Income Taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions 
and significant judgement is required in determining the 
provision for tax. There are many transactions and calculations 
for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group 
recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes 
that are likely to become due. Where the final tax outcome is 
different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such 
differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
88
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
1 Segment Information
Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses – Tobacco and Logistics. In addition to regularly reviewing results and plans for 
the Tobacco and Logistics businesses, the Operating Executive (which superseded the Chief Executive’s Committee on 1 October 
2010 as the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of IFRS 8) regularly reviewed during the year the performance and 
plans of the Tobacco business analysed on a geographic basis, reflecting the importance of certain individual markets and 
geographic groupings. The segments presented below are therefore the Group’s six Tobacco regions and the Logistics business. 
The information provided to the Operating Executive is used as the basis of the segment revenue and profit disclosures provided 
below, with the geographic analysis of Tobacco based on the location of customers, and central Group costs allocated consistently 
based on management’s assessment of the level of support provided. The main measure of profit used by the Operating Executive 
to assess performance is adjusted operating profit. Segment balance sheet information is not provided to the Operating Executive.
The Tobacco business comprises the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales  
to (but not by) the Logistics business. The Logistics business comprises the distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product 
manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
The Logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated equally, and consequently 
transactions between the Tobacco and Logistics businesses are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reflecting market prices  
for comparable goods and services.
For the purposes of the analysis below, Rest of European Union comprises the EU member states plus Norway, Iceland, 
Liechtenstein and Switzerland. The Cuban joint ventures are included in the Rest of the World. All of the Logistics business  
is located in the European Union.
Tobacco 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2011 2010 
Revenue 21,277 20,210 
Net revenue 6,913 6,793 
Operating profit 2,577 2,490 
Adjusted operating profit 2,924 2,889 
Adjusted operating margin 42.3% 42.5%
Logistics 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2011 2010 
Revenue 8,911 8,980 
Distribution fees 932 936 
Operating profit 67 36 
Adjusted operating profit 183 176 
Adjusted distribution margin 19.6% 18.8%
Revenue
£ million
2011 2010 
Total revenue External revenue Total revenue External revenue
Tobacco
UK 5,030 5,030 5,105 5,105 
Germany 4,147 4,147 3,755 3,755 
Spain 497 56 594 79 
Rest of European Union 5,469 4,945 5,275 4,773 
Americas 1,408 1,408 1,373 1,373 
Rest of the World 4,726 4,726 4,108 4,108 
Total Tobacco 21,277 20,312 20,210 19,193 
Logistics 8,911 8,911 8,980 8,980 
Eliminations (965) – (1,017) – 
Total Group 29,223 29,223 28,173 28,173 
Notes to the Financial Statements Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
89
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Tobacco net revenue
£ million 2011 2010 
UK 869 894 
Germany 879 850 
Spain 497 592 
Rest of European Union 1,592 1,521 
Americas 731 726 
Rest of the World 2,345 2,210 
Total Tobacco 6,913 6,793 
Following a change in definition as described in the Accounting Policies, Tobacco net revenue excludes revenue from the sale of 
peripheral and non-tobacco related products of £326 million (2010: £262 million), with prior period data restated accordingly. 
Adjusted operating profit and reconciliation to profit before tax
£ million 2011 2010 
Tobacco
UK 577 614 
Germany 461 432 
Spain 200 268 
Rest of European Union 658 638 
Americas 234 244 
Rest of the World 794 693 
Total Tobacco 2,924 2,889 
Logistics 183 176 
Eliminations (4) 2 
Adjusted operating profit 3,103 3,067 
Acquisition accounting adjustments – Tobacco – (24)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Tobacco (299) (315)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Logistics (103) (136)
Restructuring costs – Tobacco (48) (60)
Restructuring costs – Logistics (13) (4)
Operating profit 2,640 2,528 
Net finance costs (487) (410)
Profit before tax 2,153 2,118 
Other segment information
£ million
2011 2010 
Additions to 
property, plant  
and equipment
Depreciation  
and software 
amortisation
Additions to 
property, plant  
and equipment
Depreciation  
and software 
amortisation
Tobacco
UK 27 26 18 31 
Germany 48 20 119 22 
Spain 16 10 12 9 
Rest of European Union 106 35 51 30 
Americas 15 6 7 3 
Rest of the World 109 37 36 41 
Total Tobacco 321 134 243 136 
Logistics 20 35 26 34 
Total Group 341 169 269 170 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 90
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
1 Segment Information continued
Additional geographic analysis
External revenue and non-current assets are presented for the UK and for individually significant countries.
£ million
2011 2010 
External  
revenue
Non-current 
assets
External  
revenue
Non-current 
assets
UK 5,030 162 5,105 170 
Germany 4,147 3,325 3,755 3,317 
Spain 1,972 4,316 2,254 4,471 
France 3,992 3,479 3,907 3,593 
Rest of European Union 7,948 2,791 7,671 2,822 
Americas 1,408 3,074 1,373 3,104 
Rest of the World 4,726 5,396 4,108 5,453 
Total Group 29,223 22,543 28,173 22,930 
Non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments in associates.
2 Profit Before Taxation
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
£ million 2011 2010 
Raw materials and consumables used 1,740 1,380 
Operating lease charges 65 57 
Net foreign exchange gains (66) (10)
Write down of inventories 28 62 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) (3)
Impairment of trade receivables (1) 3 
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates
£ million 2011 2010 
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of the Company 0.4 0.9 
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the accounts of associates of the Company 4.0 3.9 
Fees for other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1 
4.6 4.9 
Advisory services relating to taxation 0.9 0.6 
Compliance services relating to taxation 0.2 0.4 
Other services 0.3 0.1 
6.0 6.0 
It is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund to appoint the auditors to the scheme.  
The Board of Trustees acts independently of Group’s management. The fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in respect  
of the audit of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund were £34,000 (2010: £31,000).
3 Restructuring Costs
£ million 2011 2010 
Employment related (mainly termination) 12 1 
Asset impairments 27 45 
Other operating charges 22 18 
61 64 
Restructuring costs in 2011 include impairments of surplus properties in Spain to reflect current property market conditions, 
amounts relating to integration of our American businesses, manufacturing rationalisation in Spain, and the streamlining of parts  
of our Logistics operations. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
91
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The net charge of £61 million in 2011 includes £30 million of unused restructuring provisions reversed during the period, £30 million 
booked as additional restructuring provisions and £27 million booked as an impairment of property, plant and equipment. The 
remaining charge of £34 million was booked directly to the income statement as these costs did not meet the provisioning 
requirements of IAS 37.
Restructuring costs in 2010 included charges for previously announced restructuring activity and further rationalisation and 
reorganisation of our manufacturing base, including the closure of our tubes factory in Woodstock, Canada and our cigarette factory 
in Tetouan, Morocco. Asset impairments in 2010 related mainly to reductions in the carrying value of surplus property acquired 
through the Altadis acquisition to reflect current property market conditions. 
The net charge of £64 million in 2010 included £39 million of unused restructuring provisions reversed during the period, £38 million 
booked as additional restructuring provisions and £45 million booked as an impairment of property, plant and equipment. The 
remaining charge of £20 million was booked directly to the income statement as these costs did not meet the provisioning 
requirements of IAS 37.
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
4 Directors and Employees
Employment costs
£ million 2011 2010 
Wages and salaries 911 945 
Social security costs 202 199 
Pension costs (note 18) 67 63 
Share-based payments (note 21) 26 28 
1,206 1,235 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions 
requiring disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74. These disclosures 
form part of the financial statements. 
Number of people employed by the Group during the year
2011 2010 
At 30 September Average At 30 September Average
Tobacco 31,600 31,200 31,500 30,900 
Logistics 6,600 6,700 6,800 6,900 
38,200 37,900 38,300 37,800
Number of people employed by the Group by location during the year
2011 2010 
At 30 September Average At 30 September Average
European Union 17,300 17,100 17,200 17,300 
Americas 9,100 9,100 9,500 8,900 
Rest of the World 11,800 11,700 11,600 11,600 
38,200 37,900 38,300 37,800 
5 Net Finance Costs
£ million 2011 2010 
Interest on bank deposits (18) (19)
Expected return on retirement benefit assets (178) (181)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges (445) (569)
Exchange gains on underlying borrowings (144) (75)
Investment income (785) (844)
Interest on bank and other loans 580 619 
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 180 186 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans 8 15 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges 428 359 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments hedging underlying borrowings 76 75 
Finance costs 1,272 1,254 
Net finance costs 487 410  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 92
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
5 Net Finance Costs continued
Reconciliation from reported net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs
£ million 2011 2010 
Reported net finance costs 487 410 
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges 445 569 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges (428) (359)
Exchange gains on underlying borrowings 144 75 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments hedging underlying borrowings (76) (75)
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments providing commercial hedges 85 210 
Expected return on retirement benefit assets 178 181 
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities (180) (186)
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans (8) (15)
Post-employment benefit net financing cost (10) (20)
Adjusted net finance costs 562 600
6 Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
£ million 2011 2010 
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 27% (2010: 28%) being the rate for the year (29) (37)
Overseas taxation 350 534 
Total current tax 321 497 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 16 99 
Total tax charged to the income statement 337 596 
During the year ended 30 September 2011 certain outstanding matters were resolved with tax authorities. The reported tax charge 
for the period includes a release of £205 million of tax provisions following resolution of these matters. This release is excluded from 
the adjusted tax charge to aid comparability and understanding of the Group’s performance. 
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported profit before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted 
measure of earnings disclosed in note 8.
£ million 2011 2010 
Reported taxation 337 596 
Tax on acquisition accounting adjustments – 4 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 77 74 
Tax on net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments providing commercial hedges (23) (59)
Tax on post-employment benefits net financing cost 4 7 
Tax on restructuring costs 17 15 
Tax provisions released 205 – 
Adjusted tax charge 617 637 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK corporation tax rate for the 
year of 27 per cent (2010: 28 per cent) as follows:
£ million 2011 2010 
Profit before tax 2,153 2,118 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 27% (2010: 28%) 581 593 
Tax effects of:
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (58) (20)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets – (3)
Permanent differences 16 39 
Tax provisions released (205) – 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 3 (13)
Total tax charged to the income statement 337 596  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
93
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Movement on current tax account
£ million 2011 2010 
At 1 October (602) (499)
Charged to the income statement (321) (497)
Credited to equity – 2 
Cash paid 529 365 
Exchange movements 1 10 
Other movements 1 17 
At 30 September (392) (602)
7 Dividends
Dividend per share in respect of financial year
Pence 2011 2010 2009 
Interim 28.1 24.3 21.0 
Final 67.0 60.0 52.0 
Total 95.1 84.3 73.0 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and final dividends in respect of a year are paid and 
recognised in the following financial period.
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary equity holders in the year
£ million 2011 2010 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous financial year 608 527 
Interim dividend 284 246 
892 773
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 67.0p per share amounts to a proposed final dividend 
payment of £674 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2011, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2011 will be £958 million (2010: £854 million).
8 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares 
purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account  
the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised.  
No instruments have been excluded from the calculation for any period on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
£ million 2011 2010 
Earnings: basic and diluted 1,796 1,505 
Millions of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 1,013.0 1,013.8 
Potentially dilutive share options 3.0 3.1 
Shares for diluted earnings per share 1,016.0 1,016.9
Pence
Basic earnings per share 177.3 148.5 
Diluted earnings per share 176.8 148.0  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 94
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
8 Earnings Per Share continued
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share
£ million unless otherwise indicated
2011 2010 
Earnings  
per share  
(pence) Earnings
Earnings  
per share  
(pence) Earnings
Reported basic 177.3 1,796 148.5 1,505 
Acquisition accounting adjustments – – 2.0 20 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 32.1 325 37.1 377 
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments  
providing commercial hedges (6.1) (62) (14.9) (151)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 0.6 6 1.3 13 
Restructuring costs 4.3 44 4.8 49 
Tax provisions released (20.2) (205) – – 
Adjusted 188.0 1,904 178.8 1,813 
Adjusted diluted 187.4 1,904 178.3 1,813 
9 Intangible Assets
2011
£ million Goodwill Trademarks 
Supply  
agreements Software Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2010 13,076 7,501 1,673 113 22,363 
Additions – – – 22 22 
Disposals/retirements – – (209) (5) (214)
Reclassifications – – – 13 13 
Exchange movements (41) (16) (8) (1) (66)
At 30 September 2011 13,035 7,485 1,456 142 22,118 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2010 21 884 453 64 1,422 
Amortisation charge for the year – 280 122 18 420 
Disposals/retirements – – (209) (3) (212)
Reclassifications – – – 5 5 
Exchange movements – 1 (3) (2) (4)
At 30 September 2011 21 1,165 363 82 1,631 
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 13,014 6,320 1,093 60 20,487
2010
£ million Goodwill Trademarks 
Supply 
agreements Software Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2009 13,696 7,782 1,759 102 23,339 
Acquisition accounting adjustment (41) – – – (41)
Additions – – – 14 14 
Disposals – – – (2) (2)
Exchange movements (579) (281) (86) (1) (947)
At 30 September 2010 13,076 7,501 1,673 113 22,363 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2009 21 612 299 50 982 
Amortisation charge for the year – 281 170 17 468 
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Exchange movements – (9) (16) (2) (27)
At 30 September 2010 21 884 453 64 1,422 
Net book value
At 30 September 2010 13,055 6,617 1,220 49 20,941
Intangible amortisation and impairment are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
95
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Supply agreements includes Logistics customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba. The exclusive supply 
arrangement in Morocco became fully amortised during the year ending 30 September 2011. All were acquired under the purchase 
of Altadis.
The £41 million reduction in goodwill in 2010 reflects an adjustment in respect of the Reemtsma acquisition and is more fully 
described in note 28.
Amortisation and impairment in respect of acquired intangible assets are treated as reconciling items between reported operating 
profit and adjusted operating profit. The adjustment comprises the amortisation and impairment charges in respect of goodwill, 
trademarks and supply agreements.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment review
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs). For the Tobacco 
business these are based on the geographic areas in which the Group operates. A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite lives is set out below.
£ million
2011 2010 
Goodwill
Intangible  
assets with 
indefinite lives Goodwill
Intangible  
assets with 
indefinite lives
Spain 1,511 – 1,520 – 
Other European Union 4,814 126 4,836 127 
Americas 1,842 106 1,828 105 
Rest of the World 2,868 340 2,885 341 
Cuban cigar joint ventures 291 252 289 250 
Tobacco 11,326 824 11,358 823 
Logistics 1,688 – 1,697 – 
13,014 824 13,055 823 
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 (mainly Other European Union and Rest of the World), 
Commonwealth Brands in 2007 (Americas) and Altadis in 2008 (all CGUs).
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any 
indications that impairment may have arisen. The value of a cash-generating unit is based on value-in-use calculations which use 
cash flow projections derived from three year financial plans which are approved by the Board annually. The plans are based on 
detailed bottom-up market-by-market forecasts of projected sales volumes for each product line, and reflect, on an individual 
market basis, numerous assumptions and estimates regarding anticipated changes in market size, prices and duty regimes, 
consumer uptrading and downtrading, consumer preferences and other changes in product mix. The estimates and assumptions 
are based on long-term market trends, market data, anticipated regulatory developments, and management experience and 
expectations. We consider that pricing, market size, market shares and cost inflation are the key assumptions used in our plans.
The compound annual growth rates implicit in these value-in-use calculations are shown below. Cash flows beyond the plan period 
are extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates of between 2.7 per cent and 3.0 per cent per annum. Discount rates used 
are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk profiles of the CGUs. Pre-tax discount rates 
ranged from 8.7 per cent to 11.3 per cent.
Growth rates used
Initial  
growth rate
Long-term  
rate
Spain 10.9% 2.7% 
Other European Union 4.2% 3.0% 
Americas 10.4% 3.0% 
Rest of the World 11.8% 3.0% 
Cuban cigar joint ventures 7.6% 3.0% 
Logistics 4.3% 3.0%
The initial growth rate is the weighted average compound annual growth rate based on the first three years’ cash flows used in the 
value-in-use calculations as described above and using 2011 as the base year.
For Other European Union, Rest of the World and Cuban cigar joint ventures these initial growth rates are broadly consistent with 
the actual constant currency growth rates since 2009 (i.e. after, and excluding the effects of, the acquisition of Altadis).
The initial growth rate for Spain, at 10.9 per cent, is in part a reflection of 2011, the base year from which growth rates are 
calculated, having been adversely impacted by three specific factors. Firstly, changes to excise duty in January 2010 and  
December 2010 led to increases in retail prices for consumers. Secondly, the January 2011 extension of the ban on smoking in 
public places, particularly in combination with the increased retail prices following duty increases, contributed to a reduction in 
market volumes. Thirdly, competitor pricing activity in the spring and summer months of 2011 significantly reduced margins  
during that period, although pricing in Spain is now back to the levels before the competitor activity took place. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 96
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
9 Intangible Assets continued
Our experience in other markets is that the introduction or extension of smoking bans has a one-off adverse effect on volumes, but 
that this is shortly followed by longer term trends returning to normal patterns. In addition, market activity in Spain in the latter part  
of 2011 has provided evidence of amelioration of the unusual recent conditions. Consequently, management believes that, with the 
one-off effects of the smoking ban having passed, and with a more stable pricing environment having now emerged and expected 
to continue, there are reasonable prospects for growth in the Spanish market over the next three years and beyond. 
The initial growth rate for the Americas, at 10.4 per cent, reflects the anticipated benefits of the re-organisation of our Americas 
business to combine our cigarette and mass market cigar sales forces, aligned with a single unified support structure, together with 
a number of other related initiatives. 
The initial growth rate for our Logistics unit reflects the realisation of future benefits from our ongoing programme to reduce costs 
and to develop profitable lines of business. 
Long-term growth rates are the weighted average compound annual growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the initial 
three years. They are based on management’s long-term expectations, taking account of industry specific factors such as the 
nature of our products, the role of excise in government fiscal policy, and relatively stable and predictable long-term macro trends  
in the Tobacco industry. The long-term growth rate for Spain has been reduced from 3.0 per cent to 2.7 per cent in light of current 
uncertainty over prospects for the Spanish economy. 
Sensitivity of impairment tests to changes in assumptions
The impairment test for Spain indicated headroom of £30 million, and that an impairment would result in the event of either an 
increase in the discount rate of 10 basis points from 10.6 per cent, or a reduction of 30 basis points in the initial growth rate,  
or a 10 basis point reduction in the long-term growth rate, or a 1 per cent reduction in the value of overall cash flows.
The impairment test for Americas indicated headroom of £410 million, and that an impairment would result in the event of either an 
increase in the discount rate of 110 basis points from 11.3 per cent or a 130 basis point reduction in the long-term growth rate.
In addition to the initial growth rates shown above applied to cash flows arising in existing markets, the valuation of the Cuban cigar 
joint ventures includes assumptions about the timing and extent of cash flows from entry to new markets. The impairment test for 
the Cuban cigar joint ventures indicated headroom of £160 million, and that an increase of 160 basis points in the discount rate 
from 10.0 per cent would result in an impairment. 
We do not consider any other reasonable movement in assumptions relating to Spain, the Americas and Cuban cigar joint ventures 
would result in an impairment. For the rest of the Group, any reasonable movement in the assumptions used in the impairment tests 
would not result in an impairment.
No impairment charges have been recognised in the year in respect of goodwill and intangible assets.
10 Property, Plant and Equipment
2011 
£ million Property
Plant and 
equipment
Fixtures and  
motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2010 1,113 1,492 410 3,015 
Additions 8 270 63 341 
Disposals (5) (36) (17) (58)
Reclassifications 16 (110) (13) (107)
Exchange movements (7) (40) (6) (53)
At 30 September 2011 1,125 1,576 437 3,138 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2010 118 720 206 1,044 
Depreciation charge for the year 16 91 44 151 
Impairment 27 – – 27 
Disposals (1) (21) (16) (38)
Reclassifications 3 (64) (1) (62)
Exchange movements (2) (17) (3) (22)
At 30 September 2011 161 709 230 1,100 
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 964 867 207 2,038 
The net book value above includes property of £25 million (2010: £37 million) held under a finance lease.
Certain spares and consumables of individually low value have been reclassified from plant and equipment to other inventory as this 
better reflects their nature and pattern of use. The net book value of these items was £31 million. Also during the year a number of 
other items were reclassified including £8 million, at net book value, of software from fixtures and motor vehicles to intangible assets.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
97
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
2010 
£ million Property
Plant and 
equipment
Fixtures and  
motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2009 1,147 1,375 379 2,901 
Additions 14 197 58 269 
Disposals (9) (46) (18) (73)
Reclassifications 13 (17) 4 – 
Exchange movements (52) (17) (13) (82)
At 30 September 2010 1,113 1,492 410 3,015 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2009 65 647 179 891 
Depreciation charge for the year 14 99 40 153 
Impairment 43 2 – 45 
Disposals (1) (15) (15) (31)
Reclassifications – (7) 7 – 
Exchange movements (3) (6) (5) (14)
At 30 September 2010 118 720 206 1,044 
Net book value
At 30 September 2010 995 772 204 1,971 
The impairment charges in 2011 and 2010 relate mainly to reductions in the carrying value of surplus property acquired through the 
Altadis acquisition to reflect current property market conditions, which have been treated as restructuring costs.
11 Joint Ventures
The principal joint ventures are Corporación Habanos, S.A. Cuba and Altabana S.L., Spain. Summarised financial information for the 
Group’s share of joint ventures, which are accounted for under the proportional consolidation method, is shown below:
2011 
£ million
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total
Revenue 35 96 10 141 
Profit after taxation 10 13 1 24 
Non-current assets 196 11 6 213 
Current assets 48 59 12 119 
Total assets 244 70 18 332 
Current liabilities (45) (22) (3) (70)
Non-current liabilities (5) (1) – (6)
Total liabilities (50) (23) (3) (76)
Net assets 194 47 15 256 
2010
£ million
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total
Revenue 39 81 10 130 
Profit after taxation 5 7 2 14 
Non-current assets 201 11 7 219 
Current assets 42 60 10 112 
Total assets 243 71 17 331 
Current liabilities (26) (21) (2) (49)
Non-current liabilities (33) (2) – (35)
Total liabilities (59) (23) (2) (84)
Net assets 184 48 15 247  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 98
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
11 Joint Ventures continued
Transactions and balances with joint ventures
£ million 2011 2010 
Sales to 53 48 
Purchases from 77 80 
Accounts receivable from 8 9 
Current loans to 6 12 
Accounts payable to (10) (9)
12 Inventories
£ million 2011 2010 
Raw materials 928 961 
Work in progress 63 57 
Finished inventories 1,887 1,824 
Other inventories 177 177 
3,055 3,019
Other inventories mainly comprise duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, 
because of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. We estimate that around  
£120 million (2010: £140 million) of leaf tobacco held within raw materials will not be utilised within a year of the balance sheet date.
During the year £31 million of spare parts were reclassified from plant and equipment to other inventories as this better reflects their 
nature and pattern of use.
13 Trade and Other Receivables
£ million
2011 2010 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade receivables 2,790 – 2,810 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (55) – (55) – 
Net trade receivables 2,735 – 2,755 – 
Other receivables 76 81 145 83 
Prepayments and accrued income 86 19 100 14 
2,897 100 3,000 97 
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows:
£ million
2011 2010 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Within credit terms 2,664 – 2,663 – 
Past due by less than 3 months 56 – 44 – 
Past due by more than 3 months 15 – 48 – 
Amounts that are impaired 55 – 55 – 
2,790 – 2,810 –  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
99
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
14 Cash and Cash Equivalents
£ million 2011 2010 
Cash at bank and in hand 1,153 741 
Short-term deposits and other liquid assets 18 32 
1,171 773 
£233 million (2010: £231 million) of total cash and cash equivalents is held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer 
the funds abroad. Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a 
reasonable period of time.
15 Trade and Other Payables
£ million
2011 2010 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade payables 1,169 – 1,248 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 6,015 – 6,003 – 
Other payables 126 – 145 – 
Accruals and deferred income 307 19 314 21 
7,617 19 7,710 21 
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments
(i) Management of financial risk
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, Group Treasury, which is responsible for the management of the financial risks 
of the Group, together with its financing and liquidity requirements. It does not operate as a profit centre, nor does it enter into 
speculative transactions. The Group Treasury Committee (GTC) oversees the operation of Group Treasury in accordance with terms 
of reference set out by the Board. The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions. The GTC currently comprises the 
Finance Director; Director of Finance Group Sales and Group Marketing; Director of Investor Communications; Cigar Business Unit 
Finance Director; Group Financial Controller; Senior Group Management Accountant Manufacturing; Group Treasurer and Interim 
Deputy Group Treasurer. The GTC agrees a framework which sets out the current expectations and boundaries to assist in the 
effective oversight of Group Treasury activities, covering all key areas within Group Treasury. The Group Treasurer reports on a 
regular basis to the Board, including the provision of a monthly treasury report which is also provided to the GTC.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies, foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and non-sterling derivatives.
In 2011, 83 per cent of revenue (2010: 82 per cent) and 81 per cent of adjusted profit from operations (2010: 80 per cent) was  
in markets outside the UK. Certain sales in these markets are invoiced in currencies other than the functional currency of the  
selling company.
Material costs denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of subsidiaries include the purchase of tobacco leaf, 
which is sourced from various countries but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging materials which are sourced from 
various countries and purchased in a number of currencies. After taking into account other US dollar inflows the Group currently 
does not consider this foreign exchange cash flow risk to be material enough to hedge.
The Group has a policy of managing its balance sheet translation risk by funding acquisitions and the underlying business assets 
with borrowings (post cross currency swaps) in the currency of the underlying net assets. This also results in foreign currency profits 
from operations being partially offset by foreign currency interest costs thereby minimising the translation exposure on foreign 
currency profits after tax.
The Group issues debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new finance and has a policy of 
using derivative financial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and foreign exchange swaps where necessary, to change  
the debt into the desired currency. At 30 September 2011, approximately 36 per cent (2010: 27 per cent) of adjusted net debt  
was denominated in sterling, 48 per cent in euro (2010: 50 per cent) and 16 per cent in US dollars (2010: 23 per cent). 
The Group’s sterling dividend to shareholders is partly sourced from foreign subsidiary earnings. In order to manage the foreign 
exchange cash flow risk, and to provide greater certainty as to the amount of sterling available to pay expected future dividends,  
the Group has entered into transactional cross currency swaps maturing between now and 2015 that will convert expected euro 
dividends from subsidiaries into sterling. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 100
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents. Borrowings at variable rates expose the 
Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Group Treasury 
monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities. The Group’s financial results are currently principally 
exposed to gains or losses arising from fluctuations in sterling, euro and US dollar interest rates.
In order to manage the interest rate risk on its borrowings, the Group separates its borrowing activities from its interest rate risk 
management decisions by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new finance and 
uses derivative financial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps where necessary, to change the debt 
into floating interest rates shortly after issue. The Group then transacts interest rate swaps at other times for different notional 
amounts and for different maturities to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk. At 30 September 2011, 24 per cent 
(2010: 29 per cent) of adjusted net debt was at a floating rate of interest, 76 per cent (2010: 70 per cent) at a fixed rate of interest 
and none (2010: 1 per cent) floating within a set range.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure on a regular basis and reports the position monthly to the Board and GTC. This report 
shows the profit or loss impact of a defined interest rate shift for each of the major currencies of borrowings and the forecast 
percentage of debt fixed for at least the next ten years.
The Group has no material interest rate repricing risk since the interest rates of derivative financial instruments reset quarterly, 
resulting in the interest being paid or received approximating current market rates.
Sensitivity analysis
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that illustrates the estimated impact on the income statement and other comprehensive income 
due to hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates in relation to all of the Group’s financial instruments. 
The Group has considered movements in interest rates and sterling foreign exchange rates over the last three years and has 
concluded that the rates shown in the table below represent reasonably possible changes. The impacts on income and other 
comprehensive income of these changes are shown in the table below. The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis  
that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of 
financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the net investment hedge designations in place at  
30 September 2011. The sensitivity analysis does not reflect any change to revenue or non-finance costs that may result from 
changing interest or exchange rates. All financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of subsidiary companies are 
excluded from the analysis. The analysis also excludes instruments that expose the Group to interest rate and foreign exchange  
risk where such risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
£ million
30 September 2011 30 September 2010
Income  
(loss)/gain
Other 
comprehensive 
income  
(loss)/gain
Income  
(loss)/gain
Other  
comprehensive 
income  
(loss)/gain
100 basis point increase/50 basis point decrease in  
GBP interest rates (17)/9 – (14)/7 – 
100 basis point increase/decrease in euro interest rates (4)/4 – (9)/9 – 
100 basis point increase/25 basis point decrease in  
US dollar interest rates (2)/1 – (7)/2 – 
10% appreciation/depreciation of the euro (230)/188 (1,551)/1,269 (82)/67 (1,054)/863 
10% appreciation/depreciation of the US dollar (129)/105 (7)/6 (5)/4 (194)/159 
The impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates reflects the effect on net finance costs in respect of the Group’s 
floating rate debt at 30 September 2011.
The impact in the income statement from foreign exchange rate movements primarily relates to financial instruments that 
commercially hedge net investments, but are not accounted for as hedges under IAS 39 (although they are commercially effective). 
This value is expected to be fully offset by the retranslation of the commercially hedged foreign currency net assets leaving a net 
impact on shareholders’ funds of zero. Any gain or loss which arises is excluded from our adjusted performance measures. 
The other comprehensive income impact shown for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial 
instruments hedging net investments. This value will be more than fully offset by the retranslation of the hedged foreign currency  
net assets. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
101
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from its trade receivables due from customers, as well as from cash and cash deposits 
and the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments transacted with financial institutions. The Group considers its maximum 
credit risk to be £4,613 million at 30 September 2011 (2010: £4,153 million).
The Group has some significant concentrations of customer credit risk. However, the Group has implemented policies to ensure that 
sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and obtains guarantees or other means of credit support 
to reduce the risk where this is considered to be necessary. Analysis of trade and other receivables is provided in note 13.
The Group has a policy of having no concentrations of credit risk from financial institutions that are in excess of limits agreed by the 
Board. The Group has placed cash deposits and entered into derivative financial instruments with a diversified group of financial 
institutions with suitable credit ratings in order to manage its credit risk to any one financial institution. 
The table below summarises the Group’s major financial institution counterparties by credit rating and balances at  
30 September 2011:
Counterparty
30 September 2011 30 September 2010
S&P  
credit rating
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk  
£ million
S&P  
credit rating
Maximum 
exposure to  
credit risk  
£ million
Financial institution A A+ 223 A+ 137 
Financial institution B AA 131 AA 80 
Financial institution C AA 127 AA 49 
Financial institution D AA 112 AA 23 
Financial institution E A 98 A 16 
Financial institution F A- 95 A- – 
Financial institution G A 90 A 58 
Management do not expect these counterparties to default on their current obligations.
Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, which represents having insufficient funds to meet the financing needs of the Group.  
To manage this risk the Group has a policy of actively maintaining a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities  
that are designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds for the forecast requirements of the Group over the short  
to medium term. At 30 September 2011 the Group had £2,498 million (2010: £1,798 million) of undrawn committed facilities, 
maturing in December 2015.
As well as forecasting and monitoring the Group’s core liquidity needs, the Group Treasury function is in regular dialogue with 
subsidiary companies to ensure their liquidity needs are met. Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital 
and retained earnings, loans from central finance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries 
in appropriate currencies. Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by subsidiary companies 
are remitted to Group Treasury where practical and possible.
The table below summarises the Group’s financial liabilities by maturity based on their contractual cash flows. The contractual  
cash flows disclosed in the table include interest to be paid, are undiscounted and have been calculated using spot rates at the 
relevant balance sheet date. The balance sheet amounts disclosed in the table for derivative financial liabilities include collateral of 
£278 million (2010: £243 million) which has been transferred to counterparties in respect of certain derivatives with a negative fair 
value. The future cash inflows arising from collateral transferred have not been allocated to time periods since there is no reasonable 
basis upon which to do so. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 102
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
At 30 September 2011
£ million
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual cash flows
Total
Less than  
1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years
More than  
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 170 170 170 – – – 
Capital market issuance 10,010 13,355 2,520 511 5,011 5,313 
Trade payables 1,169 1,169 1,169 – – – 
Finance lease liabilities 23 25 3 22 – – 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 11,372 14,719 3,862 533 5,011 5,313 
Derivative financial liabilities
Net settled derivatives 652 851 173 152 356 170 
Gross settled derivatives 409 
– receipts (8,531) (3,046) (1,233) (2,003) (2,249)
– payments 9,107 3,241 1,298 2,093 2,475 
Total derivative financial liabilities 1,061 1,427 368 217 446 396
At 30 September 2010
£ million
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual cash flows
Total
Less than  
1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years
More than  
5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans  2,061  2,087  1,549  538  –  – 
Capital market issuance 8,271  11,513  530  1,942  3,304  5,737 
Trade payables 1,248  1,248  1,248  –  –  – 
Finance lease liabilities 25  28  3  3 22 –
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 11,605  14,876  3,330  2,483  3,326  5,737 
Derivative financial liabilities
Net settled derivatives 616 1,150  226  225  413  286 
Gross settled derivatives 394
– receipts (6,993) (1,975) (1,553) (2,765) (700)
– payments 7,449  1,881  1,739  2,969  860 
Total derivative financial liabilities 1,010  1,606  132  411  617  446 
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk or financial instrument price risk other than its pension assets disclosed in 
note 18. The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be fluctuations in the price of tobacco leaf. As with other 
agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations influence tobacco 
plantings in those countries where tobacco is grown. Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that may 
affect crop quality or supply and so lead to changes in price. The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf 
from a number of different countries and counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held.
Capital risk management
The Group manages the capital structure in an efficient manner in order to minimise the cost of capital whilst ensuring that we have 
access to ongoing sources of finance such as the debt capital markets. The Group defines capital as adjusted net debt (see note 
26) and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). The only externally 
imposed capital requirements for the Group are interest cover and gearing covenants under the terms of the Senior Bank Facility, 
with which we have fully complied during both the current period and the prior period.
The Group manages the capital structure to maintain an investment grade credit rating and has taken and will continue to take the 
appropriate measures to maintain this, including consideration of the efficient return of capital to shareholders through an 
appropriate mix of share buy backs and dividends. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
103
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Fair value estimation
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities less than one year, other than derivatives, are considered to be 
approximate to their book values. In accordance with the IFRS 7 classification hierarchy all derivative financial instruments are 
classified as Level 2. This means that they are valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data such as  
yield curves and foreign exchange rates.
(ii) Borrowings
The Group’s borrowings at amortised cost at the balance sheet date are as follows:
£ million 2011 2010
Current borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 136 329
Capital market issuance:
European commercial paper 521  – 
£350m 6.875% notes due June 2012 357  – 
€1,250m 5.0% notes due June 2012 1,090  – 
Total current borrowings 2,104 329
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans  34 1,732
Capital market issuance:
£350m 6.875% notes due June 2012 – 357
€1,250m 5.0% notes due June 2012 – 1,096
€500m 5.125% notes due October 2013 450 453
€1,200m 4.375% notes due November 2013 1,070 1,076
€750m 7.25% notes due September 2014 647 650
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 414 409
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 1,356 1,363
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 470 470
€850m 4.5% notes due July 2018 738  – 
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 210 210
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 509 509
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 1,053 1,053
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 625 625
£500m 5.5% notes due September 2026 500  – 
Total non-current borrowings 8,076 10,003
Total borrowings 10,180 10,332
Current borrowings and non-current borrowings at 30 September 2011 include interest payable of £19 million (2010: £1 million) and 
£278 million (2010: £291 million) respectively.
Certain borrowings drawn under revolving credit facilities have been classified as non-current borrowings, in accordance with the 
ultimate maturity date of those facilities, whereas contractual cash flows will be required within 12 months of the balance sheet date 
and may then be redrawn.
The Group has not defaulted on any loans during the year (2010: no defaults). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 104
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
(iii) Currency analysis and effective interest rates of financial assets and financial liabilities
The currency denomination, maturities (defined as the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date) 
and weighted average interest rates of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities (excluding derivatives) at 30 September 2011 are 
as follows:
Maturity
Total  
£ million
Weighted  
average  
%
Less than  
1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years
More than  
5 years
£ million % £ million % £ million % £ million %
Assets/(liabilities)  
(before the impact of 
cross currency swaps  
and interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash 
equivalents
Sterling 1 0.3 – – – – – – 1 0.3 
Euro 756 1.0 – – – – – – 756 1.0 
US dollars 22 0.1 – – – – – – 22 0.1 
Other 392 3.3 – – – – – – 392 3.3 
Total cash and cash 
equivalents 1,171 – – – 1,171
Weighted average 
receivable interest rate 1.8 1.8
Trade receivables
Sterling 571 – – – – – – – 571 –
Euro 1,871 – – – – – – – 1,871 –
US dollars 58 – – – – – – – 58 –
Other 290 – – – – – – – 290 –
Total trade receivables 2,790 – – – 2,790
Trade payables
Sterling (56) – – – – – – – (56) –
Euro (925) – – – – – – – (925) –
US dollars (50) – – – – – – – (50) –
Other (138) – – – – – – – (138) –
Total trade payables (1,169) – – – (1,169)
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (382) 6.4 – – – – (3,367) 7.4 (3,749) 7.3 
Euro (1,616) 3.4 – – (3,971) 6.0 (738) 4.4 (6,325) 5.2 
US dollars (106) 1.2 – – – – – – (106) 1.2 
Total borrowings (2,104) – (3,971) (4,105) (10,180)
Borrowings – by class  
of instrument
Bank borrowings (136) 1.2 – – (34) 2.6 – – (170) 1.5 
Capital market issuance (1,968) 4.1 – – (3,937) 6.1 (4,105) 6.9 (10,010) 6.0 
Total borrowings (2,104) – (3,971) (4,105) (10,180)
Weighted average 
payable interest rate 3.9 – 6.0 6.9 5.9
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are floating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in  
the case of sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuances in place  
at 30 September 2011 bear interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a fixed rate throughout their lives.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in  
section (iv) below. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
105
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The currency denomination, maturities (defined as the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date) 
and weighted average interest rates of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities (excluding derivatives) at 30 September 2010  
are as follows:
Maturity
Total  
£ million
Weighted  
average  
%
Less than 
1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years
More than 
5 years
£ million % £ million % £ million % £ million % 
Assets/(liabilities)  
(before the impact of 
cross currency swaps  
and interest rate swaps)
Cash and cash 
equivalents
Sterling 7 0.3 – – – – – – 7 0.3 
Euro 255 0.1 – – – – – – 255 0.1 
US dollars 17 0.1 – – – – – – 17 0.1 
Other 494 3.3 – – – – – – 494 3.3 
Total cash and cash 
equivalents 773 – – – 773
Weighted average 
receivable interest rate 2.2 – – – 2.2
Trade receivables
Sterling 514 – – – – – – – 514 – 
Euro 1,964 – – – – – – – 1,964 – 
US dollars 104 – – – – – – – 104 – 
Other 228 – – – – – – – 228 – 
Total trade receivables 2,810 – – – 2,810
Trade payables
Sterling (40) – – – – – – – (40) – 
Euro (990) – – – – – – – (990) – 
US dollars (124) – – – – – – – (124) – 
Other (94) – – – – – – – (94) – 
Total trade payables (1,248) – – – (1,248)
Borrowings – by currency
Sterling (278) 1.4 – – (357) 6.8 (2,868) 7.8 (3,503) 7.2 
Euro (29) 2.9 (700) 1.5 (3,274) 4.5 (1,772) 7.0 (5,775) 4.9 
US dollars (21) 1.9 (1,032) 1.0 – – – – (1,053) 1.0 
Other (1) 3.7 – – – – – – (1) 3.7 
Total borrowings (329) (1,732) (3,631) (4,640) (10,332)
Borrowings – by class  
of instrument
Bank borrowings (329) 1.6 (1,732) 1.2 – – – – (2,061) 1.3 
Capital market issuance – – – – (3,631) 4.7 (4,640) 7.5 (8,271) 6.3 
Total borrowings (329) (1,732) (3,631) (4,640) (10,332)
Weighted average 
payable interest rate 1.6 1.2 4.7 7.5 5.3
The effective interest rates shown in the table above have been calculated excluding the accrued interest balances.
The bank borrowings are floating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in  
the case of sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuances in place  
at 30 September 2010 bear interest (pre interest rate swaps) at a fixed rate throughout their life.
The impact of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the resultant interest rate risk arising is shown in  
section (iv) below.
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 106
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
(iv) Derivative financial instruments
IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the  
fair value being recognised in the income statement unless the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under IFRS and  
the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial instrument as a hedge. The Group hedges underlying exposures in an 
efficient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially 
effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has  
decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments. However, the Group does  
apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s  
foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise income statement volatility. See section (vi) below for details.  
The information contained in sections (ii) and (iii) above shows the underlying borrowing position before the effect of interest rate 
swaps and cross currency swaps. 
The Group separates its borrowing activities from its interest rate risk management decisions by issuing debt in the market or 
markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new finance and using derivative financial instruments, such as cross 
currency swaps and interest rate swaps, to change the debt into the desired currency and into floating interest rates shortly  
after issue.
The following tables set out the Group’s borrowings and derivative financial instruments at 30 September 2011, and demonstrate 
the Group’s use of derivative financial instruments to manage the Group’s foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate 
exposures. The tables present the nominal value of such instruments used to calculate the contractual payments under such 
contracts, analysed by maturity date, together with the related weighted average interest rate where relevant. 
Seven of the interest rate swaps have embedded options and assumptions have been made based on market information and from 
counterparties’ expectations at 30 September 2011 to determine whether, and if so when, such options are likely to be exercised  
in order to determine the probable maturity date. Details of these options and the expected maturity dates are included in the 
footnotes to the relevant tables. The actual maturity date could be earlier or later depending upon future market conditions and a 
cancellation would not result in a cash flow other than in respect of interest outstanding at the cancellation date. The effect of the 
cancellation of any of these interest rate swaps would be to reduce the proportion of the Group’s borrowings that were at a fixed 
rate, increasing the Group’s exposure to cash flow interest rate risk. Shortly after any such cancellation Group Treasury would, if 
deemed necessary as part of the management of interest rate risk, transact further interest rate swaps to replace the cancelled 
swaps. It is currently believed that there is sufficient appetite amongst counterparties for such transactions.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new finance.
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2011  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in
Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter 
Capital market issuance
European commercial paper 521 – – – – – 521 
£350m 6.875% notes due June 2012 350 – – – – – 350 
€1,250m 5.0% notes due June 2012 1,076 – – – – – 1,076 
€500m 5.125% notes due October 2013 – – 430 – – – 430 
€1,200m 4.375% notes due November 2013 – – 1,033 – – – 1,033 
€750m 7.25% notes due September 2014 – – 645 – – – 645 
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 – – – – 430 – 430 
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 – – – – 1,291 – 1,291 
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 – – – – – 450 450 
€850m 4.5% notes due July 2018 – – – – – 731 731 
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 – – – – – 200 200 
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 – – – – – 500 500 
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 – – – – – 1,000 1,000 
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 – – – – – 600 600 
£500m 5.5% notes due September 2026 – – – – – 500 500 
Interest accruals, discounts and fair  
value adjustments 21 – 59 – 49 124 253 
Total capital market issuance 1,968 – 2,167 – 1,770 4,105 10,010 
Bank loans and overdrafts, borrowed at  
LIBOR (or equivalent) plus a margin at the  
time of borrowing 136 – – 34 – – 170 
Total bank borrowings 136 – – 34 – – 170 
Total borrowings 2,104 – 2,167 34 1,770 4,105 10,180  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
107
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Derivative financial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and into floating interest 
rates, per the following table:
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2011  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in
Total
Fair value at  
30 September 2011
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Asset Liability
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling fixed,  
pay euro variable:
Notional amount 350
1
 – – – – 650
1
1,000 16 212 
Sterling interest rate  
to receive (%) 6.7 – – – – 5.6 6.0 
Interest margin over 
EURIBOR to pay (%) 1.3 – – – – 0.8 1.0 
Receive euro fixed,  
pay US dollar fixed:
Notional amount – – – – – 731
1
731 – 97 
Euro interest rate  
to receive (%) – – – – – 4.4 4.4 
US dollar interest rate  
to pay (%) – – – – – 4.3 4.3 
Receive sterling fixed,  
pay US dollar fixed:
Notional amount – – – – – 500
1
500 – 43 
Sterling interest rate  
to receive (%) – – – – – 5.4 5.4 
US dollar interest rate  
to pay (%) – – – – – 5.4 5.4 
Foreign exchange swaps
Receive euro, pay sterling:
Notional amount 1,415 – – – – – 1,415 – 22 
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount – – – – – 2,100 2,100 286 – 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) – – – – – 8.2 8.2 
Weighted average margin 
over LIBOR to pay (%) – – – – – 4.2 4.2 
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount 1,075 – 2,107 – 1,720 – 4,902 236 – 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) 4.8 – 5.3 – 7.0 – 5.8 
Weighted average margin 
over EURIBOR to pay (%) 2.7 – 1.3 – 4.0 – 2.5 
US dollar interest rate 
derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount – – – – – 1,289 1,289 62 2 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) – – – – – 4.7 4.7 
Weighted average margin 
over LIBOR to pay (%) – – – – – 2.2 2.2  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 108
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Derivative financial instruments are then transacted to change a portion of the debt into fixed interest rates, thereby creating the 
desired interest rate risk.
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2011  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in
Total
Fair value at  
30 September 2011
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Asset Liability
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 110 – 128 200 128 1,335
2,4
1,901 – 212 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 6.1 – 4.6 3.4 3.0 4.2 4.2 
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 1,289 48 1,225
3
643 484 1,843
5
5,532 – 281 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 3.9 3.9 3.8 2.7 2.8 3.9 3.7 
US dollar interest rate 
derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount 448 – – 448 – 696
6
1,592 – 154 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 3.8 – – 1.6 – 4.8 3.6 
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage net investment hedging risk.
Non-deliverable forward
Receive euro, pay Moroccan 
dirham (MAD): 
Notional amount 127 – – – – – 127 – 7 
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage the foreign exchange cash flow risk associated with converting euro dividends 
from subsidiaries into sterling.
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling fixed,  
pay euro fixed: 
Notional amount 983 1,012 584 1,026 – – 3,605 12 269 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 4.6 4.6 4.7 4.6 – – 4.7 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) 5.7 5.6 5.6 5.5 – – 5.6 
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage the short-term cash flow risk associated with converting other anticipated cash 
flows from subsidiaries into sterling.
Foreign exchange forwards
Receive euro, pay sterling: 
Notional amount 66 – – – – – 66 – – 
Total fair value of derivative financial instruments at 30 September 2011 612 1,299 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support annex documents under  
ISDA agreements 40 (238)
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments at 30 September 2011 652 1,061 
The above amounts are included in the balance sheet as follows:
Current 223 301 
Non-current 429 760 
652 1,061 
Net liability 409 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
109
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Since it is the intention of the Group to hold all derivative financial instruments until maturity they have been classified in the balance 
sheet as current or non-current according to their contractual cash settlements. Where a portion of a derivative financial instrument 
is to be cash settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date this portion has been classified as current with the remainder being 
classified as non-current. Any collateral transferred to counterparties in respect of derivative financial instruments with negative fair 
values has been classified as current or non-current in line with the classification of the underlying derivative financial instrument 
since the substance of the collateral transactions is to extinguish the liabilities to counterparties. Any excess collateral transferred  
to counterparties has been classified as current since it is reasonably expected to be returned within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
The overall effect of the interest rate swaps live at 30 September 2011 is to convert £6,711 million of borrowings into fixed rates in 
order to manage the Group’s exposure to cash flow interest rate risk.
Key:
1  Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2  The following trades are included within this balance:
 £15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every six months throughout the life of the trade. This trade 
is expected to be cancelled in April 2021.
 £50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every five years throughout the life of the trade. This trade is 
expected to be cancelled in April 2021.
3  The following trade is included within this balance:
 €1,200 million interest rate swaps maturing in 2013 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
These trades are not expected to be cancelled before their maturity date.
4  The following trades are included within this balance:
 £336 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
 £90 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2014.
5  The following trades are included within this balance:
 €500 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
 €600 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
 €575 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2017.
6  The following trades are included within this balance:
 $500 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
 $186 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
The following tables are provided in respect of borrowings and derivative financial instruments held by the Group at  
30 September 2010.
Debt is issued in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of execution.
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2010  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in
Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter 
Capital market issuance
£350m 6.875% notes due June 2012 – 350 – – – – 350 
€1,250m 5.0% notes due June 2012 – 1,082 – – – – 1,082 
€500m 5.125% notes due October 2013 – – – 433 – – 433 
€1,200m 4.375% notes due November 2013 – – – 1,038 – – 1,038 
€750m 7.25% notes due September 2014 – – – 649 – – 649 
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 – – – – 433 – 433 
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 – – – – – 1,298 1,298 
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 – – – – – 450 450 
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 – – – – – 200 200
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 – – – – – 500 500 
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 – – – – – 1,000 1,000 
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 – – – – – 600 600 
Interest accruals, discounts and fair  
value adjustments – 20 – 59 (24) 183 238 
Total capital market issuance – 1,452 – 2,179 409 4,231 8,271 
Bank loans and overdrafts, borrowed at  
LIBOR (or equivalent) plus a margin at the  
time of borrowing 328 1,731 – – – – 2,059 
Interest accruals 1 1 – – – – 2 
Total bank borrowings 329 1,732 – – – – 2,061 
Total borrowings 329 3,184 – 2,179 409 4,231 10,332 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 110
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Derivative financial instruments are then transacted to change the debt issued into the desired currency and into floating interest 
rates per the following table:
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2010  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in 
Total 
Fair value at  
30 September 2010
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Asset Liability 
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling fixed,  
pay euro variable:
Notional amount – 350
1
– – – 650
1
1,000 33 231 
Sterling interest rate  
to receive (%) – 6.7 – – – 5.6 6.0 
Interest margin over 
EURIBOR to pay (%) – 1.3 – – – 0.8 1.0 
Foreign exchange swaps
Receive euro, pay US dollar:
Notional amount 1,593 – – – – – 1,593 54 – 
Receive euro, pay sterling:
Notional amount 272 – – – – – 272 – 9 
Receive US dollar, pay sterling:
Notional amount 717 – – – – – 717 1 3 
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount – – – – – 2,100 2,100 196 – 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) – – – – – 8.2 8.2 
Weighted average margin 
over LIBOR to pay (%) – – – – – 4.2 4.2 
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay variable, receive fixed:
Notional amount – 1,082 – 2,125 – 1,732 4,939 296 – 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) – 4.8 – 5.3 – 7.0 5.8 
Weighted average margin 
over EURIBOR to pay (%) – 2.7 – 1.3 – 4.0 2.5 
Derivative financial instruments are then transacted to change a portion of the debt into fixed interest rates, thereby creating the 
desired interest rate risk.
Sterling interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount – 351 – 428 87 663
2,4
1,529 – 157
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) – 4.7 – 4.9 3.9 4.9 4.8 
Euro interest rate derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount – 2,251 1,088
3
 415 172 1,124
5
  5,050 – 333 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) – 4.0 3.9 3.8 3.3 4.4 4.0  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
111
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
GBP equivalent at 30 September 2010  
£ million 
Matures in financial year ending in 
Total 
Fair value at  
30 September 2010
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Asset Liability 
US dollar interest rate 
derivatives
Interest rate swaps –  
pay fixed, receive variable:
Notional amount – 891 – 381 – 692
6
 1,964 – 192
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) – 3.9 – 4.0 – 4.8 4.2 
Collars purchased:
Notional amount 127
7
 – – – – – 127 – 1
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage net investment hedging risk.
Non-deliverable forward
Receive euro, pay Moroccan 
dirham (MAD): 
Notional amount 128 – – – – – 128 – 3
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage the foreign exchange cash flow risk associated with converting euro dividends 
from subsidiaries into sterling.
Cross currency swaps
Receive sterling fixed,  
pay euro fixed: 
Notional amount 753 983 1,012 584 1,026 – 4,358 19 352 
Weighted average interest 
rate to pay (%) 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.7 4.6 – 4.7 
Weighted average interest 
rate to receive (%) 5.7 5.7 5.6 5.6 5.5 – 5.6 
Additional derivatives are then transacted to manage the short-term cash flow risk associated with converting other anticipated cash 
flows from subsidiaries into sterling.
Foreign exchange forwards
Receive euro, pay sterling: 
Notional amount 103 – – – – – 103 – 1 
Total fair value of derivative financial instruments at 30 September 2010 599 1,282 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support annex documents under  
ISDA agreements. (29) (272)
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments at 30 September 2010 570 1,010 
The above amounts are included in the balance sheet as follows:
Current 243 262 
Non-current 327 748 
570 1,010 
Net liability 440
The overall effect of the interest rate swaps live at 30 September 2010 is to convert £6,726 million of borrowings into fixed rates with 
£127 million of borrowings floating within a set range, in order to manage the Group’s exposure to cash flow interest rate risk. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 112
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
16 Borrowings and Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Key:
1  Principal amounts under these cross currency swaps are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
2  The following trades are included within this balance:
 £15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every six months throughout the life of the trade. This trade 
is expected to be cancelled in July 2018.
 £50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every five years throughout the life of the trade. This trade is 
expected to be cancelled in April 2016.
3  The following trade is included within this balance:
 €1,200 million interest rate swaps maturing in 2013 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months throughout the life of the trade. 
These trades are not expected to be cancelled before their maturity date.
4  The following trades are included within this balance:
 £336 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
 £90 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2014.
5  The following trades are included within this balance:
 €500 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
 €600 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in May 2012.
6  The following trades are included within this balance:
 $500 million forward start five-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
 $186 million forward start ten-year interest rate swaps starting in April 2012.
7  The following trade is included within this balance:
 $200 million interest rate collar maturing in 2011 where the interest rate is fixed within the range 3.78% to 6.00%.
(v) Reconciliation of movement in carrying value of derivative financial instruments
The movements in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows:
£ million
Fair value attributable to currency 
movements recognised in:
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
differences 
recognised  
in income 
statement Total 
Statement of 
comprehensive 
income
Income  
statement
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges (note 5) – 7 438 445 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges (note 5) – (7) (421) (428)
Net fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges – – 17 17 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments offsetting 
underlying borrowings (note 5) – (76) – (76)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments designated  
as net investment hedges 12 – – 12 
Fair value movement during year 12 (76) 17 (47)
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments at  
30 September 2010 (note 16 (iv)) (440)
Collateral transferred in respect of certain derivative  
financial instruments with negative values 34 
Cash payment on settlement of matured derivative  
financial instruments 44 
Fair value at 30 September 2011 (409) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
113
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
The movements in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments in 2010 were as follows:
£ million
Fair value attributable to currency 
movements recognised in:
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
differences 
recognised  
in income 
statement Total 
Statement of 
comprehensive 
income
Income  
statement
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges (note 5) – 75 494 569
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges (note 5) – (75) (284) (359)
Net fair value gains on derivative financial instruments providing 
commercial hedges – – 210 210
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments offsetting 
underlying borrowings (note 5) – (75) – (75)
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments designated  
as net investment hedges 192 – – 192
Fair value movement during year 192 (75) 210 327 
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments at  
30 September 2009 (note 16 (iv)) (985)
Collateral transferred in respect of certain derivative  
financial instruments with negative values (70)
Interest on collateral transferred in respect of certain  
derivative financial instruments with negative values (11)
Cash payment on settlement of matured derivative  
financial instruments 299
Fair value at 30 September 2010 (440)
(vi) Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 30 September 2011 external loans with a fair value of €5,224 million and US$100 million (2010: €5,465 million and US$1,000 
million), cross currency swaps of €4,555 million (2010: €5,502 million), foreign exchange swaps of US$nil (2010: US$1,750 million) 
and non-deliverable forwards of MAD1,675 million (2010: MAD1,675 million) have been designated as hedges of the net investment  
in the Group’s foreign operations. Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings and derivatives are recognised as  
other comprehensive income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the Group’s foreign operations. 
Permanent intragroup loans with a fair value of €6,365 million (2010: €6,365 million) have been treated as a reduction in investments 
in the Group’s foreign operations. 
(vii) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all financial liabilities that are carried in the financial 
statements at amounts other than fair values.
All financial assets and liabilities are carried at amortised cost, other than derivative financial instruments that are carried at fair value. 
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are approximate to their fair value and so 
are excluded from the analysis below. Derivative financial instruments are excluded as they are carried at fair value.
£ million
2011 2010
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
Current borrowings
Sterling 382 395  278  278 
Euro 1,616 1,642  29  29 
US dollars 106 106  21  21 
Other – –  1  1 
Total current borrowings 2,104 2,143  329  329 
Non-current borrowings
Sterling 3,367 4,056  3,225  3,963 
Euro 4,709 5,148  5,746  6,378 
US dollars – –  1,032  1,032 
Other – –  –  – 
Total non-current borrowings 8,076 9,204  10,003  11,373
Within the table above it is only the capital market issues that have a fair value different to the carrying value and this has been 
calculated by comparing the current trading levels to par. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 114
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
17 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following amounts, determined after 
appropriate offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
£ million 2011 2010 
Deferred tax assets 102 150 
Deferred tax liabilities (2,056) (2,074)
(1,954) (1,924)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months
£ million 2011 2010 
Deferred tax assets 56 48 
Deferred tax liabilities (125) (136)
(69) (88)
Deferred tax assets
2011
£ million
Fixed and 
intangible  
assets
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other  
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2010 (67) 94 – 123 150 
Credited/(charged) to income statement 47 2 – (38) 11 
Transfers (47) 4 – (16) (59)
Exchange movements 2 – – (2) – 
At 30 September 2011 (65) 100 – 67 102 
2010 
£ million
Fixed and 
intangible  
assets
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other  
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2009 (57) 79 – 126 148 
Credited/(charged) to income statement (1) 5 – (35) (31)
Credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income – 10 – (9) 1 
Credited to equity – – – 4 4 
Transfers (13) – – 46 33 
Exchange movements 4 – – (9) (5)
At 30 September 2010 (67) 94 – 123 150
Deferred tax liabilities
2011 
£ million
Fixed and  
intangible  
assets
Retirement  
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other  
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2010 (2,442) 48 5 315 (2,074)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 19 7 (1) (52) (27)
Charged to other comprehensive income – (21) – – (21)
Transfers 48 25 – (14) 59 
Exchange movements 10 (1) – (2) 7 
At 30 September 2011 (2,365) 58 4 247 (2,056)
2010 
£ million
Fixed and 
intangible  
assets
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other  
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2009 (2,656) 46 6 506 (2,098)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 77 (7) (1) (137) (68)
Credited to other comprehensive income – 9 – – 9 
Credited/(charged) to equity 2 – – (5) (3)
Transfers (1) – – (32) (33)
Exchange movements 136 – – (17) 119 
At 30 September 2010 (2,442) 48 5 315 (2,074) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
115
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £88 million (2010: £81 million) are recognised for tax losses carried 
forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets  
of £18 million (2010: £14 million) have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax 
losses in certain jurisdictions. Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets £12 million (2010: £11 million) will expire within five years.
Also within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £113 million (2010: £90 million) are recognised for tax credits carried 
forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been recognised is £8 billion (2010: £7 billion). A provision of £8 million (2010: £8 million) has been made for 
taxation expected to arise on a planned future dividend payment of £117 million from one subsidiary. No liability has been 
recognised in respect of other differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences, and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The rate of UK corporation tax was reduced by 2 per cent from 28 per cent to 26 per cent from 1 April 2011 and a further  
reduction to 25 per cent from 1 April 2012 was enacted at the balance sheet date. Further reductions of 1 per cent per annum are 
expected to be enacted each year resulting in a reduction to 23 per cent by 1 April 2014. The overall effect of a further reduction to 
23 per cent, if applied to the deferred tax balance at 30 September 2011, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by £4 million.
18 Retirement Benefit Schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined 
contribution schemes. The Group’s two principal schemes are final salary defined benefit schemes and are operated by Imperial 
Tobacco Limited in the UK and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany. The UK scheme’s assets are held in trustee 
administered funds while the German scheme is unfunded. The UK defined benefit scheme was closed to new members with  
effect from 1 October 2010 and new employees are now offered a defined contribution scheme instead.
The results of the most recent actuarial valuation for the principal UK scheme have been updated to 30 September 2011 by  
Towers Watson Limited, actuaries and consultants, in order to determine the amounts to be included in the balance sheet and 
income statement. Actuarial valuations of the pension liabilities of other schemes of the Group were made as at or updated to  
30 September 2011 by the various actuaries to those schemes.
Amounts recognised in the income statement
£ million 2011 2010 
Current service cost 51 43 
Past service cost (5) (5)
Losses from special termination benefits 3 8 
Curtailment gains – (1)
Defined benefit costs in operating profit 49 45 
Interest on retirement benefit liabilities 180 186 
Expected return on retirement benefit assets (178) (181)
Retirement benefits net financing costs in net finance costs (note 5) 2 5 
Total defined benefit scheme cost 51 50 
Defined contribution costs in operating profit 18 18 
Total retirement benefit scheme costs in the income statement 69 68
Retirement benefit scheme costs charged to operating profit
£ million 2011 2010 
Defined benefit costs in operating profit 49 45 
Defined contribution costs in operating profit 18 18 
Total retirement benefit scheme costs in operating profit 67 63 
Which is split as follows in the income statement:
£ million 2011 2010 
Cost of sales 32 29 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 24 17 
Administrative and other expenses 11 17 
Total retirement benefit scheme costs in operating profit 67 63  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 116
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
18 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued
Defined benefit schemes – amounts recognised in the balance sheet
£ million 2011 2010 
Present value of funded obligations (2,943) (3,022)
Fair value of scheme assets 2,876 2,960 
(67) (62)
Present value of unfunded obligations (687) (780)
(754) (842)
Recognised in the balance sheet as:
£ million 2011 2010 
Retirement benefit assets 5 25 
Retirement benefit liabilities (759) (867)
(754) (842)
Defined benefit scheme obligations – changes in present value
£ million 2011 2010 
At 1 October 3,802 3,592 
Current service cost 51 43 
Past service cost (5) (5)
Special termination benefits 3 8 
Curtailment gains – (1)
Interest cost 180 186 
Actuarial (gains)/losses (199) 257 
Contributions by employees 3 2 
Benefits paid (202) (227)
Exchange movements (3) (53)
At 30 September 3,630 3,802
Defined benefit scheme assets – changes in fair value
£ million 2011 2010 
At 1 October 2,960 2,798 
Expected return on scheme assets 178 181 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (158) 146 
Contributions by employees 3 2 
Contributions by employer 94 70 
Benefits paid (202) (227)
Exchange movements 1 (10)
At 30 September 2,876 2,960 
The actual return on defined benefit scheme assets was a gain of £20 million (2010: £327 million).
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
£ million 2011 2010 
Net actuarial (gains)/losses (41) 111 
Cumulative net actuarial losses since 1 October 2004 405 446 
Defined benefit scheme – principal actuarial assumptions used in scheme valuations
2011
UK Germany Other 
Discount rate 5.40% 5.41% 5.28% 
Expected return on scheme assets 6.24% n/a 5.50% 
Future salary increases 4.70% 3.10% 3.71% 
Future pension increases 3.20% 2.00% 1.91% 
Inflation 3.20% 2.00% 2.22%  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
117
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
2010
 UK Germany Other 
Discount rate 5.10% 4.40% 4.45% 
Expected return on scheme assets 6.45% n/a 5.26% 
Future salary increases 4.60% 3.10% 3.64% 
Future pension increases 3.10% 2.00% 2.23% 
Inflation 3.10% 2.00% 2.26% 
Other represents the weighted averages of the rates used for schemes outside the UK and Germany.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each 
territory, and are provided in the table below for the defined benefit schemes in the UK and Germany, which in aggregate represent 
84 per cent (2010: 83 per cent) of the Group’s total defined benefit scheme obligations at the year end. The average life expectancy, 
in years, of a pensioner retiring at age 65 is as follows:
2011 
UK Germany
Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 20.9 22.8 18.4 22.5 
Member currently aged 50 22.0 24.0 20.5 24.5 
2010 
UK Germany 
Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 20.8 22.7 18.3 22.4 
Member currently aged 50 21.9 23.9 20.3 24.3 
Categories of scheme assets and their expected rates of return
2011 
£ million unless otherwise indicated
UK Other
Expected return 
per annum Fair value
Percentage of  
UK assets
Expected return 
per annum Fair value
Percentage of 
other assets
Equities 7.6% 1,153 46.0% 7.4% 126 34.0% 
Bonds 4.4% 877 35.0% 4.4% 203 54.9% 
Property 7.1% 276 11.0% 5.5% 11 3.0% 
Other 5.7% 200 8.0% 4.4% 30 8.1% 
2,506 100.0% 370 100.0%
2010 
£ million unless otherwise indicated
UK Other
Expected return 
per annum Fair value
Percentage of UK 
assets
Expected return 
per annum Fair value
Percentage of 
other assets
Equities 7.8% 1,426 55.0% 7.1% 133 36.1% 
Bonds 4.1% 907 35.0% 4.1% 191 51.8% 
Property 7.1% 259 10.0% 6.1% 15 4.2% 
Other – – – 4.3% 29 7.9% 
2,592 100.0% 368 100.0%
The derivation of the overall expected return on assets reflects the actual asset allocation at the measurement date combined with 
an expected return for each asset class. The bond return is based on current market yields. The corporate bond yield has been 
reduced to allow for an element of default risk. The return on equities and property is based on a number of factors including the 
income yield at the measurement date, the long-term growth prospects for the economy in general, the long-term relationship 
between each asset class and bond returns, and the movement in market indices since the previous measurement date.
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund investments in financial 
instruments of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC amounted to £3 million (2010: nil).  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 118
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
18 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued
History of the plans
£ million 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
At 30 September
Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,630 3,802 3,592 2,874 3,033 
Fair value of total plan assets 2,876 2,960 2,798 2,769 3,238 
Net total (deficit)/surplus on plans (754) (842) (794) (105) 205 
Experience (loss)/gain on total plan liabilities (24) 63 8 (18) (19)
Experience (loss)/gain on total plan assets (158) 146 (58) (633) 121 
UK scheme triennial valuation and contribution levels
Following completion this year of the triennial valuation of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (ITPF – the main UK Group scheme) 
as at 31 March 2010 the level of employer’s contributions to this scheme has been increased from nil to £31 million per year as set 
by the ITPF actuary. This level of contribution will be reviewed again at the next triennial valuation in 2013 at which time future 
payments may be increased or decreased.
In relation to the triennial valuation, the assumptions which had the most significant effect when valuing the ITPF’s liabilities were 
those relating to the rate of investment return on the ITPF’s existing assets, the rates of increase in pay and pensions and estimated 
mortality rates. On the basis that the ITPF is continuing, it was assumed that the future investment returns relative to market values 
at the valuation date would be 5.5 per cent per annum and that pay and pension increases would average 5.0 per cent and  
3.5 per cent respectively. The assets were brought into account at their market value.
At 31 March 2010 the market value of the invested assets of the ITPF was £2,622 million. The total assets were sufficient to  
cover 100 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. 
The total assets were sufficient to cover 88 per cent of the total benefits that had accrued to members for past service and future 
service benefits for current members. 
19 Provisions
£ million Restructuring Other Total 
At 1 October 2010 450 384 834 
Additional provisions charged to the income statement 30 35 65 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plan liabilities 8 – 8 
Amounts used (106) (35) (141)
Unused amounts reversed (30) (24) (54)
Exchange movements (1) (3) (4)
At 30 September 2011 351 357 708 
Analysed as:
£ million 2011 2010 
Current 163 187 
Non-current 545 647 
708 834 
Restructuring provisions relate primarily to European Integration projects announced in June 2008 as part of the integration of 
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis. They affect sales and marketing, manufacturing and central support functions in a number of markets 
and have largely been implemented. The remaining provisions are expected to be used over a number of years. 
Other provisions principally relate to commercial legal claims and disputes. The majority of other provisions represent the fair value at 
acquisition of current and potential Altadis commercial disputes, litigation and duty claims arising in the normal course of business. 
These liabilities are expected to crystallise within the next five years.
20 Share Capital
£ million 2011 2010 
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 56,040,000,000) 5,604 5,604 
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 1,067,942,881) 107 107  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
119
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
21 Share Schemes
The Group operates three types of share-based incentive programmes, designed to incentivise staff and to encourage them to build 
a stake in the Group.
Share Matching Scheme
Awards are made to eligible employees who are invited to invest a proportion of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
shares for a period of three years, after which additional shares are awarded on a 1:1 ratio.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Awards of shares under the LTIP are made to the Executive Directors and senior executives at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. They vest three years after grant and are subject to performance criteria based on adjusted EPS growth and total 
shareholder returns compared to the FTSE 100 and a comparator group.
Sharesave Plan
Options are granted to eligible employees who participate in a designated savings scheme for a three or five year period.
Further details of the schemes including additional criteria applying to directors and some senior executives are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74.
Analysis of charge to the consolidated income statement
£ million 2011 2010 
Share Matching Scheme 17 17 
Long Term Incentive Plan 6 8 
Sharesave Plan 3 3 
26 28 
The awards are predominantly equity settled. The balance sheet liability in respect of cash settled schemes at 30 September 2011 
was £1.6 million (2010: £0.9 million).
Reconciliation of movements in awards/options
2011
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Share  
matching  
awards
LTIP  
awards
Sharesave  
options
Sharesave 
weighted  
average  
exercise price
Outstanding at 1 October 2010 2,770 1,034 2,217 £14.19 
Granted 1,214 491 428 £17.80 
Lapsed/cancelled (192) (253) (132) £15.26 
Exercised (811) (183) (356) £15.41 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011 2,981 1,089 2,157 £14.64 
Exercisable at 30 September 2011 – – 74 £16.97
2010
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Share  
matching  
awards
LTIP  
awards
Sharesave  
options
Sharesave 
weighted  
average  
exercise price
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 2,625 1,268 2,344 £13.69 
Granted 1,095 494 571 £15.63 
Lapsed/cancelled (161) (237) (179) £14.50 
Exercised (789) (491) (519) £13.31 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 2,770 1,034 2,217 £14.19 
Exercisable at 30 September 2010 – – 91 £14.39 
The weighted average Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share price at the date of exercise of awards and options was £19.77  
(2010: £19.36). The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted during the year was £4.77 (2010: £4.18). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 120
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
21 Share Schemes continued
Summary of awards/options outstanding at 30 September 2011
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Number of 
awards/options 
outstanding
Vesting period 
remaining  
in months
Exercise price  
of options 
outstanding
Share Matching Scheme
2009 832 5 n/a 
2010 957 17 n/a 
2011 1,192 29 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 2,981 
Long Term Incentive Plan
2008 340 2 n/a 
2009 294 13 n/a 
2010 455 21 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 1,089 
Sharesave Plan
2006 7 – £12.12 
2007 81 10 £14.96 
2008 87 22 £17.50 
2009 1,020 14 £12.55 
2010 536 24 £15.63 
2011 426 37 £17.80 
Total options outstanding 2,157 
The vesting period is the period between the grant of awards or options and the earliest date on which they are exercisable.  
The vesting period remaining and the exercise price of options outstanding are weighted averages. Participants in the Sharesave 
Plan have six months from the maturity date to exercise their option. Participants in the LTIP have seven years from the end of the 
vesting period to exercise their option. The exercise price of the options is fixed over the life of each option, except that following  
the rights issue in 2008, adjustments were made to the share plans outstanding at that time. In respect of the Share Matching 
Scheme, the Trustees sold sufficient rights ‘nil paid’ to enable the balance of the rights to be taken up. In the case of the  
Sharesave Plan and LTIP , the number of shares under option or subject to awards were adjusted by the relevant bonus factor.  
In the case of the Sharesave Plan the option price was also adjusted by the relevant bonus factor.
Pricing 
For the purposes of valuing options to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has  
been used for the Share Matching Scheme and Sharesave Plan. A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model 
for 2010 and 2011 is as follows.
2011 2010
Share matching Sharesave Share matching Sharesave 
Risk-free interest rate 2.0% 1.1% – 2.4% 2.0% 1.4% – 2.3% 
Volatility (based on 3 or 5 year history) 34.1% 31.5% – 33.4% 36.0% 31.0% – 36.0% 
Expected lives of options granted 3 years 3-5 years 3 years 3-5 years 
Dividend yield 4.4% 4.4% 4.4% 4.4% 
Fair value £17.34 £4.15 – £5.39 £18.03 £3.87 – £4.42 
Share price used to determine exercise price £19.79 £22.24 £20.57 £19.53 
Exercise price n/a £17.80 n/a £15.63 
Market conditions were incorporated into the Monte Carlo method used in determining the fair value of LTIP awards at grant date. 
Assumptions in 2011 and 2010 are given in the following table.
2011 2010 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 28% 30% 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 4.4% 4.4% 
Share price volatility of the tobacco and alcohol comparator group 21% – 50% 20% – 49% 
Share price volatility of the FTSE 100 comparator group 21% – 116% 20% – 114% 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 35% 35% 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the FTSE 100 comparator group 40% 40%  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
121
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee 
Benefit Trust (the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the 
exercise and vesting of options and awards. The purchase of shares by the Trusts has been financed by a gift of £19.2 million and 
an interest free loan of £181.9 million. In addition the Group has gifted treasury shares to the Trusts. None of the Trusts’ shares  
has been allocated to employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2011. All finance costs and administration expenses 
connected with the Trusts are charged to the income statement as they accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends  
and the shares held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share.
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Millions of shares 2011 2010 
At 1 October 3.8 3.5 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1.2) (1.6)
Gift of treasury shares 1.2 1.9 
Purchase of shares 1.0 – 
At 30 September 4.8 3.8 
The shares in the Trusts are accounted for on a first in first out basis and comprise 1.5 million (2010: 1.6 million) shares acquired in 
the open market at a cost of £28.2 million (2010: £33.1 million) and 3.3 million (2010: 2.1 million) treasury shares gifted to the Trusts 
by the Group, of which 1.2 million were gifted in the financial year 2011 (2010: 1.9 million).
22 Treasury Shares 
Shares purchased under the Group’s buy back programme are not cancelled but are retained in issue and represent a deduction 
from equity attributable to owners of the parent (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). During the year the Group 
purchased 8,673,000 shares (2010: nil) at a cost of £182 million (2010: nil).
Thousands of shares 2011 2010 
At 1 October 49,569 51,481 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1,235) (1,912)
Purchase of treasury shares 8,673 – 
At 30 September 57,007 49,569 
Percentage of issued share capital 5.3% 4.6% 
23 Commitments
Capital commitments
£ million 2011 2010 
Contracted but not provided for:
Property, plant and equipment 147 114 
Operating lease commitments
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due:
£ million 2011 2010 
Property
Within one year 30 21 
Between one and five years 73 66 
Beyond five years 11 7 
114 94  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the Financial Statements continued 122
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
24 Legal Proceedings
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and 
health-related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which  
are being vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe  
that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash flow or financial  
condition of the Group. Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amounts in respect of these cases in the consolidated 
financial statements.
In 2003 the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) commenced an investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the operation of the  
UK tobacco supply industry in the period from 2000 to 2003. In a decision dated 15 April 2010, the OFT concluded that certain  
of the Group’s promotional arrangements with tobacco retailers had the object of restricting competition and imposed a fine of 
£112.3 million on the Group. At the same time it confirmed that two other allegations included in its 2008 statement of objections 
had been dropped.
The Group takes compliance with competition law very seriously and continues to reject any suggestion that it acted in breach of 
the Competition Act or in any way contrary to the interests of consumers. On 15 June 2010 the Group submitted an appeal to  
the Competition Appeal Tribunal against the OFT’s findings of infringement and the level of the fine. Five tobacco retailers also 
submitted appeals against the OFT’s decision. The appeal is currently being heard by the Competition Appeal Tribunal which may 
uphold, quash or vary the OFT’s decision or the fine that has been imposed. As part of its appeal the Group has asked for the fine  
to be quashed in its entirety. Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amount in the consolidated financial statements.
25 Cash Flows from Operating Activities
£ million 2011 2010 
Profit for the year 1,816 1,522 
Adjustments for:
Taxation 337 596 
Investment income (785) (844)
Finance costs 1,272 1,254 
Share of post-tax loss of associates 1 – 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 598 666 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) (3)
Loss on disposal of software 2 – 
Post-employment benefits (45) (25)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes 26 28 
Acquisition accounting adjustments – 14 
Movement in provisions (130) (198)
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 3,091 3,010 
Increase in inventories (39) (213)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 80 (118)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (47) 545 
Movement in working capital (6) 214 
Taxation paid (529) (365)
Net cash flows from operating activities 2,556 2,859 
26 Analysis of Net Debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivative financial instruments and finance lease liabilities in the year 
were as follows:
£ million
Cash and cash 
equivalents
Current 
borrowings
Non-current 
borrowings
Derivative  
financial 
instruments
Finance  
lease  
liabilities Total 
At 1 October 2010 773 (329) (10,003) (440) (25) (10,024)
Cash flow 416 627 (575) 78 2 548 
Reallocate non-current to current – (2,434) 2,434 – – – 
Accretion of interest – – (5) – – (5)
Change in fair values – – – (47) – (47)
Exchange movements (18) 32 73 – – 87 
At 30 September 2011 1,171 (2,104) (8,076) (409) (23) (9,441) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
123
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of 
derivative financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities.
£ million 2011 2010 
Reported net debt (9,441) (10,024)
Accrued interest 297 292 
Fair value of derivatives providing commercial hedges 290 410 
Finance lease liabilities 23 25 
Adjusted net debt (8,831) (9,297)
27 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
£ million 2011 2010 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 416 (208)
Settlement of exchange rate derivative financial instruments 44 299 
Increase/(decrease) in collateralisation deposits 34 (70)
Increase in borrowings (1,785) (1,542)
Repayment of borrowings 1,837 2,790 
Repayment of finance leases 2 2 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 548 1,271 
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative financial instruments (52) 326 
Exchange movements 87 423 
Movement in net debt during the year 583 2,020 
Opening net debt (10,024) (12,044)
Closing net debt (9,441) (10,024)
28 Acquisitions 
2011 
There were no significant acquisitions during the year ending 30 September 2011.
2010 
During 2010, agreement was reached with the sellers of Reemtsma regarding the reimbursement and settlement of costs incurred 
by the Group as a consequence of investigations into alleged foreign trading violations prior to our acquisition of Reemtsma in 2002. 
Reimbursement of £27 million received in cash and £14 million of costs settled directly by the sellers on behalf of the Group have 
been treated as an adjustment to the cost of the Reemtsma acquisition and so are reflected as a reduction to goodwill of £41 million 
in note 9. To the extent that costs were settled directly by the sellers they have been shown as a non-cash movement of £14 million 
to arrive at operating cash flow before movement in working capital in note 25. Costs of £24 million incurred in 2010 have been 
recognised in the 2010 consolidated income statement in administrative and other expenses, and have been excluded from our 
adjusted performance measures since the costs did not relate to the trading performance of the Group. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
124
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 
2011 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in  
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors  
and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility  
is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it  
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent  
in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the  
Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free  
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 30 September 2011;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
 – the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the parent company financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the parent company  
financial statements. 
Matters on Which We Are Required to 
Report by Exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial  
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year  
ended 30 September 2011.
David Charles (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Bristol 
1 November 2011
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
125
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
£ million Notes
30 September 
2011
30 September 
2010
Fixed assets
Investments (ii) 3,035 3,035 
Current assets
Debtors (iii) 5,659 3,976 
Cash at bank and in hand 98 48
Net current assets 5,757 4,024 
Total assets 8,792 7,059 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (iv) 107 107 
Share premium account (v) 5,833 5,833 
Profit and loss account (v) 2,852 1,119 
Total shareholders’ funds 8,792 7,059 
The financial statements on pages 125 to 128 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 November 2011 and signed on its  
behalf by:
  
Iain Napier    Robert Dyrbus
Chairman    Director
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
at 30 September 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
126
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention,  
the Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account has been presented for the  
Company. As permitted by FRS 29, the Company has elected not to present FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in the  
notes to its individual financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented in the consolidated financial statements.  
As permitted by FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries. 
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Investments
Investments comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Dividends
Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, dividends 
receivable are recognised as an asset when they are approved, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the 
dividends are paid.
Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as cash and debtors. Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be  
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the profit and loss 
account. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Treasury Shares
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. 
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental 
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity.
(i) Dividends
Dividend per share in respect of financial year
Pence 2011 2010 2009 
Interim 28.1 24.3 21.0 
Final 67.0 60.0 52.0 
Total 95.1 84.3 73.0 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and final dividends in respect of a year are paid and 
recognised in the following financial period.
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year
£ million 2011 2010 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous financial year 608 527 
Interim dividend 284 246 
892 773 
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 67.0p per share amounts to a proposed final dividend 
payment of £674 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2011, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2011 will be £958 million (2010: £854 million).
Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
127
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
(ii) Investments
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited
£ million 2011 2010 
At 1 October 3,035 1,035 
Additions – 2,000 
At 30 September 3,035 3,035 
A list of the principal subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 129 to 130.
(iii) Debtors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
£ million 2011 2010 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,659 3,976 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date for repayment and are repayable on demand.
(iv) Called Up Share Capital
£ million 2011 2010 
Authorised
56,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 56,040,000,000) 5,604 5,604 
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 1,067,942,881) 107 107 
(v) Reserves
£ million
Share premium 
account
Profit and loss 
account
At 1 October 2010 5,833 1,119 
Profit for the year – 2,807 
Dividends – (892)
Purchase of own shares – (182)
At 30 September 2011 5,833 2,852 
Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented. The profit 
attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the financial statements of the Company, is £2,807 million (2010: £990 million). This is after 
charging an audit fee of £0.4 million (2010: £0.9 million).
Treasury shares
Shares purchased under the Group’s buy back programme are not cancelled but are retained in issue and represent a deduction 
from shareholders’ funds. During the year the Group purchased 8,673,000 shares (2010: nil) at a cost of £182 million (2010: nil).
Thousands of shares 2011 2010 
At 1 October 49,569 51,481 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1,235) (1,912)
Purchase of treasury shares 8,673 – 
At 30 September 57,007 49,569 
Percentage of issued share capital 5.3% 4.6%  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
128
Overview Performance Financials Strategy Risk Governance
(vi) Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
£ million 2011 2010 
Profit for the year 2,807 990 
Dividends (892) (773)
Purchase of own shares (182) – 
Movements in total shareholders’ funds 1,733 217 
Opening total shareholders’ funds 7,059 6,842 
Closing total shareholders’ funds 8,792 7,059 
(vii) Guarantees
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary  
undertakings, including various Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2011, the contingent liability totalled £9,308 million 
(2010: £9,790 million).
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not 
file separate financial statements with the Chamber of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued 
declarations to assume any and all liabilities for any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at  
30 September 2011. The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, have therefore 
availed themselves of the exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect of documents 
required to be attached to the annual returns for such companies.
The Directors have assessed the fair value of the above guarantees and do not consider them to be material. They have therefore 
not been recognised on the balance sheet.
(viii) Related Party Disclosures
Key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group and the Company are the same. The relevant disclosures are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74. 
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74.  
These disclosures form part of the financial statements.
Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC continued Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
129
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group, which are unlisted unless otherwise indicated, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned
Name Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in  
the UK
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Altadis SA Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco 
products in Spain
Altadis Distribution France SAS France Distribution of tobacco products in France
Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU Spain Finance company
Altadis Finance BV Netherlands Finance company
Altadis Middle East Fzco United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East
Altadis USA Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United 
States of America
Commonwealth Brands Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the 
United States of America
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista SAU
Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain
Ets L Lacroix Fils NV Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Belgium
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco CR sro Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the  
Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland
Imperial Tobacco Hellas SA Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl Italy Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg 
Dohänyforgalmazö Kft
Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Maroc SA Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco 
products in Morocco
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in  
New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Norway AS Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco Polska SA Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck 
Sanayi ve Ticaret AS
Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia AS Slovak Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the  
Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing 
Company Limited
Taiwan Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis ve 
Pazarlama AS
Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine
OOO Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
John Player SA Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands
John Player & Sons Limited Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic  
of Ireland
Logista Italia SpA Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy
Principal Undertakings Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 130
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Principal Undertakings continued
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned continued
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Germany
Reemtsma International Asia  
Services Limited
China Marketing of tobacco products in China
Skruf Snus AB Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Sweden
Société Nationale d’Exploitation 
Industrielle des Tabacs et Allumettes SA
France Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in 
France and export of tobacco products
Supergroup SAS France Wholesale distribution in France
Tobaccor SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in  
the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Africa
Tobacna Ljubljana doo Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland BV Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in  
the Netherlands
800 JR Cigar Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in  
the sale of cigars in the United States of America
Incorporated overseas, partly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Imperial Tobacco Polska  
Manufacturing SA
Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 99.97
ZAO Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl CJSC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 99.9
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
Imperial Tobacco TKS ad Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in Macedonia
99.1
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in Kyrgyzstan
98.6
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in the Ivory Coast
74.1
Incorporated overseas, joint ventures
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Altabana SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 
involved in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars
50.0
Corporación Habanos SA Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0
Partnerships
The Group also owns the following partnership:
Name Country Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA) GmbH & Co KG Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany
Principal place of business: 
Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, 
D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
The subsidiaries listed above were held throughout the year. 
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception  
of Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held 
by the Company. A full list of undertakings is attached to the Annual Return of the Company. 
The percentage of issued share capital held by the immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same 
except for Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by  
a number of Group companies.
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA is listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast. Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials
131
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Registered Office
PO Box 244 
Upton Road 
Bristol BS99 7UJ 
+44 (0)117 963 6636 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
0871 384 2037* 
+44 (0)121 415 7009 
0871 384 2255* text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties
*  calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary.  
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
ADR Depositary
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders 
Citibank Shareholder Services 
PO Box 43077 
Providence, RI 02940-3077 
USA 
Toll-free number in the USA:1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) 
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 
20 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4AD 
+44 (0)20 7425 8000
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
One Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4QJ 
+44 (0)20 7888 8888
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
31 Great George Street 
Bristol BS1 5QD
Lawyers
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD
Ashurst LLP 
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA
Shareholder Information Overview Strategy Risk Governance Financials 132
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Performance
Shareholder Information continued
Financial Calendar and Dividends
Half yearly results are expected to be announced in May 2012 and the full year’s results in November 2012.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Wednesday 1 February 2012 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with  
this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2011 final dividend, if approved, will be on 17 February 2012 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 January 2012. The associated ex dividend date is 18 January 2012.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form 
obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown.
Share Dealing Service
A low cost, execution-only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares is 
available from NatWest Stockbrokers. NatWest Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority  
and is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS. For details, please contact NatWest Stockbrokers, Premier Place,  
2
1
/2 Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4BA, telephone: 0808 208 4433.
Individual Savings Account (ISA)
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
Investment Account where they can hold their Imperial Tobacco Group ordinary shares electronically. The ISA and Investment 
Account are operated by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Commission starts from £5.00 and £1.75 respectively for the sale  
and purchase of ordinary shares.
For a brochure or to apply for an Investment Account or ISA go online to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti on 
0845 300 0430*. 
* calls to this number will be charged at local rate from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend  
to buy further Imperial Tobacco Group Plc ordinary shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti,  
telephone: 0871 384 2268* (+44 (0)121 415 7173) or online at www.shareview.co.uk.
* calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary. 
American Depositary Receipt Facility
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the OTCQX International Premier platform in the form of American 
Depositary Shares (ADSs) using the symbol ‘ITYBY’. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. 
The ADS facility is administered by Citibank, N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
Website
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Equiniti also offers a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share 
prices and dividend details and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. www.imperial-tobacco.com
A
Accounting Policies  82, 126
Acquisitions  123
Adjusted Earnings Per Share 11
Adjusted Measures 85
Africa  26
American Depositary Receipts/Shares  132
Americas 25
Analysis of Net Debt 122
Annual General Meeting  55, 132
Asia-Pacific 26
Audit Committee  52
Auditors
Remuneration  55, 90
Report  76, 124
Australia  25
Austria 23
B
Balance Sheet (Consolidated)  79
Balance Sheet (Parent)  125
Belgium  21
Board Committees  46
Board of Directors 44
Borrowings and Derivative 
Financial Instruments 99
Brand Equity 14
Business Model 3
Business Overview 2 
C
Cash and Cash Equivalents  99
Cash Conversion Rate 13
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  122
Cash Flow Statement  81
Cash Utilisation 12
Chairman’s Introduction 6
Chairman’s Introduction to Governance 43
Charitable and Political Donations 56
Chief Executive’s Review  8
Commitments  121
Consumer Centric 15
Contents  1
Corporate Governance Report  46
Corporate Responsibility Review 33
Anti-illicit Trade 35
Assurance 35
Carbon Disclosure Project 39
Code of Conduct 38
Climate Change 38
Diversity and Equality 37
Enabling our People 37
Environmental Performance 39
Ingredients Reporting 36
Marketing Standards 36
Partnership Investment 40
Product Quality 36
Responsibility Strategy 34
Social Assessment and 
Human Rights 38
Supply Chain 40
Tobacco and Health 36
Tobacco Regulation 35
Workplace Health and Safety 37
Youth Smoking Prevention 36
Cost Optimisation 12
Creditor Payment Policy  56
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 87
Customer Engagement 14
Czech Republic 21
D
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 114
Development Executive  50
Directors 
Biographies 45
Interests in Shares  64
Pensions 72
Remuneration  60
Responsibilities  59
Directors and Employees  91
Disclosure Committee 54
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)  132
Dividends  32, 56, 93
E
Earnings Per Share  11, 30, 93
Employees  56, 91
EU 20
Excise Duty 17
Execution Excellence 15
F
Financial Calendar  132
Financial Highlights  5
Financial Review 30
Financial Statements  75
France  21
Future Foundations 15
G
Germany  21
Governance 42
Greece  21
Group Performance 30
H
Habanos 26
Hungary 21
I
Illicit Trade 17
Income Statement 77
Innovation 14
Introduction 1
Intangible Assets 94
Inventories  98
Italy 21
J
Joint Ventures 97
K
Key Assets 14
Key Enablers 15
Key Performance Indicators  11
L
Laos  26
Legal Proceedings  87, 122
Litigation  19, 58
Logistics 28
M
Market Footprint 14
Middle East 26
Morocco 25
N
Net Finance Costs 32, 91
Netherlands  21
New Zealand 26
Nominations Committee  51
Non-EU 24
Non-Financial Performance Indicators 41
Notes to the Financial Statements 88
Notes to the Financial Statements 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 126
O
Office of Fair Trading 58, 122
Operating Executive 50
Operating Review 20
P
Pensions 72
People 14
Poland  21
Portfolio Management 14
Portugal 23
Pricing 14
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 16
Principal Undertakings 129
Profit Before Taxation 90
Property, Plant and Equipment 96
Provisions  118
R
Reconciliation of Cash Flow to 
Movement in Net Debt 123
Registrars  131
Regulation 18
Remuneration Committee  60
Remuneration Report  60
Rest of EU 23 
Rest of the World  26 
Restructuring Costs 90
Retirement Benefit Schemes 84, 115
Revenue Performance 30
Russia  25
S
Sales Growth 12
Sales Growth Drivers 14
Saudi Arabia 25
Segment Information  88
Share Capital  56, 118
Shares 121
Share Schemes 119
Shareholder Information  131
Spain  21 
Statement of Changes in Equity  80
Statement of Comprehensive Income 78
Stick Equivalent Volumes 13
Strategy  4, 11
T
Taiwan  25
Taxation  92
Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin 13
Tobacco Net Revenue 13
Total Shareholder Return  7, 11
Total Tobacco 2, 14
Trade and Other Payables 99
Trade and Other Receivables 98
Treasury Shares 121
Turkey  25
U
Ukraine  25
United Kingdom  21 
United States of America 25
W
World Tobacco Market Overview 10
Index
Strategy
We explain our sales growth 
strategy in more detail and our 
areas of focus that will drive our 
future growth. 
Risk
We explain how we manage 
and mitigate the risks facing 
our business.
Performance
We made gains in EU and 
Non-EU markets with an excellent 
performance in emerging markets.
Responsibility
Acting responsibly is simply part 
of how we do business.
Governance
Our embedded high standards 
of corporate governance 
and our strong management 
team support our sales 
growth strategy.
In this report Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
p l
i t t p a
l
i i ent e
 This document is printed by Park Communications.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® Company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42; a paper sourced from well managed, 
sustainable, FSC certified forests, and bleached using a chlorine free process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
