 Building Total 
Tobacco Brands
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Introduction
Who we are
We’re a leading international tobacco company 
with a strong track record of creating value 
for our shareholders.
We employ 37,000 people and sell our 
products in more than 160 countries 
around the world.
Our total tobacco portfolio and our 
understanding of consumers set us 
apart from our competitors and provides 
significant future growth opportunities.
Our unique values further differentiate us, 
guiding the way we work with each other 
and our stakeholders.
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Cover image: Davidoff iD
We delivered 9 per cent volume growth in our 
key strategic premium brand Davidoff this year. 
The launch of Davidoff iD in the second half 
of the year was a major portfolio initiative to 
accelerate momentum behind the brand.
Building Total Tobacco Brands Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials
1
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Contents
Directors’ Report: Overview
IFC Introduction
2 Business Model
4 Results in Brief
5 Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report: Strategic Review
8  Chief Executive’s Review
11 Key Performance Indicators
12 People and Values
14 Sales Growth Drivers
18 Total Tobacco
20 Key Enablers
22 Case Study: Russia
Directors’ Report: Performance
28 Operating Review
33 Logistics
34 Financial Review
37 Corporate Responsibility Review
Directors’ Report: Risk Management
48 Risk Management
50 Governance, Assurance and Compliance
52 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report: Governance
58 Chairman’s Introduction
60 Board of Directors
64 Board Committees
70 Directors’ Governance Report 
77 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements and Notes 
95 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
 Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
96 Consolidated Income Statement
97  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
98 Consolidated Balance Sheet
99 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
100 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
101 Notes to the Financial Statements
137  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
138 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
139  Notes to the Financial Statements of
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Supplementary Information
141 Principal Undertakings
143 Shareholder Information
IBC Index
Strategy in 
Action
See how our 
focus on sales 
growth drivers 
and key enablers 
is delivering 
success.
In this report
Our Business 
Model
We outline how 
our business 
model creates 
value for our 
shareholders.
Operating Review
We show how 
we’re driving 
quality growth 
across our 
balanced 
geographic 
footprint.
Governance
We explain how 
high standards 
of governance 
are important to 
our long-term 
sustainability. Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials
2
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Model
Our Strategy
We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth, 
whilst effectively managing our costs and cash ﬂ ows. 
Our success is built around our differentiated approach; 
applying our in-depth consumer understandings to realise 
the potential of our total tobacco portfolio.
Our portfolio’s a unique asset encompassing a diverse array 
of great brands and products, from cigarettes to smokeless, 
from ﬁ ne cut tobacco to cigars. 
It’s a portfolio for all consumers, whatever their choices, 
and includes new and exciting consumer experiences we’re 
creating through innovation.
The work we’re doing with all our sales growth drivers and our 
key enablers is essential to our long-term sustainability, and our 
business model below shows how we bring our strategy to life 
to maximise returns for our shareholders.
  Read more in our 
strategic review on p8
How we create value How we create value
Portfolio 
Management
see p14
Pricing
see p16
Innovation
see p15
Customer
Engagement
see p17
Sales 
growth 
drivers
Total
Tobacco
see p18
Operation & supply chain alignment
Consumer insights
Shaping our environment
Key enablers
see p20
Our Business Model Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials
3
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risk
Supporting Sustainable Sales Growth
Governance 
The high standards of 
corporate governance we’ve 
embedded throughout the 
business are essential for 
ensuring our long-term 
sustainability.
  Read about our 
governance on p58
Responsibility 
Operating in a responsible 
manner is how we do 
business and supports 
sustainable value creation.
  Read about how we 
operate responsibly on p37
Risk Management
We actively identify, manage 
and mitigate the risks facing 
our business.
  Read about how we 
manage our risks on p48
Reward
We want our people to be 
fairly compensated and 
incentivised to deliver on 
our strategy.
  Read about our policy 
on remuneration on p77
How our 
Business Model 
Works
We’re building total tobacco 
brands that deliver high 
quality sustainable growth. 
This generates strong cash 
ﬂ ows which we use to 
reinvest in the business and 
reward our shareholders. 
Applying our sales growth 
drivers to our total tobacco 
portfolio, supported by our 
focus on key enablers, drives 
sustainable sales growth at 
high margins. 
  Read more on our sales 
growth drivers on p14 and 
our key enablers on p20
Sales
Maximising
Shareholder
Returns
Reinvest
High
Margin
Proﬁ ts
Strong
Cash Flow Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials
4
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Results in Brief
How we have
performed
  For our ﬁ nancial performance 
see p34
-2.7
%
Stick equivalents
2012: 336.6bn
+4
%
1
Tobacco net revenue
2012: £7,005m
+1 1
%
Dividend per share
2012: 105.6p
+4
%
1
Adjusted operating proﬁ t
2012: £3,161m
+8
%
1
Adjusted earnings per share
2012: 201.0p
Adjusted Earnings per Share (pence)
10
178.8
188.0
201.0
11 12
+8
%
1
Imperial
Tobacco
FTSE 100
Total Shareholder Return
07 08
75
100
125
150
175
09 10 11 12
1 Throughout the Annual Report percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
Performance
In 2012, we underperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 
8 percentage points. However, over ﬁ ve years we have 
outperformed by 34 per cent. With dividends reinvested £100 
invested in Imperial Tobacco ﬁ ve years ago would now be 
worth £142 compared to £106 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Deﬁ nition
Total Shareholder Return is the total investment gain to 
shareholders resulting from the movement in the share price 
and assuming dividends are immediately reinvested in shares.
Performance
We have grown adjusted earnings per share to 201.0 pence, 
up by 8 per cent, as we’ve continued to build on our sales 
momentum whilst ensuring costs and cash continue to be 
managed effectively.
Deﬁ nition
Adjusted earnings per share is adjusted proﬁ t after tax 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, 
excluding shares held to satisfy employee share plans and 
shares purchased by the Company and held as Treasury shares.
KPI KPI Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials
5
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Chairman’s Statement
We’ve made further good progress this year, growing sales while 
effectively managing our costs and cash ﬂ ows.
Our focus on building total tobacco brands is delivering quality 
growth across our total tobacco portfolio, including particularly 
strong performances from our key strategic brands. 
Improved Returns for our Shareholders
1
We grew total adjusted operating proﬁ ts by 4 per cent and 
delivered 8 per cent adjusted earnings per share growth to 
201.0 pence. Reported earnings per share were 68.1 pence, 
(2011: 177.3 pence), reﬂ ecting the write down of our Spanish 
goodwill, as a result of the deterioration in the Spanish economy. 
We explain this further in our ﬁ nance section on page 35.
We are increasing our dividend payout ratio to 52.5 per cent of 
adjusted earnings per share and your Board is recommending a 
ﬁ nal dividend of 73.9 pence, bringing the total dividend this year 
to 105.6 pence, up by 11 per cent
2
. 
Sustainability and Responsibility
By running a successful business, we make a positive 
contribution to the economic and social well-being of many 
countries around the world. We employ 37,000 employees 
and contribute around £20 billion every year in taxes. 
We also actively work with governments, non-governmental 
organisations and other stakeholders on issues of common 
concern, such as the illicit trade of tobacco products and 
protecting natural resources, which underpins our long-term 
sustainability. More details on our initiatives and progress 
are included in this report and on our website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and Board
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to make sure that Imperial 
Tobacco is governed and managed with openness, honesty and 
transparency. The Board and I are committed to ensuring this is 
the case.
We have further enhanced the skill set and mix of backgrounds 
and experiences of the Board with a number of appointments 
during the year. 
Matthew Phillips, Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director, was 
appointed to the Board as Corporate Affairs Director on 1 June 
2012, reﬂ ecting the signiﬁ cant role Corporate Affairs plays in 
supporting our sales growth strategy.
We also appointed two Non-Executive Directors: Malcolm 
Wyman and David Haines. Both bring considerable international 
experience across a range of industries. At our 2012 Annual 
General Meeting, Pierre Jungels retired from the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and as a result Mark Williamson was 
appointed Senior Independent Director and Malcolm Wyman 
was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee. I’d like to 
thank Pierre for his signiﬁ cant contribution to our success and 
wish him well for the future.
In Conclusion
2012 has been another successful year and I would like to thank 
all my colleagues; both those on the Board and our talented 
people around the world for their dedication and hard work. 
Our ongoing strategic focus aims to ensure that we continue to 
create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Iain Napier
Chairman
1 Throughout the Annual Report percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 This will be paid on 18 February 2013 to those shareholders on the register on 18 January 2013.
“ I’m pleased to introduce our 
2012 annual report which 
describes how we’re putting our 
strategy for growth into action, 
and how we ensure that we’re 
governed in the best interests 
of our stakeholders.”
Iain Napier Chairman Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
6
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
7
Strategic Review
8  Chief Executive’s Review
11 Key Performance Indicators
12 People and Values
14 Sales Growth Drivers
18 Total Tobacco
20  Key Enablers
22 Case Study: Russia
What you will ﬁ nd in this section: 
“ We’re making great progress 
generating quality sales from quality 
brands to drive sustainable returns.”
Strategic 
Review
JP JP JPS S S
JP JP JPS S c con on o ont ti tinu nued ed ed t t to o o re re reso so sona na a a a a at t t te te te te s s st tr tro o o on n n n n n n on ong gl gly y y wi w with th th v v val alue ue ue 
se se s ek ek ekin in i g g g g co co ons ns nsum um m umer er ers s s an an and d d d d d d we we w we we d d de e e e e el el el e el e e el l l li iv iv iver er red ed ed d v v v ver er ery y y po posi siti ti t ve ve 
re re re re resu su s lt lts s in in in n A A Aus us ustr tr t al alia ia a a a a a a an nd nd nd nd nd d t t th he he he he U U U U U U U U U U U UK K K K K K K K K K K K K K wh wh wher e ere e e we we we m m mad ad a e e 
ga ga ga ga gain in ins s i in in in i in c c c c c cig ig ig ig igar ar ar ar aret et et et ette te te te tes an an an an nd d d d d ﬁ ﬁ ﬁ ﬁ ﬁne n ne ne ne n ne e e ne e e ne e e e e e e c c c c c cut t ut t t tob ob obac ac acco co co c .
Building Total Tobacco Brands 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
8
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
Over the last two years we’ve made great progress in shifting 
our strategic focus to put consumers at the heart of our 
business and drive organic sales growth.
It’s been a rapid transition and we’re pleased with the progress 
we’re making, generating quality growth from quality brands to 
drive sustainable returns.
Our success is built around a differentiated approach that’s 
focused on applying our understanding of consumer motivations 
to realise the potential of our portfolio and offer consumers the 
best tobacco experiences.
The response from our people to these changes has been 
remarkable; a united focus on sales, on building total tobacco 
brands and on consistently applying our four sales growth 
drivers of portfolio management, innovation, pricing and 
customer engagement to deliver high quality sustainable growth.
2012 Results
Our focus on driving sales has delivered a number of highlights 
in the year.
We’ve increased tobacco net revenues by 4 per cent to 
£7.0 billion, as we continued to build momentum behind our 
total tobacco portfolio. 
Our overall volumes recovered strongly from our ﬁ rst quarter 
and we ended the year with overall stick equivalent volumes 
declining 2.7 per cent, the majority of which was due to ongoing 
market weakness in Ukraine and Poland and compliance with 
international trade sanctions in Syria. 
The quality of our brands and the growth they’re delivering is 
reﬂ ected in the strong portfolio gains we made in the year. 
The excellent performance of our key strategic brands, Davidoff, 
Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS, resulted in combined volume 
growth of 7 per cent and net revenue growth of 13 per cent.
Our ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes were stable, with net revenues 
up by 13 per cent. We delivered further strong results from 
premium cigars growing volumes by 11 per cent and revenues 
by 10 per cent and grew Scandinavian snus volumes by 
53 per cent and net revenues by 46 per cent.
We believe our approach positions us well to perform in 
countries experiencing difﬁ cult economic conditions. We have 
grown proﬁ ts in Spain this year, but the deterioration in the 
economy has led to us taking a non-cash impairment charge 
of £1.2 billion in the year, impacting our reported results, as we 
explain in more detail on page 35.
Building Brands: Key Strategic Brand Success
Driving momentum behind our key strategic brands is an 
ongoing priority. In 2010, Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West 
and JPS accounted for 26 per cent of our total stick equivalent 
volumes; today they account for 30 per cent – a great 
performance and one that we’re building on going forward.
Accelerating the sales momentum behind Davidoff has been 
a particular focus this year. We delivered volume growth of 
9 per cent and made excellent progress in Asia, the Middle East 
and Eastern Europe, gaining volume and share in proﬁ table 
consumer growth segments such as kingsize superslims and 
queen size. 
“ Our portfolio offers consumers 
unrivalled choice and provides 
signiﬁ cant opportunities for 
further growth. Our focus on 
realising this growth potential, 
whilst effectively managing 
cost and cash, will continue 
to maximise value for our 
shareholders.”
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
Driving quality 
 growth Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
9
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We’re making Davidoff more accessible to a wider range of 
consumers in both new and existing markets through the launch 
of Davidoff iD, a new kingsize range available in both standard 
and our innovative GlideTec packs. Davidoff iD has been rolled 
out to 19 markets including in Spain, Taiwan, Russia, Ukraine 
and Global Duty Free. 
We’ve further developed Gauloises Blondes this year building 
on the brand’s strong base in the EU and delivering very strong 
performances in Africa and the Middle East. We improved 
volumes by 11 per cent with innovation and portfolio 
management initiatives continuing to support the brand’s 
momentum, including the Tactil and crushball variants in France, 
and new additive free cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco launches 
in Germany. 
Innovation has been key to the positive performance we’ve 
delivered with West and volumes were up by 5 per cent. 
We delivered particularly good results in a number of markets 
in Eastern Europe and Asia-Paciﬁ c with queen size, kingsize 
superslims and crushball variants enhancing the brand’s proﬁ le 
in high growth segments.
JPS continues to resonate strongly with value seeking 
consumers. We delivered volume growth of 3 per cent with 
very positive results in Australia and the UK where we grew 
in both cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco. 
Our enhanced sales agenda initially focused on our key strategic 
brands; the priority two years ago was to drive growth in these 
brands and we’ll be building on our successes. 
We’re also growing other core brands in the portfolio such as 
News, Bastos, Maxim and Fine. These brands have strong 
heritage and we have a number of initiatives underway to add 
to their growth momentum.
Building Brands: Fine Cut Tobacco, Premium Cigars, 
Smokeless Tobacco
Our world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco is a real strength of our 
business, particularly in the current economic climate. We know 
the category and the consumers better than anyone.
Our performance reﬂ ects some great successes in the high 
growth make your own sector in core EU markets. We improved 
make your own volumes by 8 per cent; excluding Poland they 
were up 20 per cent. A number of strong brand performances 
are driving this growth, including JPS and Fairwind in Germany, 
West in the Netherlands and Ducados in Spain.
We also grew volumes in papers and tubes by 4 per cent and 
8 per cent respectively – adding to our margin generation from 
ﬁ ne cut tobacco consumption.
Our premium cigar division, which includes Habanos and other 
premium cigars, continues to perform well. We delivered very 
strong results in emerging markets through our luxury Cuban 
cigars, with excellent growth in China, Russia and the Middle 
East and we’re also driving good growth in premium cigars in 
the USA. Limited edition launches continue to support sales and 
overall, we increased volumes by 11 per cent and net revenues 
by 10 per cent, with emerging market volumes up 7 per cent 
and net revenues climbing 16 per cent. 
Excellent growth from our 
key strategic brands
1
+7
%
Key Strategic Brands
Volume Growth
+13
%
Key Strategic Brands 
Net Revenue 
Growth
1 Volume growth in our key strategic brands is on a stick equivalent basis.
+9
%
Volume Growth
+1 1
%
Volume Growth
+5
%
Volume Growth
+3
%
Volume Growth Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
10
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Our Scandinavian snus portfolio had another great year, building 
on what has been a strong track record of growth. 
Innovation: New Consumer Experiences
We’ve made great progress with our innovation pipeline this year 
as we continue to focus on creating new consumer experiences. 
We’re developing more concepts that can be rolled out across 
multiple markets to drive growth.
Through our GlideTec pack we’ve developed an industry leading 
innovation built around the sociability of smoking, enabling 
smokers to offer a cigarette with a one handed motion. 
This innovation provides smokers with choice and reinforces 
brand differentiation. 
Since its launch last year we’ve delivered sales of a billion 
cigarettes in 17 markets plus global duty free. GlideTec 
continues to improve the performance of our key strategic 
brands and strengthen the position of a number of brands in our 
portfolio with strong local heritage such as Lambert & Butler in 
the UK and Fortuna in Spain.
We’re also focused on growing share in high consumer growth 
segments. We launched a number of brands using crushball 
ﬁ lter technology which allows smokers to determine the strength 
of the menthol ﬂ avour in each cigarette. We’ve been expanding 
our kingsize superslims, superslims and queen size variants in 
many markets and through Gauloises Blondes applying our 
blend expertise to launch additive free cigarette and ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco products.
Pricing and Customer Engagement 
Our success at building our brands is also about further 
developing our pricing and excise strategies. Price-mix 
doubled in the year to 7 per cent (2011: 3.0 per cent) driven by 
innovation and our key strategic brands. We’ve strengthened 
our pricing analysis in a number of markets and broadened the 
price options available to consumers with additional formats. 
This has improved both consumer choice and the quality of 
our growth. 
Maximising the availability and advocacy of our portfolio at 
the point of sale is an important part of our sales strategy. 
One of our centres of excellence is Australia where customer 
engagement has been integral to the share gains we made in 
the year. 
High Margin Proﬁ ts
Strong ﬁ nancial discipline is a hallmark of our business and 
we continue to optimise costs throughout the company. 
We continue to invest for growth with an additional £200 million 
invested this year in brand and product initiatives and in people 
to support our sales growth agenda. Our diligent approach to 
balancing our investments and managing cost has enabled 
us to maintain strong tobacco operating margins at around 
42 per cent. 
Maximising Cash Returns 
High margin sales generate strong cash ﬂ ows that we use to 
reward our shareholders and reinvest to support our sales 
growth strategy. Cash conversion was 71 per cent, impacted 
by £0.5 billion working capital movements, in part reﬂ ecting the 
unwinding of a timing difference in our Italian logistics business 
and investment in our sales growth agenda. This included 
extending our leaf stock duration and new product launches. 
We’ve again delivered a strong dividend increase and have 
continued to steadily increase our dividends per share ahead of 
the growth in adjusted earnings per share. In addition, we spent 
£528 million during the year on our share buyback programme, 
acquiring 21.9 million shares.
Our People and Our Values
Our people and our values set us apart from other companies. 
Our values express what our business and our people stand 
for, guiding the way we work with each other and with our 
stakeholders, encouraging fresh thinking and new ways of 
driving success. The talent, commitment and energy of our 
37,000 people around the world is inspiring and I thank them 
all for their achievements in the year.
Creating Sustainable Value
We’ve put consumers at the forefront of everything we do and 
applied that to a portfolio that offers consumers unrivalled 
choice. We’ll continue to focus on building total tobacco brands 
and consumer experiences to deliver further high quality growth 
across our markets.
We’ll be driving revenue and proﬁ t growth in the EU whilst 
strengthening our position in the USA and targeting the 
signiﬁ cant growth opportunities that we have in our Rest of 
the World region.
Our focus on cost optimisation and effective cash management 
supports our sales agenda and by building on the momentum 
we’re generating we’ll continue to create sustainable value for 
our shareholders.
Alison Cooper 
Chief Executive
2013 Priorities 
We’re focusing on these key areas, to continue to drive 
sustainable sales in the coming year.
 – Further developing consumer understandings to drive 
portfolio strategies
 – Adding to the momentum across our total tobacco 
portfolio
 – Accelerating the international roll-out of Davidoff iD
 – Continuing to build our innovation pipeline to develop 
new consumer experiences
 – Capitalising on growth potential of our core 
heritage brands
 – Strengthening our anti-illicit trade activities across 
our market footprint
 – Enhancing our stakeholder engagement to encourage 
reasonable regulatory policies
 – Further embedding our values across the business Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 11
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Key Performance Indicators
Performance
Our tobacco adjusted operating margin was broadly stable 
at around 42 per cent, reﬂ ecting our diligent approach to 
investments and cost management.
Deﬁ nition
Tobacco adjusted operating margin is the tobacco adjusted 
operating proﬁ t divided by tobacco net revenue.
Performance
Our tobacco net revenue was up by 4.1 per cent (constant 
currency) to £7.0 billion with good net revenue growth in the UK, 
Germany, Rest of EU and Rest of the World regions more than 
offsetting declines elsewhere.
Deﬁ nition
Tobacco net revenue comprises tobacco revenue less duty and 
similar items, excluding peripheral products.
Performance
Cash conversion was 71 per cent, impacted by £0.5 billion 
working capital movements, in part reﬂ ecting the unwinding 
of a timing difference in our Italian logistics business that 
beneﬁ ted last year and our strategic decisions to support 
growth. These include extending our leaf stock duration and 
product launches supporting our sales growth agenda.
Deﬁ nition
Cash conversion is calculated as cash ﬂ ow from operations 
before interest and tax payments less net capital expenditure 
relating to property, plant and equipment and software as a 
percentage of adjusted operating proﬁ t.
Performance
Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 2.7 per cent, mostly 
due to ongoing market weakness in Ukraine and Poland and 
compliance with international trade sanctions in Syria.
Deﬁ nition
Stick equivalent volumes reﬂ ect our combined cigarette and 
ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes. 
Our 2011 and 2010 stick equivalent volumes have been 
restated due to a change to the conversion factors used to 
convert the ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes into stick equivalent 
volumes, reﬂ ecting increasing consumption patterns of 
expanded tobacco products.
Tobacco Net Revenue (£bn)
Relevance to Business Model: Sales
10
6.8
6.9
7.0
11 12
£7.0
bn
Stick Equivalent Volumes (bn)
Relevance to Business Model: Sales
10
350.3 346.0
336.6
11 12
336.6
bn
Cash Conversion Rate (%)
Relevance to Business Model: Strong Cash Flow
10
97
88
71
11 12
71
%
Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin (%)
Relevance to Business Model: High Margin Proﬁts
10
42.5 42.3
42.7
11 12
42.7
%
KPI KPI
KPI KPI Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
12
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
People and Values
Our people are highly skilled and committed to
delivering excellence. We’re focused on supporting
them to develop their skills and achieve their 
career aspirations.
Driving our 
business forward
Values, capabilities and engagement 
are integral to the development of 
our people.
Our capability framework is aligned 
with our values and strategy, and 
includes the behaviours, skills and 
knowledge required for our people 
to achieve our sales growth ambitions. 
We’re focused on creating an inspiring 
environment where people can do 
their best work. We support their 
career aspirations and encourage 
creative thinking so that their talents 
and skills ﬂ ourish.
People
Values
Engagement
Capabilities
  
See how we are enabling our people
to drive our strategy forward p43 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 13
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our values uniquely express what our business and our 
people stand for. The combination of the ‘We’ and the ‘I’ 
values reﬂ ect the way we operate, encouraging both 
collaborative teamwork and individual contribution. 
We surprise
New thinking, new 
actions, exceed 
what’s possible
We enjoy
Thrive on challenge, 
make it fun
I own
See it, seize it, 
make it happen
I engage
Listen, share, 
make connections
I am
My contribution 
counts, think free, 
speak free, act 
with integrity
We can
Everything is possible, 
together we win Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
14
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sales Growth Drivers
Driving quality
growth
“ The starting point 
is always our 
consumers; we’re 
building total tobacco 
brands that truly 
resonate with them.”
Roberto Funari 
Group Marketing Director 
  For an overview of our 
business model see p2
Portfolio 
Management
Pricing
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Sales 
growth 
drivers
Portfolio Management 
More Consumers, More Occasions
Total Tobacco in Action
Through portfolio management we apply our unique portfolio to maximise 
our share of consumers and consumption occasions to drive quality 
growth. Put simply, it’s total tobacco in action.
The starting point is always our consumers; understanding their choices 
and preferences through our consumer insight work is crucial to the 
way we manage our portfolio. It enables us to make the most of sales 
growth opportunities by building total tobacco brands that truly resonate 
with consumers.
Enhancing Davidoff Sales
Our work on developing Davidoff to realise its global growth potential 
has been a major portfolio management initiative during the year. 
Davidoff is a key strategic brand that continues to perform strongly 
on an international scale. In June we launched Davidoff iD, a new 
kingsize range that’s enhanced the brand’s appeal to a far wider 
base of consumers whilst retaining its premium credentials. 
We’ve made Davidoff iD available in standard and GlideTec packs 
and by the end of the year we’d launched it in 19 markets 
worldwide, with many more to follow. The response from consumers 
and retailers has been excellent and the sales we’re generating are 
enhancing Davidoff’s overall growth momentum.
Davidoff volumes (bns)
11 10
18.1
17.0
19.7
12
+6
%
3 year CAGR Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 15
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
GlideTec volumes
Feb 11
Number of cigarettes
Sep 12
  For an overview of our 
business model see p2
Portfolio 
Management
Pricing
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Sales 
growth 
drivers
Innovation
New Consumer Experiences
Delivering High Returns
As with portfolio management, deep consumer insights are key to our 
innovation sales growth driver. We’re translating those insights into 
tangible ideas and concepts that allow us to deliver new consumer 
experiences across our total tobacco portfolio. 
The innovation pipeline we’re building focuses on scalable initiatives that 
will deliver high returns. By scalable, we mean innovations that have 
international appeal and can be rolled out across our diverse markets.
World-leading GlideTec Pack
GlideTec is a world-leading pack innovation built around the sociability 
of smoking, enabling smokers to offer a cigarette with a one handed 
motion. Pack innovations like GlideTec provide smokers with choice 
and reinforce brand differentiation.
First launched in the UK with Lambert & Butler, GlideTec’s a great 
example of how we combine consumer insights with a fewer, bigger, 
better approach to deliver quality growth across multiple markets.
So far we’ve launched GlideTec in 17 markets including in France 
with Gauloises, Spain with Fortuna, Germany with JPS and in Saudi 
Arabia with Davidoff iD. We’ve already sold over a billion cigarettes in 
GlideTec packs and this innovation will be applied to more brands in 
more markets in the coming year.
>1bn
GlideTec 
sales Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
16
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
  For an overview of our 
business model see p2
Portfolio 
Management
Pricing
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Sales 
growth 
drivers
Sales Growth Drivers continued
Developing stronger 
connections
Pricing
Maximising Revenue Growth
Managing Pricing and Excise
Our understanding of consumer purchasing behaviours enables us to 
make effective pricing decisions by brand, pack size and sales channel. 
We’re focused on maximising revenue growth whilst continuing to give 
consumers value for money.
Excise can account for over 80 per cent of the price that consumers 
pay for tobacco products in some markets and so it’s important that 
we consider government excise strategies as part of our pricing 
decisions. We encourage governments to take a sensible approach 
to excise increases in order to protect their revenues and to avoid 
fuelling illicit trade.
USA Pricing Strategy
Our cigarette market share in the USA has been under pressure due 
to the increasingly uncompetitive price positioning of our two main 
brands, USA Gold and Sonoma.
We conducted a detailed and thorough pricing analysis, taking the 
time to understand what drives the purchasing behaviours of our 
consumers. Based on these insights we devised a new pricing 
strategy with the objective of stabilising our market share. 
Between February and May 2012 we successfully trialled our new 
strategy in four key states and in June we applied this strategic 
approach to a further 15 states.
The strategy’s improved the performance of USA Gold and Sonoma 
and stabilised our overall cigarette market share at 3.4 per cent over 
the remaining three months of the ﬁ nancial year. Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 17
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
  For an overview of our 
business model see p2
Portfolio 
Management
Pricing
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Sales 
growth 
drivers
“ We’re building even 
stronger connections 
with our retail 
partners around 
the world to drive 
sales growth.”
Arthur van Benthem
Group Sales Director
Customer Engagement
Availability and Advocacy
Excellent Retail Partnerships
We have long-standing partnerships with retailers around the world, 
from large multi-national supermarkets to small independent shops, 
and through customer engagement we work hard to provide them 
with excellent service at all times.
We work with our retail partners to maximise both the availability and the 
advocacy of our brands and products at the point of sale which is an 
important part of our sales strategy. Customer engagement beneﬁ ts both 
parties and is particularly important in highly regulated environments 
where the voice of the retailer is crucial to building consumer awareness 
of new brand launches and innovations.
Customer Engagement in Australia
Our continued focus on building our customer relationships in 
Australia is delivering excellent results. This further supports our 
investments behind our portfolio and key brands Horizon, JPS 
and Champion and builds awareness of our innovation initiatives.
Retailer advocacy is particularly important in Australia given the 
introduction of the plain packaging of tobacco products in 
December 2012. 
Last year we worked closely with our trade customers during 
the plain packaging consultation and our ‘No Nanny State’ 
advertising campaign. This helped us to further strengthen these 
key relationships. 
Customer engagement has been essential to the market share 
gains we have delivered this year: we’ve grown our Australian 
cigarette share to 19.4 per cent and our ﬁ ne cut tobacco share to 
60.7 per cent (2011: 19.1 per cent and 59.9 per cent respectively). Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
18
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Total Tobacco
Total 
Tobacco
 
  
           We are driving quality volume and revenue growth 
by building total tobacco brands and developing new 
consumer experiences. Through our unique portfolio 
we provide consumers with the ﬁ nest range of brands 
and products in the world.
Unrivalled 
consumer choices
We sell some of the world’s most popular 
cigarette brands and are global leaders 
in ﬁ ne cut tobacco, papers and tubes. 
We exclusively sell all the luxury Cuban 
cigar brands around the world and 
have a very successful smokeless 
tobacco business.
Our expertise in all these tobacco 
categories, coupled with our consumer 
insights, is enabling us to build total 
tobacco brands that will deliver 
long-term quality growth.
No 1 in papers 
and tubes
No 1 in 
ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco
No 1 in 
luxury 
Cuban cigars
A growing key 
strategic brand 
portfolio
Total 
Tobacco
  For an overview 
of our business 
model see p2 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 19
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We take time to understand our consumers and 
continually evolve our portfolio so that it remains 
fresh and exciting to the millions of people around 
the world who enjoy our brands and products. Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
20
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Key Enablers
Supporting our 
sales growth strategy
Consumer Insights
Understanding What Drives our Consumers
We’re focused on truly understanding consumer motivations 
and translating these insights into innovations and portfolio 
strategies that provide our consumers with unrivalled choice. 
Our consumers are experimenting with more formats and we’re 
providing new experiences across the tobacco spectrum. 
By actively listening to them and translating our learning across 
our portfolio, we’re able to further build our brands and develop 
innovations that deliver high quality growth.
Operation and Supply Chain 
Alignment
A Fast and Flexible Business Focused on Delivery
Across our manufacturing and supply chain operations we’re 
focused on operational excellence, delivering our sales growth 
strategy in the most efﬁ cient way possible. We’re especially 
focused on maximising product availability and quality. 
We’re responding quickly to insights from our consumers to 
evolve our portfolio and deliver innovative brands and products 
that enable us to maximise growth opportunities.
For example, in the 2012 Advantage International Survey 
of Global Duty Free Customers, Imperial Tobacco was 
ranked as the highest performing tobacco manufacturer, 
and third of all FMCG participants, in Logistics and Supply 
Chain management.
Operation & supply chain alignment
Consumer insights
Shaping our environment
  For an overview of our 
business model see p2
Key enablers Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 21
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Proactively Shaping our Environment
Our Proactive Approach
We’re very experienced at successfully developing our business in 
a highly regulated environment and we work constructively with 
governments and other organisations to ﬁ nd reasonable solutions 
to regulatory issues. 
We support proportionate regulation that’s based on sound evidence but 
will continue to speak out against regulatory proposals that don’t meet 
these criteria. 
We’re very concerned at how extreme regulation and excessive tobacco 
tax increases can fuel the growth in illicit trade. This is damaging to 
everyone except the criminals who proﬁ t from tobacco smuggling and 
counterfeiting: children can more easily obtain tobacco products, 
governments are deprived of tax revenues and the livelihoods of 
independent tobacco retailers are threatened.
We regularly make these points through our global stakeholder 
engagement activities and encourage regulatory authorities in particular 
to recognise the relationship between regulation, excise and illicit trade.
We also partner with governments and law enforcement agencies 
internationally to proactively tackle the smuggling and counterfeiting 
of tobacco. 
Our commitment to combating illicit trade is underpinned by the 
numerous anti-illicit trade agreements we have around the world, 
including a long-term partnership that we initiated with the European 
Commission and EU member states. 
  You can read more about regulation and 
our anti-illicit trade activities on p42
“ We’re partnering with 
governments and law 
enforcement agencies 
internationally to 
proactively tackle 
the illicit trade in 
tobacco products.”
Matthew Phillips 
Corporate Affairs Director Overview Risk Performance Governance Financials
22
Strategic Review
RUSSIA
Driving Quality Growth in 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 23
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
On the following pages we 
show how different elements 
of our strategy come together 
to deliver success in one of our 
key emerging markets.
Growing a Successful Business
Eastern Europe is a key strategic growth area for our business 
and we are delivering quality growth in Russia.
Russia is the largest country in the world and the second largest 
tobacco market, after China, with annual cigarette volumes of 
more than 350 billion. 
We sell more cigarettes in Russia than in any other country; our 
annual sales are 35 billion cigarettes and we have a 9.3 per cent 
market share. 
Central to our success has been the strength and versatility of 
our portfolio and the consistent application of our four key sales 
growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, customer 
engagement and pricing. 
Our work on our three key enablers supports our sales 
performance. We’re developing deep consumer insights to 
help shape our portfolio strategies, whilst managing complex 
manufacturing and supply chain operations that are aligned 
with our sales ambitions.
The regulatory and excise climate continues to evolve and 
through our focus on proactive stakeholder engagement we’re 
actively participating in the ongoing debates. 
Critical to our Russian success story is our people and the 
unique Imperial values that bind them and guide the way they 
do business.
Building Sustainable Sales
Over the years we’ve continually developed our portfolio to 
ensure it’s well positioned to deliver sustainable sales, focusing 
on the brands and tobacco market segments where consumer 
demand is strongest.
By focusing investment and innovation on four key cigarette 
brands, Davidoff, West, Style and Maxim, we’re making 
signiﬁ cant gains in high growth slimmer formats like slims, 
superslims and kingsize superslims.
We’ve also been active in the ﬁ eld of ﬁ lter innovation and Russia 
was one of the ﬁ rst markets in which we launched West Duo, 
a cigarette that offers consumers the option of a mint ﬂ avour 
burst by squeezing a mint crushball in the ﬁ lter. 
Managing Regulatory Change
We have a long track record of delivering international growth 
against a backdrop of evolving tobacco regulation.
In Russia our engagement focus has been on highlighting the 
adverse consequences of government plans to implement 
signiﬁ cant regulatory and excise change.
This could potentially involve considerable rises in tobacco 
excise and restrictions on both smoking in public places and 
the display of tobacco products in retail outlets.
We’re encouraging our Russian stakeholders to recognise 
the impact that this disproportionate approach to regulation 
and excise has on illicit trade through our proactive 
engagement activities.
The evidence from other markets around the world is clear: 
rapidly rising excise duties combined with excessive 
regulation increases the smuggling and counterfeiting of 
tobacco products.
This illicit trade in tobacco is a signiﬁ cant and growing global 
problem and we’ll continue to draw attention to the issue 
whilst also partnering with law enforcement agencies to 
combat illicit trade. Performance Risk Governance Financials
24
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Strategic Review
Driving Quality Growth in Russia continued
In addition, our total tobacco focus means we’re able to meet 
consumer demand for cigars, including popular mass market 
brands as well as prestigious Cuban premium brands through 
our exclusive partnership with Habanos.
Offering consumers different brands and products across the 
pricing spectrum, from premium to value, drives our focused 
approach to pricing. 
Through extensive ongoing price modelling we seek to 
enhance revenue growth whilst giving our consumers a quality 
smoking experience.
And then there’s our customer engagement work. We want 
our trade partners to advocate our portfolio at the point of sale, 
so we’re building even stronger retail partnerships across 
the country. 
This is particularly true within the supermarket sales channel, 
which is growing rapidly and is responsible for an increasing 
volume of tobacco sales to consumers.
Delivering Excellent Results
This integrated strategic approach to maximising sales growth 
opportunities in Russia continues to deliver excellent results.
In 2012 we again built on our track record of success, growing 
our volumes by 4 per cent.
Our four key cigarette brands delivered excellent performances: 
Maxim grew by 13 per cent, Davidoff by 16 per cent, Style by 
26 per cent and West was up by 6 per cent.
These portfolio achievements provide a strong platform for 
future success and we’re very excited about our prospects 
in Russia. 
We’ve got the right strategic approach, the right portfolio 
and the right people to take our business forward which 
gives us great conﬁ dence in our ability to deliver long-term 
sustainable growth.
2
Factories Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 25
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Focused on Delivery
The sheer size of Russia and its nine different time zones 
present unique regional and logistical challenges. 
From an operational perspective our local team, led by General 
Manager Wayne Merrett, view Russia not as a single country 
but as several individual markets, each with their own very 
different characteristics.
“Our strategic approach has to take regional differences into 
account,” said Wayne, “applying our portfolio and our sales 
growth drivers in different ways to reﬂ ect the wide range of 
local consumer and trade customer preferences.
“Our opportunities for growth in somewhere like Siberia for 
instance, where we have a 15 per cent market share, are very 
different to those in the south of the country where we have a 
smaller market share.”
Finding solutions to the logistical complexities of running a 
successful business in Russia is a stimulating challenge for 
Wayne and his team.
“Not only are the winters very harsh but as we arrive at our 
Moscow ofﬁ ce each morning, our people furthest east are 
coming to the end of their working day,” he said.
Furthermore, products manufactured at our two 
factories in Volgograd and Yaroslavl take three to 
four weeks to arrive at the furthest outposts in the 
east, some 8,000 kilometres away. 
“Having a reliable distributor in place is essential but this is 
backed up by our great portfolio, a clear strategy and our really 
motivated people,” said Wayne. 
“The drive and enthusiasm of our people are critical to our 
ongoing success. Our values underpin everything we do 
and we have a continual focus on employee engagement 
and development.”
This includes performance recognition programmes and 
partnering with local universities to run leadership training 
courses. Wayne also chairs quarterly meetings with employee 
representatives and the local Board of directors that provides 
an opportunity to discuss business issues.
“ The drive and enthusiasm 
of our people are critical 
to our ongoing success.”
Wayne Merrett General Manager Russia and Belarus
1,900
Employees Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
26
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 Operating Review
33 Logistics
34 Financial Review
37 Corporate Responsibility Review
What you will find in this section: 
“ We’re focused on driving quality 
growth across our regions, building 
total tobacco brands that resonate 
with consumers and will deliver 
long-term sustainable sales.”
Performance
Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 27
Performance
Luxu u u ury ry ry ry y y ry y y ry y C C C Cub u ub u ub u u an c cig g gar r r rs s
Ou u O r ciga ga ar r r po po po po p p p po p p rtfo fo fo foli i li li li i io o o o o in n i cl clud des som ome e e e of of o o t t the he e h 
wo o orl r d’s mo mo o most st st st t t t t st s p p p p pre es st st s st st s s ig ig ig g igio io o o ous brand ds in in n n ncl cl lud u ud u in ing g
Co C Co Cohi hib ba, Mont nt nt t t te ec ec ec c ec e e e rist st st st sto o o o o o o o a a a a and n nd nd nd n Rome eo y Ju Ju uli li liet et eta a.
W We e W W W ’r r re e co c nt tin nui ui u ng ng ng g g g g ng t t to de de e e e eli li li li li l ve v ve ve ver r very y stron ng re re esu sult lts
in in em me me merg rgin i g ma mark rk rk rk rk rket et et et t t e e e ets, s s s s s s ach ch h h ch h hie ie ie ie ie ievi v v v v ng e exc xcellent n 
gr grow w w wth th th in C China, a, R Rus us s s s s s ssi si si s s s a an an n n nd d d d d d d d th t th th the e Mi M dd d le Eas as as st. t. t t.
Building Total Tobacco Brands
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance
Volume
Billions
Stick
equivalents Cigarettes Fine cut tobacco
2012 2011
1
2012 2011 2012 2011
1
UK 25.3 25.6 18.7 19.2 6.6 6.4
Germany 32.0 32.2 22.6 23.4 9.4 8.8
Spain 22.0 23.8 18.7 20.8 3.3 3.0
Rest of EU 74.7 80.3 53.4 57.8 21.3 22.5
Americas 10.8 12.8 10.3 12.3 0.5 0.5
Rest of the 
World 171.8 171.3 168.8 168.6 3.0 2.7
Total 336.6 346.0 292.5 302.1 44.1 43.9
1 Our 2011 stick equivalent volumes have been restated due to a change 
to the conversion factors used to convert ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes 
into stick equivalent volumes reﬂ ecting consumption patterns of 
expanded tobacco.
Net Revenue
2
£ million 2012
Foreign 
exchange 
2012
Constant 
currency 
growth
Change at 
constant 
currency
% 2011
UK 936 – 67 7.7 869
Germany 861 (47) 29 3.3 879
Spain 470 (26) (1) (0.2) 497
Rest of EU 1,534 (94) 36 2.3 1,592
Americas 660 12 (83) (11.4) 731
Rest of the 
World 2,544 (34) 233 9.9 2,345
Total 7,005 (189) 281 4.1 6,913
Adjusted Operating Proﬁ t
2
£ million 2012
Foreign 
exchange 
2012
Constant 
currency 
growth
Change at 
constant 
currency
% 2011
UK 627 3 47 8.1 577
Germany 448 (22) 9 2.0 461
Spain 202 (11) 13 6.5 200
Rest of EU 626 (40) 8 1.2 658
Americas 214 6 (26) (11.1) 234
Rest of the 
World 872 20 58 7.3 794
Total 2,989 (44) 109 3.7 2,924
2 We focus on adjusted, or non-GAAP measures which management use 
to run and control our business.
Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
28
Performance
Operating Review Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 29
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In our operating review we provide details about how we’re 
bringing our strategy to life in our regions and markets. We 
explain the external environment and consumer dynamics that 
have characterised 2012 and how we’ve driven performance.
Driving Quality Growth 
We focus on driving quality growth across our regions, building 
total tobacco brands that resonate with consumers and will 
deliver long-term sustainable sales growth.
We’re achieving this by consistently applying our sales growth 
drivers combined with our consumer understandings to 
realise the growth potential of our brands and products across 
our markets.
Our versatile portfolio spans the tobacco spectrum, providing 
strength in all major consumer growth segments within 
cigarette, ﬁ ne cut tobacco, cigar and smokeless. This means 
we’re able to meet the needs of changing consumer 
preferences to maximise growth. 
In the developed markets of the EU our bias is on driving 
revenue and proﬁ t performance, whilst actively managing our 
market share positions. We focus on maximising returns by 
strategically balancing market shares, revenues and proﬁ ts.
The economic and regulatory climate in a number of 
developed markets continues to shape consumer choices. 
Many consumers are economising, further stimulating growth 
in value brands and products. We’re well-positioned to continue 
to capitalise on this dynamic through our value cigarette brands 
and world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco, whilst also realising 
opportunities for our premium portfolio.
Our Rest of the World focus is biased to quality volume and 
share growth. The region includes some developed markets 
such as Australia, but primarily comprises developing countries 
in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and Asia. In many 
of these countries there are consumers with rising disposable 
incomes who are increasingly demanding premium brands, 
but there is also a value dynamic in place.
Our investments are weighted towards supporting sales in this 
region and enhancing momentum behind our key strategic 
brands Davidoff, Gauloises, West and JPS. New cigarette 
formats like kingsize superslims and queen size are growing 
rapidly and we’re increasing our share of consumption in these 
high growth segments. We’re also focused on capitalising on 
the growing demand for our luxury Cuban cigars.
Our Financial Performance
We grew net revenue and adjusted operating proﬁ t in the EU, 
although challenging economic conditions affected results 
in some markets. In the UK we increased net revenues and 
adjusted operating proﬁ t by 8 per cent and in Germany net 
revenues were up over 3 per cent and adjusted operating 
proﬁ t grew by 2 per cent.
Further weakness in market volumes in Spain affected our 
performance, although a strong sales mix meant our net 
revenues were ﬂ at and we grew our adjusted operating proﬁ ts 
by over 6 per cent. However, further deterioration in the 
Spanish economy means that under IFRS accounting standards 
the value of intangibles previously allocated to Spain has 
been reduced by £1.2 billion. More detail is provided in our 
ﬁ nancial review on page 35.
Despite macro-economic weakness in our Rest of EU region, 
we grew our net revenues by 2 per cent and adjusted operating 
proﬁ ts by 1 per cent.
Outside the EU we delivered net revenue growth of almost 
5 per cent and increased adjusted operating proﬁ ts by 
3 per cent. In the Americas, where our primary market is the 
USA, our net revenue and adjusted operating proﬁ t both 
declined by 11 per cent. In the Rest of the World region we 
delivered an excellent performance. We grew our net revenues 
by just under 10 per cent and our adjusted operating proﬁ t by 
over 7 per cent.
UK
Market Context
In the UK we estimate that the overall duty paid market declined 
by 3 per cent, with cigarettes down by 6 per cent and ﬁ ne 
cut tobacco up by 8 per cent. The overall duty paid market 
continued to be impacted by signiﬁ cant duty increases that 
have taken place during the last two years. 
Performance Highlights
Innovation continues to strengthen our UK portfolio and support 
our leading Lambert & Butler brand franchise. During the year 
we rolled-out GlideTec packs nationally, Lambert & Butler Proﬁ le 
(queen size cigarettes) and Lambert & Butler Fresh Burst (with 
a crushball menthol ﬁ lter) to strengthen the brand’s position and 
enhance our sales mix. 
We also continued to focus on the performance of our value 
brands JPS Silver and Windsor Blue. These brands grew with 
our overall cigarette market share broadly held at 45.0 per cent.
In September, we strengthened the premium offerings within 
our portfolio with the launch of Davidoff iD cigarettes and 
Montecristo mini cigars.
Our ﬁ ne cut tobacco share was 47.4 per cent, reﬂ ecting 
declines in Golden Virginia and Drum although we delivered 
further positive performances from JPS and Gold Leaf and 
grew our volumes and proﬁ ts.
Germany
Market Context
In Germany we estimate that the overall market was broadly 
stable. Cigarette volumes were down 2 per cent and ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco volumes were up 3 per cent, with strong growth in 
make your own tobacco, up by 5 per cent. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
30
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating Review continued
Performance Highlights
Our cigarette market share declined in the year to 25.8 per cent 
partly due to West which was impacted by further downtrading. 
However our share has been on an improving trend during 
the second half due to the success of a number of portfolio 
initiatives. The sales momentum we’re generating has been 
driven by the launch of JPS GlideTec and several limited editions 
of Gauloises Blondes. 
We’re making excellent progress in ﬁ ne cut tobacco, leveraging 
our expertise to capitalise on growing consumer demand. 
JPS and Route 66 make your own tobacco are performing 
particularly well, up by 28 per cent and 16 per cent respectively, 
which combined with the success of the Fairwind brand 
launched in March, has improved our overall ﬁ ne cut tobacco 
share to 22.3 per cent. 
Spain
Market Context
Economic conditions remain difﬁ cult in Spain; high 
unemployment and increasing government austerity measures 
are placing further pressures on consumers and the duty paid 
tobacco market, with illicit trade a growing problem.
Against this backdrop, we estimate that the overall duty 
paid market declined by 10 per cent, with cigarettes down 
13 per cent and ﬁ ne cut tobacco up 17 per cent.
As explained in our ﬁ nancial review on page 35, the macro 
economic indicators have resulted in us taking a non-cash 
impairment charge of £1.2 billion during the year.
Performance Highlights
We are the number one tobacco company in Spain, with leading 
positions in all tobacco categories. We continue to strengthen 
our leadership by evolving our portfolio to reﬂ ect changing 
consumer preferences.
Fortuna is a brand with a rich heritage in Spain and we’re 
improving its cigarette share performance through a number of 
initiatives including Fortuna GlideTec, Fortuna 24 and Fortuna 
Redline. Consumers have also responded very well to new 
Nobel formats, with Nobel Style and Nobel Slims supporting 
the brand’s overall growth. 
We’ve built on the momentum behind Fortuna and Nobel 
and have grown our domestic blonde cigarette share to 
28.3 per cent. In addition, we enhanced our portfolio with 
the launch of Davidoff iD in June.
In ﬁ ne cut tobacco we achieved excellent growth with our 
market share up to 41.6 per cent. Our strong performance 
was driven by the ongoing success of Ducados Rubio and 
Fortuna ﬁ ne cut tobacco products, reﬂ ecting our focus on 
building brands across the tobacco spectrum.
Rest of EU
Regional Context
We estimate that overall duty paid regional volumes were down 
by 3 per cent, reﬂ ecting cigarette market declines of 5 per cent 
and ﬁ ne cut tobacco growth of 6 per cent. 
Performance Highlights
We’ve been actively managing our portfolio in France, our 
largest and most proﬁ table market in this region, with cigarette 
innovations including Gauloises Tactil (in a GlideTec pack) and 
Gauloises D-clic (with a crushball ﬁ lter) supporting our recent 
cigarette market share improvements and proﬁ t growth.
Our market shares are also on an improving trend in other 
markets such as the Netherlands and Czech Republic, and 
we’ve delivered further market share growth elsewhere in the 
region including in Italy and Portugal.
In ﬁ ne cut tobacco, overall regional volumes were held back by 
signiﬁ cant growth in non-duty paid volumes in Poland. 
JPS grew by 7 per cent, achieving particular success in make 
your own tobacco, reﬂ ecting our success in optimising 
performance in high consumer growth segments.
Elsewhere we grew our ﬁ ne cut tobacco shares for the year 
in Austria and Belgium and our shares in other markets such 
as France and Hungary have been on an improving trend in 
recent months.
In Scandinavia, our snus business delivered another exceptional 
performance with volumes up by 53 per cent and our market 
shares in Sweden and Norway increasing to 7.2 per cent and 
27.0 per cent respectively. 
Americas
Market Context
In our Americas region, our focus is on the USA which remains 
very competitive with consumer dynamics focused around value 
brands. We estimate the overall cigarette market was down by 
4 per cent.
Performance Highlights
We completed the integration of our cigarette and mass market 
cigar sales forces during the year and are refocusing our 
business with a new management team to drive growth in 
key states.
Through customer engagement we’re strengthening retailer 
partnerships and we’ve stabilised USA Gold and Sonoma 
shares as a result of a new cigarette pricing strategy that was 
rolled out across 19 states in the summer after a successful 
trial phase.
The excellent performance of our premium cigar portfolio meant 
we improved volumes by 11 per cent and revenues by more 
than 10 per cent and we’ll be building on this strong growth 
going forward.  Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 31
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Rest of the World:
Regional Context
Our Rest of the World region encompasses diverse markets, 
providing us with huge growth opportunities particularly with 
our key strategic brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West 
and JPS. We’re generating signiﬁ cant momentum behind 
these brands, growing regional volumes by 14 per cent and 
net revenue by 10 per cent.
Performance Highlights
In Asia-Paciﬁ c, we’ve grown our proﬁ ts by 17 per cent and 
made excellent progress in our market shares in several 
countries including Taiwan, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand. 
In Taiwan, we launched Davidoff iD in July and growth in West 
took our overall market share to 11.5 per cent.
In Australia JPS continued to grow strongly driving our cigarette 
market share up to 19.4 per cent and our ﬁ ne cut tobacco share 
up to 60.7 per cent. Bastos grew volumes in the region by 
10 per cent with an excellent performance in Vietnam and Laos.
Across Eastern Europe innovative formats of our brands 
continue to grow, particularly in the popular kingsize superslims 
and queen size cigarette segments and in both Russia and 
Ukraine, we launched Davidoff iD. 
We grew Davidoff, Style and West in Ukraine which supported 
growth in our cigarette share in recent months. In Russia, we 
also grew Davidoff, Style and West supported by strong growth 
from Maxim although our overall market share was down 
slightly. More details on our Russian business are included 
in a case study on pages 22 to 25.
In Africa and the Middle East we grew our overall volumes by 
6 per cent and made excellent progress with Gauloises Blondes 
with regional volumes up by 20 per cent and continued strong 
growth in Algeria and Morocco. 
In Africa we grew volumes of Fine by 14 per cent, with particular 
success in Côte D’Ivoire, Chad and Congo. In the Middle East 
Davidoff and West made strong gains, particularly with 
innovative formats including kingsize superslims and slims 
in Saudi Arabia and we recently launched Davidoff iD.
We delivered another strong emerging market performance 
across our luxury Cuban cigar portfolio which includes 
Montecristo, Cohiba and Romeo y Julieta. Limited editions 
have continued to support the excellent growth momentum 
we’re achieving; net revenues were up 13 per cent in China, 
38 per cent in Russia and 19 per cent in the Middle East region.
Cigarette Market Shares
1
% 2012 2011
Algeria 15.2 12.2
Australia 19.4 19.1
France
3
22.5 22.6
Germany 25.8 26.6
Greece 11.5 11.2
2
Ireland 22.9 23.8
Italy 2.5 2.2
Morocco 81.2 83.1
Netherlands 11.4 11.4
Poland 23.0 25.0
Portugal 10.3 8.0
Russia 9.3 9.4
2
Spain
3
28.3 28.1
Taiwan 11.5 11.3
Turkey 3.6 3.3
UK 45.0 45.1
Ukraine 22.0 22.5
2
USA 3.4 3.9
Vietnam 10.3 9.8
Fine Cut Tobacco Market Shares
1
% 2012 2011
Australia 60.7 59.9
Belgium 16.1 14.7
2
France 21.2 21.4
2
Germany 22.3 20.4
2
Netherlands 45.1 46.3
2
Poland 55.4 60.1
Spain 41.6 40.3
2
UK 47.4 51.0
1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
2 Restated due to change of source or basis.
3 Domestic blonde market share. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
32
Performance
Operating Review continued
Building on our Growth Momentum
Our focus in 2013 remains on building total tobacco brands 
that generate long-term quality growth.
In our developed markets such as those in the EU and 
Australia, consumers will continue to seek value and we have 
the brands and products to capitalise on this trend and drive 
revenue and proﬁ t growth, providing our consumers with 
unrivalled choice and value. We’re also seeking to further 
build our portfolio for those consumers looking for premium 
brands and products. 
We see signiﬁ cant growth opportunities in our Rest of 
the World region across Eastern Europe, Africa and the 
Middle East and Asia Paciﬁ c and we’ll continue to invest 
to support sustainable growth, building on the strong 
momentum of Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and West. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 33
Performance
Logistics
Our logistics business has 
operations in Spain, France, 
Italy, Portugal and Poland 
and is one of the largest of 
its kind in Europe. 
Logistics Overview
Our logistics business has operations in Spain, France, Italy, 
Portugal and Poland and is one of the largest of its kind in 
Europe. We make more than 40 million deliveries every year 
and specialise in different sectors and channels. There are 
two key aspects to our business: tobacco and non-tobacco 
logistics.
We offer our customers a comprehensive, high quality logistics 
service encompassing order taking, storage and stock 
management, order preparation, transport and distribution, 
invoicing and collection and customer services.
We reach a wide network of 300,000 points of sale in the 
European countries we service, including tobacconists, 
convenience stores, grocery stores, kiosks and bookshops, 
pharmacies, hospitals and petrol stations.
Logistics Performance Highlights
Our logistics business delivered a good performance in a 
challenging operating environment.
Distribution fees were £872 million and on a constant currency 
basis we grew our adjusted operating proﬁ t by 2 per cent to 
£176 million.
We delivered a good performance in tobacco logistics with 
cost saving initiatives and tobacco price increases, offsetting 
tobacco volume declines.
In non-tobacco logistics, we have continued to focus on 
maintaining our proﬁ tability while looking for opportunities to 
proﬁ tably grow our business. Our pharma business grew sales 
as a result of market share gains and the development of our 
direct distribution business. Our lottery business grew by 
adding new points of sale to the network and launching new 
games. Our wholesale business also performed well and we 
made further efﬁ ciency gains in our transport business.
Our focus remains on continuing to identify and develop 
growth opportunities while ensuring all aspects of our logistics 
operations are effectively and efﬁ ciently structured to drive 
success in a trading environment that we expect to remain 
challenging in 2013. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
34
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review
The analysis of our ﬁ nancial results below focuses on our adjusted 
measures, which reﬂ ect the way in which we manage the business, and 
provides a useful comparison of business performance. The basis of our 
non-GAAP or adjusted measures is explained in our accounting policies in 
our summary ﬁ nancial statements.
Percentage growth ﬁ gures for our adjusted results are given on a constant 
currency basis, where exchange translation (but not transactional) effects 
are removed by applying 2011 exchange rates to the 2012 results.
Revenue Performance
£ million 2012 2011
Tobacco revenue 21,161 21,277
Logistics revenue 8,368 8,911
Eliminations (955) (965)
Group revenue 28,574 29,223
Tobacco net revenue 7,005 6,913
Logistics distribution fees 872 932
Tobacco net revenue increased by 4 per cent, with volume growth in our 
key strategic brands, cigars and smokeless tobacco, together with price 
increases in many of our markets offsetting overall volume declines. 
In a difﬁ cult operating environment logistics distribution fees were 
1 per cent lower.
Group Earnings Performance
£ million unless 
otherwise indicated
Adjusted Reported
 2012 2011 2012 2011
Operating proﬁ t
Tobacco 2,989 2,924 1,447 2,577
Logistics 176 183 75 67
Eliminations (4) (4) (4) (4)
Group operating proﬁ t 3,161 3,103 1,518 2,640
Net ﬁ nance costs (535) (562) (437) (487)
Proﬁ t before taxation 2,626 2,541 1,081 2,153
Taxation (604) (617) (382) (337)
Proﬁ t for the year 2,022 1,924 699 1,816
Earnings per ordinary 
share (pence) 201.0 188.0 68.1 177.3
Adjusted operating proﬁ t grew by 4 per cent reﬂ ecting a good 
performance in the majority of EU markets given current market 
conditions and excellent results in our Rest of the World region, 
partially offset by reductions in the Americas. 
Tobacco adjusted operating proﬁ t was up 4 per cent and Logistics 
adjusted operating proﬁ t was up by 2 per cent.
After tax at an effective rate of 23.0 per cent (2011: 24.3 per cent), 
adjusted earnings per share grew by 8 per cent to 201.0 pence.
Reported earnings per share were 68.1 pence (2011: 177.3 pence) 
additionally reﬂ ecting fair value and exchange movements on ﬁ nancial 
instruments, amortisation of acquired intangibles, an impairment of 
Spanish goodwill of £1.2 billion and other adjusting items.
“ Our results beneﬁ ted 
from our focus on 
delivering quality 
growth while 
effectively managing 
costs and cash.”
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director  Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 35
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Results – Constant Currency Analysis
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2011
Foreign 
exchange
Constant 
currency 
growth 2012 Change
Constant 
currency 
change
Tobacco net revenue 6,913 (189) 281 7,005 1.3% 4.1%
Logistics distribution fees 932 (48) (12) 872 (6.4%) (1.3%)
Tobacco adjusted operating proﬁ t 2,924 (44) 109 2,989 2.2% 3.7%
Logistics adjusted operating proﬁ t 183 (10) 3 176 (3.8%) 1.6%
Adjusted operating proﬁ t 3,103 (54) 112 3,161 1.9% 3.6%
Adjusted net ﬁ nance costs (562) 31 (4) (535) 4.8% (0.7%)
Adjusted EPS 188.0p (1.6)p 14.6p 201.0p 6.9% 7.8%
Reconciliation of Adjusted Performance Measures
£ million unless otherwise indicated
Operating proﬁ t Net ﬁ nance costs 
Earnings per share 
(pence)
 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Reported 1,518 2,640 (437) (487) 68.1 177.3
Acquisition accounting adjustments (10) – – – (0.9) –
Amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles 1,552 402 – – 149.0 32.1
Fair value and exchange (gains)/losses 
on ﬁ nancial instruments providing 
commercial hedges – – (125) (85) (10.4) (6.1)
Post-employment beneﬁ ts net ﬁ nancing cost – – 27 10 1.8 0.6
Restructuring costs 101 61 – – 7.2 4.3
Tax provisions released – – – – (13.8) (20.2)
Adjusted 3,161 3,103 (535) (562) 201.0 188.0
Adjusting Items
Acquisition accounting adjustments includes the release of a 
small number of provisions established on the acquisition of 
Altadis that are no longer required. Amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles was £1,552 million (2011: £402 million) 
including a non-cash impairment charge in respect of Spanish 
intangibles. Net fair value and exchange gains on ﬁ nancial 
instruments providing commercial hedges included in reported 
net ﬁ nance costs were £125 million (2011: £85 million). 
The net ﬁ nancing cost of post-employment beneﬁ ts amounted 
to £27 million compared with £10 million in 2011. 
Restructuring costs of £101 million compared with £61 million 
in 2011 reﬂ ect a non-cash £43 million impairment of surplus 
properties and plant and machinery, and further costs in respect 
of US and European rationalisation including several factory 
closures during the year.
The release of tax provisions of £137 million (2011: £205 million) 
due to the resolution of certain prior year tax matters outside 
of changes in estimates in the normal course of business 
signiﬁ cantly reduced our reported tax charge in 2012.
Spanish Intangibles
At the end of the ﬁ nancial year we have written down part 
of the value of the intangible assets in our Spanish tobacco 
business, primarily reﬂ ecting further deterioration in Spanish 
economic indicators.
Spain has been particularly affected by the euro crisis and a 
collapse in Spanish property prices, with high unemployment 
levels, regional and central government deﬁ cits, a banking 
sector bail-out, and the introduction of austerity measures. 
Under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), 
goodwill and other intangible assets are attributed to the various 
cash generating units (CGUs) at the time of an acquisition. 
On the acquisition of Altadis in 2008 we allocated total acquired 
intangibles of £13.5 billion to CGUs, including £2.7 billion to our 
Spanish tobacco business. This allocation was made on the 
basis of the existing assets and our expectations for each CGU 
at that time. IFRS requires us to recognise a reduction in the 
value of intangible assets if our current expectations for an 
individual CGU do not fully support the value of intangible assets 
previously attributed to it. 
At the end of September 2011 the carrying value of our Spanish 
tobacco intangible assets was £2.8 billion. As we noted in our 
2011 ﬁ nancial statements, the carrying value was sensitive to 
movements in a number of assumptions we are required to 
make when testing that the value remains appropriate. 
During 2012, and particularly in the second half of the ﬁ nancial 
year, the Spanish economy has deteriorated further, and we 
believe the timing of a recovery of the economy has receded 
while the current level of uncertainty has increased. In line with  Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
36
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review continued
these developments we have updated our assumptions to 
reﬂ ect current market data for the purposes of impairment 
testing, and have consequently increased the discount rate 
applied to Spain and reduced the long-term growth rate. 
The effect of the macro-economic conditions and the current 
downward revision of longer term economic assumptions have 
together resulted in an impairment of £1.2 billion of the goodwill 
in our Spanish business.
The impairment charge is a non-cash item and has been 
excluded from our adjusted results in line with our existing 
policy on non-GAAP measures. 
Taken as a whole, the Altadis acquisition has enhanced the 
Group’s performance and generated returns in line with our 
expectations, strengthening our geographic spread and our 
brand and product portfolios, as well as generating signiﬁ cant 
cost synergies.
Net Finance Costs
£ million 2012 2011
Net ﬁ nance costs 437 487
Net fair value and exchange gains 
on ﬁ nancial instruments providing 
commercial hedges 125 85
Post-employment beneﬁ ts net 
ﬁ nancing cost (27) (10)
Adjusted net ﬁ nance costs 535 562
Adjusted net ﬁ nance costs were down from £562 million to 
£535 million despite the impact of a full year’s share buyback 
and higher dividend payments. Reported net ﬁ nance costs were 
£437 million (2011: £487 million). Our all in cost of debt was 
improved at 5.5 per cent (2011: 5.7 per cent) and our interest 
cover was 5.9 times (2011: 5.5 times).
Cash Flows and Financing
Our reported net debt was £9.0 billion, down from £9.4 billion at 
30 September 2011 due to fair value and exchange movements.
Eliminating accrued interest, the fair value of derivatives 
providing commercial cash ﬂ ow hedges and ﬁ nance lease 
liabilities, our adjusted net debt was £8.8 billion (2011: 
£8.8 billion). 
Cash conversion was 71 per cent, impacted by £0.5 billion 
working capital movements, in part reﬂ ecting the unwinding 
of a timing difference in our Italian logistics business and our 
investment in our sales growth agenda. These include extending 
our leaf stock duration and new product launches. 
During the year we increased returns to our shareholders to 
£1.5 billion (2011: £1.1 billion), comprising £0.5 billion of 
share buybacks (2011: £0.2 billion) and dividend payments 
of £1.0 billion (2011: £0.9 billion).
The denomination of our closing adjusted net debt was 
45 per cent euro, 10 per cent US dollar and 45 per cent sterling. 
As at 30 September 2012 we had committed ﬁ nancing facilities 
in place of around £12.5 billion. Some 25 per cent was bank 
facilities with the balance raised through capital markets. 
We remain fully compliant with all our banking covenants and 
remain committed to retaining our investment grade ratings.
Share Buyback Programme and Dividends
We continued our share buyback programme and in the year we 
spent just over £0.5 billion, acquiring 21.9 million shares which 
are held as treasury shares. The average price paid was £24.02. 
At 30 September 2012, we held 77.8 million shares representing 
7.3 per cent of our issued share capital. We intend to continue 
the buyback programme at around £500 million per annum.
The Board has declared a ﬁ nal dividend of 73.9 pence 
per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 
105.6 pence, an increase of 11 per cent over 2011, ahead 
of the growth in adjusted earnings per share and in line with 
our dividend policy.
Liquidity and Going Concern
The Group’s policy is to ensure that we always have sufﬁ cient 
funding and committed bank facilities in place to meet 
foreseeable peak borrowing requirements.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources 
for the future, the Board has reviewed the Group’s committed 
funding and liquidity positions, its ability to generate cash from 
trading activities and its ability to meet the need to raise external 
funding in the future. The Board has also reviewed our future 
plans, our strategy and the principal risks we face (as described 
on pages 52 to 55).
In performing its review the Board acknowledged the current 
level of uncertainty in the ﬁ nancial markets and considered 
various sensitivity analyses when assessing the forecast funding 
and headroom requirements of the Group in the context of the 
maturity proﬁ le of the Group’s facilities set out in note 19 to the 
accounts. The Group has approximately £1.4 billion of bonds 
maturing in October and November 2013 and a combination 
of cash generated from operations as well as new ﬁ nancing 
will be used to replace these. The Group plans its ﬁ nancing in 
a structured and proactive manner and remains conﬁ dent that 
sources of ﬁ nancing will be available. 
Based on its review, the Board is of the opinion that the Group 
as a whole and Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have adequate 
resources to meet their operational needs for the foreseeable 
future and conclude that it is appropriate to prepare the ﬁ nancial 
statements on a going concern basis. Sustainability and Responsibility: 
What corporate responsibility 
means to us
Responsibility is central to our 
sustainable growth strategy – 
how we behave today impacts 
our business tomorrow. 
Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our 
tobacco products every day. We make, market and sell our 
brands and products in a way that is ﬁ nancially, socially and 
environmentally responsible. We also actively support our 
consumers and proactively tackle important issues such as 
the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products. 
We respect the natural resources we use, whether it’s tobacco 
leaves, wood for paper and packaging or water to grow and 
then process our tobacco. Our manufacturing processes use 
energy and water and create waste, and we focus on reducing 
our environmental impact.
The welfare of our people is very important to us. 
We’ve created a rewarding work place for our 37,000 
employees with our values guiding the way they work with 
each other, our business partners and other stakeholders.
We operate on an international scale and make many positive 
contributions to society, not just in terms of wealth creation 
and employment, but by being an active member of the 
communities of which we are part.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Strategic Review Governance Financials 37
Performance Risk
Corporate Responsibility Review
Find out more online
You will ﬁ nd several QR codes throughout the CR section 
of this report.
Download a QR code scanning app to your smartphone 
and scan the code to access extra content online at 
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
38
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Our global operations and 
the contribution we make
Product 
manufacture
Leaf buying, processing 
and planning
47
factories
44
countries where 
we source tobacco 
for our 
products
37,000 
employees
In countries around the globe; 
indirectly the tobacco industry 
sustains tens of millions of 
jobs, most of them in the 
developing world
£7.9 billion
Paid to shareholders
Through dividends and share 
buybacks since 1996, beneﬁ ting 
millions of pensions and other 
investments worldwide which in turn 
supports international economies
£20 billion
Returned to governments 
Every year through duty, excise 
and company taxation
US$300 million
Investment to ﬁ ght illicit trade
Through a 20 year partnership 
agreement we initiated in 2010 
with the European Commission 
and EU member states
Supporting Stakeholders and the Communities we Operate in Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 39
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
160
markets where 
we sell our 
products
Storage and 
distribution 
Sales, marketing and 
brand management 
Delighting and satisfying 
our consumers
Supporting 
consumers
We stand up for our consumers by 
ﬁ ghting disproportionate regulation 
and championing their right to 
enjoy tobacco products
Tackling 
child labour 
We actively oppose child labour 
and are a board member of the 
Eliminating Child Labour in 
Tobacco Foundation
Respecting natural 
resources 
We’ve reduced CO
2
 emissions 
by 4 per cent and energy 
consumption by 5 per cent Sustainability and Responsibility
Responsibility and our Strategy: 
What’s Important and Why?
Our most important responsibility issues are those which have 
the potential to impact our business and are of the greatest 
interest to our stakeholders. These issues are highlighted in the 
table below. To ﬁ nd out more about how we’re managing risks 
associated with these issues see pages 52 to 55 of this report.
Focus Area Important Issues
Responsible with Products Tobacco and Health
Regulatory Engagement
Anti-Illicit Trade
Rewarding Workplace Our People – Our Values 
Workplace Health and Safety
Respecting Natural 
Resources
Climate Change 
Environmental Performance
Reinvesting in Society Responsible Sourcing 
Reporting on our Performance
Every year we use our annual report to update you on 
the progress we’re making in managing our important 
responsibility issues. 
More detailed information on other responsibility issues 
is available in the Responsibility section of our corporate 
website www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr
Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
40
Performance
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CR Framework
By assessing what’s important for us to 
continue to successfully develop our 
business and by understanding the 
external expectations of our stakeholders, 
we’ve carefully identiﬁ ed four long-term 
goals and focus areas which are deﬁ ned 
in our CR Framework. 
We use these to align our business 
activities and stakeholder issues and set 
new objectives each year to further drive 
responsible performance.
To support 
legitimate 
markets and 
consumers
To create a 
great 
workplace
To reduce our 
environmental 
impact
To make 
positive societal 
contributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Goals
Focus Areas
Our Values
         Responsible with products
          Rewarding workplace
       Reinvesting in society
      Respecting natural resources
Code of Conduct Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance 41
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financials
2012 Performance Highlights 
We have delivered a number of CR performance highlights this 
year driven by the responsible behaviour and contribution of 
our people.
Responsible with Products
 – Our intelligence assisted law enforcement agencies to 
make the largest ever seizure of Chinese counterfeit 
cigarettes in Europe.
 – Investment in our ﬂ agship research and development facility 
at Fleury-les-Aubrais in France.
Rewarding Workplace
 – We delivered over 80 ‘Our People’ workshops globally to 
bring our values to life and build our people capabilities.
 – We have further reduced the number of lost time accidents 
and are pleased that 15 factories have recorded zero LTAs 
for more than 12 months.
Respecting Natural Resources
 – We reduced energy use by 5 per cent and exceeded 
targeted energy savings of £1.5 million.
 – We increased our score in the Carbon Disclosure Project to 
75 per cent and reduced carbon emissions by 4 per cent.
Reinvesting in Society 
 – We engaged with key leaf suppliers on wood sustainability 
and improved our score by 8 per cent for our Social 
Responsibility in Tobacco Production Programme.
 – We conducted an independent review of our direct and 
indirect business impacts in Morocco which highlighted 
a number of positive contributions and identiﬁ ed areas 
for improvement.
2013 Priorities
Our top level priorities for 2013 are below with our detailed 
objectives for 2013 on our website.
Responsible with Products
 – Increase market engagement on responsible sales issues 
with the roll-out of an enhanced anti-illicit trade framework 
and toolbox.
 – Continue to support our consumers by driving forward 
consumer relevant quality and simplifying our complaint 
management processes.
Rewarding Workplace
 – Further reduce accidents towards zero lost time accidents 
with continued management commitment and employee 
engagement through initiatives such as the ‘Safety Pin’ 
quiz competition.
 – Embed our new responsibility strategy focused on engaging 
our people and enabling creativity around our values.
Respecting Natural Resources
 – Promote an approach of reduce, re-use and recycle with a 
speciﬁ c focus on factory excellence based on best practice 
manufacturing techniques.
 – Target energy reductions by establishing further energy 
saving contracts.
Reinvesting in Society
 – Strengthen our community involvement through the 
development of key partnerships and by supporting 
employee activities.
 – Progress our leaf sustainability strategy with an action plan 
for wood self sufﬁ ciency in Africa and targets for further 
improvement in supplier performance.
External Recognition of our 
Progress
 – We maintained a ‘Gold’ status in the 2012 Business in 
The Community Corporate Responsibility Index
 – We achieved our highest ever score of 76 per cent in the 
SAM assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Key data reported in the annual report and accounts for 
the year to 30 September 2012 has been independently 
assured under the limited assurance requirements of the 
ISAE3000 standard by PwC. They have also been engaged 
to look at our alignment with AA1000AS (2008) principles 
of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness. Some of 
the selected data covered by this assurance is clearly 
highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of 
the annual report and all of the selected data is included 
in the Corporate Responsibility section of the website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr where their limited 
assurance statement can be found. PwC have provided 
Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10. 
Earlier data was assured by another provider. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
42
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Corporate Responsibility Performance 2012
Responsible with Products
Overview
Every day millions of people choose to enjoy our tobacco 
products. We’re focused on manufacturing, marketing and 
selling our products in a way that is ﬁ nancially, socially and 
environmentally responsible. We stand up for our consumers 
by ﬁ ghting unreasonable regulation and championing our 
consumers’ right to enjoy smoking.
We’re protecting the legitimate tobacco market which helps 
to ensure that tobacco products are sold only to adults, 
and criminals do not proﬁ t through illicit trade.
Tobacco and Health
We recognise that stakeholders have concerns over 
the potential health risks associated with tobacco-use. 
Our scientists monitor and review tobacco and health 
developments and make the results of our scientiﬁ c 
research available to the public via our science website 
www.imperialtobaccoscience.com. 
During 2012 we invested in our ﬂ agship research and 
development facility at Fleury-les-Aubrais in France. We have 
increased the number of accredited methods and laboratory 
techniques so we can better respond to product regulation 
developments. Further details can be found on our website.
Regulatory Engagement 
We proactively engage with regulators, governments and other 
stakeholders on a range of tobacco issues. We support 
balanced, proportionate regulation and continue to oppose 
regulation that undermines consumer and commercial freedoms 
such as attempts to ban smoking in private spaces, product 
display restrictions and further encroachment on our packaging.
Much of our engagement this year has been focused on the 
plain packaging of tobacco products, which we strongly 
oppose. Plain packaging represents an unwarranted attack 
on our valuable trademarks and intellectual property rights. 
Making all tobacco products available in the same, easy-to-copy 
plain packaging will also signiﬁ cantly increase counterfeiting, 
undermining the joint anti-illicit trade initiatives we work on with 
police and customs authorities worldwide. 
The plain packaging of tobacco products will be introduced in 
Australia on 1 December 2012. Australia is the only country in 
the world to implement plain packaging laws. A legal challenge 
against the legislation by Imperial Tobacco and other tobacco 
companies was rejected by the High Court of Australia. 
Elsewhere, government consultations on plain packaging are 
ongoing in the UK and New Zealand and we continue to actively 
participate in the debate.
In Europe the key driver of regulation is the European 
Commission, through the European Union Tobacco 
Products Directive (EUTPD) which is currently being revised. 
We’ve continued to engage with relevant ministries both within 
individual EU Member States and within the EU Commission 
and are seeking to ensure that any changes to the EUTPD 
by the Commission are based on factual, scientiﬁ c and 
robust evidence.
Anti-illicit Trade
Through our anti-illicit trade activities we work hard to stop the 
smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products. By doing 
so we protect the legal duty paid tobacco market from 
unregulated product.
We have invested US$300 million to ﬁ ght illicit trade through a 
20 year partnership agreement with the European Commission 
and EU member states.
During 2012, as a result of investigations undertaken by 
Imperial, the largest single EU seizure of Chinese counterfeit 
cigarettes was made. We passed intelligence to the European 
Anti-Fraud Ofﬁ ce (OLAF) in Brussels who worked with the 
authorities to identify several suspect containers. This led to 
further raids, seizing 160 million counterfeit cigarettes. 
We have a number of co-operation agreements or Memoranda 
of Understanding (MoUs) in place to help us formalise the way 
we share information with customs authorities. We have a total 
of 21 MoUs, including newly signed agreements with France, 
Luxembourg and Kosovo.
Our tracking and tracing systems follow the movement of bulk 
quantities of genuine product through the supply chain. If there’s 
a seizure of genuine smuggled tobacco products, we can assist 
law enforcement ofﬁ cials to determine where the seized tobacco 
products came from and where they were supposed to go.
At an industry level we’re continuing to develop new and 
innovative tracking and tracing systems.
The Digital Coding & Tracking Association founded by Imperial 
Tobacco, British American Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Philip 
Morris International develops and promotes tracking and tracing 
standards. This includes a supply chain control system known 
as Codentify which uses advanced digital coding technology 
printed directly onto product packaging, replacing easy-to-copy 
paper-based tax stamps.
The association is working with INTERPOL to make Codentify 
accessible via a new INTERPOL Global Register (IGR) to combat 
illicit trade.  Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 43
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Responsible with Products: 
Performance Indicators
1
3
%
Percentage increase in 
Global Quality index
34
Number of countries 
for which cigarette 
ingredients are published 
on Imperial T obacco’s 
corporate site 
(2011: 34)
Case Studies
Case studies of our progress are on our website.
– Insights from the Head of Science and Stewardship
– Engaging with Regulators – The Food and Drug 
Administration
– Supporting our consumers with smoking shelters
– A journey of continuous improvement – Lao
Rewarding Workplace
Overview
Our goal is to create an inspiring work environment for our 
employees, so that they can do their best work. We support 
their career aspirations and build their capabilities so that their 
talents and skills ﬂ ourish. We take the time to listen to our 
people, reward them fairly and respect them as individuals.
Values, Capabilities, Engagement
Values, capabilities and engagement are integral to the 
development of our people. 
Our capability framework is aligned with our values and our 
strategy, and includes the behaviours, skills and knowledge 
required for our people to achieve our sales growth ambitions.
Our values provide us with a common bond, guiding the way we 
do business and inﬂ uencing the way we behave. During 2012 
we launched new values (see page 13) across our global 
operations. This has included running 80 ‘Our People’ 
workshops for over 1,000 managers around the world between 
January and April 2012 that brought the values to life and 
focused on further building our capabilities to deliver our sales 
growth strategy. 
In addition, our values have been embedded into our annual 
performance and development reviews, meaning every member 
of the management team will be measured on how they are 
delivering their objectives in line with our values. 
We’re continuing to drive engagement across our business 
and this year are conducting a much wider survey to gather 
the views of a much wider employee population which is taking 
place in November 2012. This builds on the engagement 
actions we have progressed since our management 
engagement survey towards the end of 2010.
The ﬁ rst meeting of the Imperial Tobacco European Employee 
Works Council (ITEEWC) was held in December 2011. This is 
a forum that combined our European Forum (EEF) and the 
Comite d’Enterprise European du Groupe Altadis to discuss 
transnational issues affecting employees in Europe.
Senior executives and employee representatives came together 
to share information on the Company’s performance and future 
plans and discuss issues affecting our European employees. 
The next meeting is being held in December 2012.
Workplace Health & Safety
We provide a safe, well-equipped, working environment for our 
people and actively encourage them to be part of our efforts to 
make Imperial Tobacco a great place to work.
Our annual ‘Safety Pin’ quiz competition, which tests 
manufacturing employees on their safety, quality, 
environmental and product knowledge, has been a real 
success story. This year more than 2,000 manufacturing 
employees at 43 sites worldwide took part and further details 
can be found on our website.
In addition, an enhanced behavioural safety training initiative is 
being rolled-out across our factories in the next 12 months to 
build on previous successful schemes around health and safety 
in the workplace.
1 2012 data has been assured by PwC. See website for further 
information. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
44
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Rewarding Workplace: 
Performance Indicators
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
We have invested in new machinery and factory infrastructure 
across the business to achieve greater efﬁ ciency as well as 
health and safety beneﬁ ts.
A further nine facilities have achieved OHSAS 18001 certiﬁ cation 
recognising their commitment to occupational health and safety, 
including the Skopje factory in Macedonia which extended the 
scope to include ﬁ eld sales operations.
We have continued our efforts to reduce the number of 
Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) – incidents that lead to employee 
absences and major injuries, and are pleased that 15 factories 
have recorded zero LTAs for more than 12 months.
Employment Policies
We apply universally accepted standards for human rights to 
ensure our people are treated with fairness, dignity and respect. 
This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and 
giving fair consideration to applications for employment, 
career development and promotion, without having regard 
to an employee’s gender, race, religion, age or disability.
These policies also cover the continuation of employment and 
appropriate training for employees who become disabled during 
their employment. Our policies ensure that candidates are 
chosen on merit which involves the consideration of women 
for all positions within the organisation.
To ensure employees can share in our success we offer 
competitive pay and beneﬁ ts packages linked, wherever 
possible, to performance. Employees are encouraged to build 
a stake in the Company through ownership of the Company’s 
shares, with a number of employee share plans offered during 
the year.
Case Studies
Case studies of our progress are on our website.
– Safety Pin quiz competition
– Apprentice scheme – UK
– Supporting employee health in Cote D’Ivoire
– Human Rights and Social Assessments
– Award from German Health Ministry
59
%
Engagement score
across management
team
Rewarding Workplace: Lost time accidents 
and sickness (per 200,000 hours)
 Sickness absence (days sickness/average number working days) 
 incl. non-work-related and work-related absence. 
 Lost time accident frequency rate.
1
09
Baseline
3.73
1.57
2.97
1.30
2.76
1.08
10 11
1 2011 lost time frequency rate is assured by PwC – see website for 
more information. We report health and safety data 12 months in 
arrears to allow for data collection and verification. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 45
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Respecting Natural Resources
Overview
Our manufacturing processes use energy and water and create 
waste and we’re working to achieve our goal of reducing our 
environmental impact. 
Climate Change
Our goal is to reduce energy usage by 20 per cent by 2020. 
Our climate change strategy aims to reduce our impact through 
energy conservation, lower carbon technology, renewable 
energy and, where applicable, carbon offsetting.
Energy saving initiatives at our factories in Logroño, Spain and 
Radom, Poland, have both exceeded the target savings of 
£1.5 million. We plan to introduce similar initiatives at our larger 
factories worldwide in a phased eight-year programme and 
expect them to deliver substantial savings in energy costs. 
Further details on our climate change risks and opportunities 
can be found on our website. 
Carbon Disclosure Project
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent 
not-for-proﬁ t organisation that encourages private and public 
sector organisations to measure and reduce emissions 
and climate change impacts. As part of our wider carbon 
management strategy, we have responded to the CDP 
annual Information Request for a number of years. In 2012, 
we increased our score to 75 per cent.
We continue to engage with our strategic suppliers to identify 
opportunities for shared savings and to reduce the impact of 
climate change. We continued to improve supplier participation 
in the CDP Supply Chain initiative, including participation of 
our logistics business – Logista. Further details are available 
at www.cdproject.net. 
Environmental Performance
We continue to reduce waste to landﬁ ll and water consumption 
compared with our 2009 baseline. The unveriﬁ ed data for 2012 
indicates that this trend is continuing.
71 per cent of our factories have achieved ISO 14001 
accreditation of their environmental management standards. 
Case Studies
Case studies of our progress are on our website.
– Environmental management in Taiwan
– Producing renewable energy
– Fuel-efﬁ cient ‘rocket barns’
– Protecting Morocco’s beaches Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials
46
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Respecting Natural Resources: Performance Indicators
1
Corporate Responsibility Review continued
Energy consumption 
(KWh/£ million) 
09
Baseline
150,419
146,814
142,268
10 11
Absolute CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions from 
manufacturing 
process (Tonnes) 
09
Baseline
307,132
310,687
307,973
10 11
Waste (Tonnes/£ million)
09
Baseline
8.25
7.97
7.47
10 11
CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions from 
manufacturing process 
(Tonnes/£ million) 
09
Baseline
46.6
45.7
44.5
10 11
Waste to landﬁll 
(Tonnes/£ million)
09
Baseline
2.08
1.87
1.69
10 11
Water consumption – 
mains and abstracted 
(m
3
/£ million)
09
Baseline
321
300
290
10 11
1 Current FY data has been assured by PwC; please see the website for more information.
 Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and veriﬁ cation.
 Our cigar and cigarette manufacturing sites and main ofﬁ ces measure energy by revenue. For completeness we have restated our baseline to 2009 
to incorporate this unit. Environmental data includes all manufacturing sites over which we have operational control.
 Ozone depleting substances and our cigar operations have been included in our reporting scope. Overview Risk Strategic Review Governance Financials 47
Performance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Reinvesting in Society
Overview
We are active members of many different communities around 
the world and have built long-standing relationships with 
many stakeholders. 
Responsible Sourcing 
Our main supplier engagement and assessment programmes 
are the Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production (SRiTP) for 
tobacco suppliers and the Supplier Qualiﬁ cation Programme 
for the supply of non-tobacco materials. 
Leaf Partnership
The majority of the tobacco we use is from the leading 
international leaf supply companies – only a small amount is 
purchased directly from growers. All of our leaf suppliers are 
required to participate in the SRiTP programme. 
Our enhancements to the programme, including minimum 
performance standards, helped focus our supplier engagement 
during 2012. The overall SRiTP percentage increased to 
68 per cent (63 per cent: 2010), indicating that a good degree 
of risk management is in place. 
We continue to work with and seek to improve low scoring 
suppliers, however if a supplier consistently fails to meet 
our minimum standards we consider ending our business 
relationship with them.
We also continued to focus on the challenge of sustainable 
wood supply for tobacco curing, which includes issues such 
as biodiversity and climate change. We have engaged with 
our suppliers, increased our support through a new agronomy 
team and are targeting improvements in performance with 
our suppliers in this area. 
We continue to support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco 
(ECLT) Foundation, of which we are a board member. The ECLT 
works with communities in tobacco growing regions to address 
the underlying causes of child labour.
Non-tobacco Materials 
Our non-tobacco material suppliers comply with our 
Supplier Qualiﬁ cation programme, which includes social and 
environmental criteria. We conduct audits to ensure compliance 
against our own standards as well as ISO 9001 certiﬁ cation for 
quality and ISO 14001 for environmental impact.
Our supply relationships also support our anti-illicit trade 
initiatives and enable them to comply with the high standards 
set out in our Code of Conduct.
Partnership Investment 
We allocated £3 million to partnership investment in 2012. 
In addition to this central investment, there were a number 
of ﬁ nancial contributions at a local level as well as employee 
volunteering and management time to maximise the beneﬁ ts 
from our involvement.
This year, we also commissioned an independent review of our 
direct and indirect business impacts in Morocco. The impact 
assessment highlighted a range of positive societal and 
economic beneﬁ ts from our operations and informed the local 
approach by identifying a number of areas where our positive 
impacts can be enhanced. 
During 2012 many of our employees also gave their time to 
contribute to local community projects in a number of markets. 
More information, including case studies, is available on 
our website.
Stakeholder Panel
Representatives from our main stakeholder groups, including 
consumers, investors, suppliers, employees and the wider 
community, met with us again in 2012 through our Stakeholder 
Panel. They shared their views on the business and their 
valuable input continues to help shape our approach to 
Corporate Responsibility. Their feedback as well as our 
response can be found on our website.
Case Studies
Case studies of our progress are on our website.
 – Supporting sustainable development in West Africa
 – Protection of forests in Malawi
 – The Altadis Foundation
Reinvesting in Society: 
Performance Indicator
Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production 
(SRiTP) progress – total weighted mean
1
 (%)
09
60
63
68
10 11
1  99 per cent of tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme 
in 2011. The one non-responding supplier has been included into the 
programme for 2012.
 FY11 data has been assured by PwC. See our website for more 
information. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials
48
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Effectively Managing the Risks We Face
Risk Management: 
How it works at Imperial Tobacco
In this section we outline the risks we face across 
our business and our approach to mitigating and 
managing them.
Our approach
Our business and the risks we face are constantly changing 
and we regularly review our policies and risk management 
procedures to ensure they are up-to-date and appropriately 
protect our stakeholders. 
During the year, and in consultation with the Board and Audit 
Committee, we continued to strengthen our risk management 
processes and procedures. We have now brought these 
together into a new Corporate Assurance Department with 
responsibility for further driving risk management initiatives 
throughout the organisation. Our Director of Corporate 
Assurance reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the 
Operating Executive (OPEX) on matters of risk management.
This approach enables us to clearly focus on the key risks 
facing our business, particularly where these change as a result 
of our strategy and/or changes to both the macro-economic 
and tobacco operating environments.
In past years the Risk Coordination Committee (RCC) 
played an important role in developing the Group risk 
management framework and overall assessment of key risks. 
Having reached this point, this role has now been assumed 
by the OPEX, supported by other management meetings 
across the Group and facilitated by the new Corporate 
Assurance Department.
We have reviewed the material risks facing our business to 
ensure a consistent top down approach in how we identify, 
assess and prioritise material risks, as well as assessing our 
existing measures to manage and mitigate those risks. 
This top down approach is complemented by an annual 
bottom up review by local management of principal areas of 
risk and uncertainty by each area of the business. This process 
has driven the production of our Risk Register. As well as 
strategic, operational, ﬁ nancial and legal risks our Risk Register 
covers a number of emerging, environmental, community and 
ethical risks.
Risk Management
  For more detail on our principal risks 
see pages 52 to 55
Board
Oversight of risk management framework and review of 
its effectiveness
Senior/local management
Identify and manage the key risks across our markets, factories, 
regions and functions and develop mitigating actions at a local level
Audit Committee
Ongoing review of the risks and controls in place to mitigate 
these risks
Operating Executive
Operational ownership of the risks and mitigating activities
Corporate Assurance Department
Works with our business to consolidate identiﬁ ed risks across our 
markets, factories, regions and functions into our Group Risk Register
Group Risk Register
Managed and maintained by our Corporate Assurance Department to 
assist in reﬂ ecting and assessing the risk landscape and to identify 
mitigating activities
Assess
      
Rank            Mitigate
Identify
Monitor
  Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials 49
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risk and the Board 
The Directors are ultimately responsible for overseeing our 
risk management system and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
This system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and the Group’s 
risk management system is subject to regular review to ensure 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code) and the Turnbull Guidance (2005) on internal control 
and risk management. 
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has 
completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control and risk management and conﬁ rms that an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s signiﬁ cant risks has operated throughout the year 
and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and 
Accounts in accordance with the requirements of the Code and 
the Turnbull Guidance. 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out 
at the end of this section on pages 52 to 55.
Risk and the Operating Executive 
The OPEX considers the careful and appropriate management 
of risk as a key management role and has ultimate operational 
responsibility for the Group’s system of risk management. 
The OPEX reviews the Group’s signiﬁ cant risks and 
subsequently reports to the Board on material changes 
and the associated mitigating actions.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, an annual review of 
the effectiveness of the risk management system was carried 
out by the OPEX in September 2012.
Risk and Group-Wide Management
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is a key element 
of all our business activities, and is undertaken using a practical 
and ﬂ exible framework which provides a consistent and 
sustained approach to risk evaluation. Business risks, which 
may be strategic, operational, ﬁ nancial or environmental, or 
concern the Group’s reputation, are understood and visible. 
The business context determines in each situation the level of 
acceptable risk and controls. The Group continues to seek 
improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice 
throughout the organisation.
Key features of the Group’s system of risk management are:
 – Group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values, 
including our Code of Conduct; 
 – clear business objectives and business principles;
 – Group policies and standards;
 – a continuing process for the identiﬁ cation and evaluation of 
signiﬁ cant risks to the achievement of business objectives; 
 – management processes in place to mitigate signiﬁ cant risks 
to an acceptable level; 
 – ongoing monitoring of signiﬁ cant risks and internal and 
external environmental factors that may change the Group’s 
risk proﬁ le; 
 – an annual Risk Assessment Summary process, which 
combines a top down view of strategic risks with a bottom-
up risk assessment exercise requiring individual markets, 
factories, regions and functions across the Group to identify 
major areas of business risk, including any speciﬁ c local risks 
and demonstrate how these are mitigated and managed by 
controls at the local (and where appropriate, Group) level. 
This exercise forms the basis for the Directors’ annual review 
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control; and 
 – a regular review of both the type and amount of external 
insurance purchased by the Group after consideration of 
the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and 
magnitude of the risks involved.
Risk and Local Management
By re-enforcing the message that responsibility for risk 
management sits at the local operational level, it becomes 
further embedded in our day-to-day operations and becomes 
more effective.
This approach requires each relevant business unit to:
 – identify those key risks to the business that have, or may 
result in, losses or adverse results and to reﬂ ect any changes 
in the risk position;
 – analyse those risks and estimate the probability, impact and 
potential timescales should the risks arise;
 – conﬁ rm and record the actions, mitigating controls or other 
business processes that are used to manage the risks, 
so that they are either eliminated entirely or reduced to 
an acceptable level; and
 – track and report progress of managing these risks on an 
ongoing basis. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials
50
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risk Management continued
Governance, Assurance and Compliance
During the year we established a Corporate Assurance 
Department to oversee the Group’s risk management process 
replacing Group Compliance and to encompass our Group 
Internal Audit team (see below). 
As a result we have streamlined the way in which risk 
management and assurance activities are aligned to our 
governance (and compliance) framework by creating three areas 
of responsibility: governance, assurance and compliance. 
These three areas of our business are working to ensure the 
effective delivery of the Group’s governance framework:
 – our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and 
developing the Group’s framework of governance, including 
our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up 
(whistle-blowing) process; 
 – our Director of Corporate Assurance provides assurance 
that the controls to mitigate risks to an acceptable level are 
operating as they should, through both the risk management 
processes and internal audit work; and
 – our Chief Legal and Compliance Ofﬁ cer acts to ensure that 
the Group meets its legal obligations and follows our Code 
of Conduct and policies. 
Our Governance Framework 
Responsible 
party: 
Chief Legal & 
Compliance Ofﬁ cer
Area of responsibility: 
Compliance with policies 
and legislation
Responsible 
party: 
Director of 
Corporate Assurance
Area of responsibility: 
Risk Management processes 
and independent assurance
Responsible 
party: 
Company Secretary
Area of responsibility: 
Overall Governance
Governance
Framework
Compliance
Governance
Assurance
Code of Conduct & Group Policies
All employees are expected to comply with our Code of 
Conduct and Group policies.
Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards of responsible 
behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow and we 
continue to update our senior management team through a 
series of face-to-face workshops. This is supplemented by a 
supporting e-learning system, which we have used to focus on 
our priority risk topics, including anti-illicit trade, anti-bribery and 
corruption, and competition law compliance.
Our Code of Conduct is aligned with our long established and 
embedded policies that cover responsible operation of the 
Group in terms of commercial, employment, manufacturing 
and trading practices and provides guidance for business 
integrity, responsible commercial practice, trust, respect 
and responsibility.
Speaking Up (whistle-blowing) 
The Company Secretary, Director of Corporate Assurance and 
the Chief Legal & Compliance Ofﬁ cer work together to resolve 
any governance issues that are raised, including through our 
Speaking Up (whistle-blowing) process. Any allegations of 
misconduct, fraud and irregularity are thoroughly investigated 
and implications for our control environment are considered.
Our people have the opportunity to make conﬁ dential 
disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing. 
During the year we made our employees aware of the improved 
communication channels we have put in place, via an external 
supplier, for them to make any conﬁ dential disclosures, through 
our Speaking Up policy, which has been translated into 37 
languages. A Speaking Up committee, comprising the Company 
Secretary, the HR Director (or a suitable HR representative – 
depending on area) and the Director of Corporate Assurance, 
reviews any reported incidents and decides on the appropriate 
method and level of investigation. The Audit Committee is 
notiﬁ ed of any material disclosures made and receives reports 
on the results of investigations and actions taken. The Audit 
Committee also has the power to request further information, 
conduct its own enquiries or order additional action as it sees ﬁ t. 
Internal Control
The Turnbull Guidance recommends internal control practices 
for UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the 
application of the UK Corporate Governance Code’s principles 
and compliance with the Code’s provisions with regard to 
internal control.
The Group’s systems of internal control are designed and 
operated to support the identiﬁ cation, evaluation and 
management of risks affecting the Group. These include 
controls in relation to the ﬁ nancial reporting process and the 
preparation of consolidated accounts, but extend across all 
areas of operations. They are subject to continuous review as 
circumstances change and new risks emerge. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials 51
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We gain assurance over compliance with systems of internal 
control and on their effectiveness by continuing to develop our: 
 – regular management reviews including reviews of key 
ﬁ nancial controls and reviews by Group Internal Audit; 
 – testing of certain aspects of the internal ﬁ nancial control 
systems by the external Auditors during the course of their 
statutory examinations; and 
 – regular reports to the Audit Committee by the external 
Auditors.
We have refocused our Group Internal Audit team to ensure a 
greater focus on key business risks and controls across the 
most material parts of the business. During the year we have 
created a comprehensive audit universe of business entities, 
processes, projects and themes, which we have ranked in terms 
of their relative risk to the Group. Going forward internal audits 
will be carried out to ensure suitable coverage is obtained over 
an acceptable period. 
Key features of the systems of internal control in the Group are:
 – a clear tone from the top from the Board and senior 
management, supported by our Code of Conduct and 
our values;
 – risk management processes, as described in this section; 
 – written policies and procedures within our businesses, 
which are detailed in policy manuals; 
 – clearly deﬁ ned lines of accountability and delegation of 
authority – at all levels throughout the Group; 
 – minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate 
infrastructure, controls, systems and people throughout 
the businesses; 
 – business continuity planning, including preventative and 
contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the 
purchase of insurance; 
 – ﬁ nancial controls;
 – key policies and standards employed in managing operating 
risk involve segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, 
monitoring, ﬁ nancial and managerial review and 
comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved 
standards and budgets; 
 – a treasury operating framework which establishes policies 
and manages liquidity and ﬁ nancial risks, including foreign 
exchange, interest rate and counterparty exposures, and 
incorporates central and regional treasury committees that 
monitor these activities and compliance with the policies. 
Additionally, well deﬁ ned procedures for appraisal, approval, 
control and review of capital and strategic expenditure, 
including acquisitions are reviewed regularly by the Audit 
Committee on behalf of the Board; 
 – a Group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms 
the basis of tax governance across the business and is 
managed by the Group Tax department, which monitors tax 
risk and implements strategies and procedures to control it; 
 – Group Internal Audit reviews; and
 – a year end certiﬁ cation process, under which management 
conﬁ rms that risk mitigation controls have operated 
effectively throughout the year and that entities have 
complied with our policies, including the Code of Conduct 
and anti-bribery requirements, as well as fraud prevention 
processes. As a separate exercise, all our senior managers 
are also required to certify that there have been no related 
party transactions within their areas of control.
Group Finance 
Our Group Finance department plays a key role in the 
governance process by setting ﬁ nancial policies and standards. 
It also manages our ﬁ nancial reporting processes to ensure the 
timely and accurate provision of information which enables our 
Board to discharge its responsibilities, including the production 
of our Half Yearly and Annual Accounts. Group Finance is 
supported by a network of ﬁ nance managers throughout the 
Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide 
information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal 
best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
Monitoring of our ﬁ nancial position is based on our strategic and 
operational plans (the Plans) which we use to identify speciﬁ c 
targets and objectives.
Throughout the year we produce ‘latest estimates’ to predict the 
likely year end position. The latest estimates are compared with 
the Plans and enable us to monitor and check our performance 
and, where appropriate, challenge sections of the business if 
actual or anticipated performance varies from the Plans.
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Company 
Secretary and comprises senior management from across our 
business and meets, as required, in order to consider major 
ﬁ nancial disclosures.
During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all major 
ﬁ nancial disclosures, including Trading Updates, Interim 
Management Statements, Half Yearly Report, Annual Report 
and Accounts and appropriate corporate ﬁ nancing 
documentation. To meet its responsibilities when reviewing 
these major ﬁ nancial disclosures, the Committee members 
made enquiries into all aspects of the business which, together 
with their own business knowledge, ensured disclosures were 
complete with no material issues omitted. The Committee 
reported on its reviews to our Chief Executive and Finance 
Director and, where appropriate, the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were 
reviewed during the year to ensure they continued to 
be appropriate. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials
52
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risk Management Overview
We outline below the principal risks speciﬁ c to our business and how we manage and mitigate them. Not all these 
factors are within our control and the list is not exhaustive. There may be other risks and uncertainties that are 
unknown to us and the list may change as something that seems immaterial now assumes greater importance in 
the future, and vice versa.
We are subject to the same general risks as many other businesses; for example, changes in general economic conditions, 
including currency and interest rate ﬂ uctuations, changes in taxation legislation, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT 
infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, the impact of competition, political instability in some of the countries in which 
we operate and source our raw materials and the impact of natural disasters. 
Principal Risks
Illicit Trade 
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales 
Overview
Illicit trade remains a key risk for the Group, particularly given the tough economic conditions in certain markets during the year. In 
countries where difﬁ cult economic conditions result in reduced disposable incomes, consumers look for cheaper products. Illicit 
trade can take the form of smuggled genuine tobacco products, counterfeit tobacco products and illicit whites (whereby third 
parties produce cigarettes paying minimal tax, for the primary purpose of smuggling). This area is a signiﬁ cant and growing problem 
for the legitimate tobacco industry. We estimate that the illicit trade in tobacco accounts for over 10 per cent of the global tobacco 
market and in our engagement activities we are proactively encouraging regulators to address the relationship between excessive 
regulation, excise duty increases and illicit trade.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Illicit trade may lead to erosion of demand for legitimate 
tobacco products and damage to our brand integrity, resulting 
in loss of potential earnings, and potentially an impact on 
our reputation.
Illegal trading in our products may result in the Group and/or 
our employees being subject to investigation or other 
proceedings by customs or other authorities which could 
ultimately result in penalties and ﬁ nes being imposed on 
the Group.
We proactively engage on the issue of illicit trade with a wide 
range of stakeholders. 
We invest to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products and 
are working with governments, other legitimate tobacco 
companies and international organisations globally.
In 2010, we entered into a 20-year co-operation agreement 
with the EU to collectively tackle the problem of illicit trade. 
We work alongside the European Commission’s Anti-Fraud 
Ofﬁ ce (OLAF) and the law enforcement agencies of EU 
Member States.
We have signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) 
and industry agreements with customs authorities in 
21 countries to tackle illicit trade, based on joint action 
and shared intelligence.
We have strong internal business conduct standards and 
controls and apply stringent controls to our customers. 
These are set out in our Group policies and standards, 
Code of Conduct and product supply compliance processes 
and procedures. Our Code of Conduct is available on our 
website www.imperial-tobacco.com. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials 53
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Excise Duty
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales 
Overview
Tobacco products are subject to excise duty which, in many of the markets in which we operate, represents a substantial 
percentage of the retail price. Taxes are generally increasing in many markets and the rate of increase varies country by country 
and by different tobacco product group.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Substantial increases in excise duty and any unfavourable 
change in the tax treatment of ﬁ ne cut tobacco, if widely 
adopted, may have an adverse effect on the demand for 
our products and impact our future proﬁ t development.
Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal 
cross-border trade from countries with lower levels of duty.
Our total tobacco portfolio ensures that we have a range of 
products to meet consumers’ preferences at different price 
points. As part of our strategy we monitor our portfolio to 
ensure it continues to be aligned to consumer preferences 
in the context of the excise duty structure in each market. 
We are focused on continuing to develop portfolio strategies 
that will enable us to capitalise on value seeking consumers.
We are engaging with local tax and customs authorities to 
encourage them to address the relationship between excise 
duty increases and illicit trade.
Regulation
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost
Overview
The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices worldwide, as regulators seek to 
reduce consumption of tobacco products. In many of the countries in which we operate, there are a wide range of regulatory 
restrictions in place, including where tobacco products can be smoked and their development, content, manufacture, packaging 
and labelling, testing, data reporting, sale, distribution, display, marketing and advertising. Some of these measures may also 
have the effect of reducing the value of our brands in the various markets where we operate, as well as encouraging illicit trade.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Imperial Tobacco, along with all other tobacco companies, 
is often excluded from engaging with regulators on the 
development of regulatory proposals which may lead to 
excessive regulation.
Tobacco regulation is often designed to change consumer 
behaviour by inﬂ uencing availability and demand through 
denormalising smoking, by means of such measures as 
increasing pack encroachment and plain packaging, the 
restriction in places where smoking is permitted and higher 
excise duties. Increasing regulation combined with rising 
excise duties encourage growth in illicit trade.
Any future changes to regulation of the tobacco industry could 
have an adverse effect on the demand for our products or 
increase the costs related to compliance and contribute to 
an increase in illicit trade.
We employ experienced senior Corporate Affairs specialists to 
manage regulatory risk and engage with regulators and consult 
with external experts where necessary to provide advice and 
guidance. We develop company positions and toolkits and 
provide training and guidance for our markets to comply 
with regulation.
We monitor proposals for new measures globally and analyse 
them to identify their potential impact on the Group and its 
products. We work towards consistent engagement on key 
issues and we are active members of relevant industry bodies, 
challenging unreasonable and disproportionate regulation.
We continuously look to understand and predict potential 
consumer reaction to excessive regulation and adapt our 
strategy accordingly, including for example assessing our 
footprint, assets and product quality. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials
54
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Market Place 
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost
Overview
The continued growth of our business is underpinned by the performance of our key brands as well as our position in our key 
markets, including in the UK, Germany, Spain and other EU markets. Given our signiﬁ cant position in certain markets, we may 
be subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in these countries, as well as being affected by their economic positions.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Any material decline in the economic circumstances of, and/or 
our performance in, our key markets may impact on our future 
proﬁ t development and have an adverse impact on the Group’s 
revenue or proﬁ ts.
Our signiﬁ cant market position in certain countries could also 
result in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant 
competition authorities, including the potential for monetary 
ﬁ nes and negative publicity.
Our international footprint and total tobacco portfolio provides 
an increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and Non-EU 
markets.
Our total tobacco portfolio includes international strength in 
cigarettes and world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco, cigars, 
rolling papers and tubes which provides us with enhanced 
growth opportunities.
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of 
Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with 
competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees 
detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers 
specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance 
regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
More detail of a market speciﬁ c regulatory action by a 
competition authority is outlined on page 74.
Eurozone – Country and currency risk
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and proﬁ tability
Overview
Recent developments in Eurozone countries have resulted in a higher risk of disruption, a reduction in the level of consumer 
spending and increased risk of currency volatility and/or the potential of an exit of one or more countries from the euro.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Fifty three per cent of our revenue is from our sales in Eurozone 
countries and, accordingly, we have a signiﬁ cant exposure to 
these markets. 
Ongoing uncertainty regarding the future of the euro, or 
the exit of one or more countries may impact consumer 
spending patterns.
Further, were a break-up to occur, the resulting situation 
may cause disruption to our manufacturing and supply 
chain operations.
We are continually monitoring our exposure and reviewing our 
existing processes and policies to minimise our economic 
exposure and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of 
potential conditions that may exist in the event of one or more 
of these future events.
Our total tobacco portfolio also gives us a measure of resilience 
as the market changes. Overview Performance Strategic Review Governance Financials 55
Risk
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financing
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and cash
Overview
We have a signiﬁ cant level of committed debt which is ﬁ nanced primarily in the debt capital markets and in the bank loan markets. 
We expect to rely on these markets to reﬁ nance this debt when it matures and rely on the availability of committed funds from our 
bank counterparties to be available when required to be drawn. 
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
We may be unable to reﬁ nance our debt, when it matures, in 
the debt capital markets and loan markets. In addition, the cost 
of reﬁ nancing the debt, when it matures, may be materially 
higher than the current cost.
We may be subject to reduced availability of ﬁ nancing 
because our bank counterparties are unable to honour their 
commitments when required to deliver funds that they have 
committed to lend when requested.
Although a material part of the Group’s debt is currently at ﬁ xed 
levels of interest, the Group is still exposed to movements in 
interest rates which could result in higher cash outﬂ ows.
If we are unable to reﬁ nance our debt or incur higher interest 
costs this could impact the Group’s proﬁ tability, credit rating 
and ability to operate as a going concern.
In addition, limited ability to borrow additional funds may also 
reduce the ﬂ exibility for, or reacting to, competitive and industry 
pressures, or opportunities.
We have a centralised treasury function, which is responsible 
for the management of the ﬁ nancial risks of the Group, together 
with its ﬁ nancing and liquidity requirements.
The Group Treasury Committee (GTC) sets a framework for the 
treasury function to operate within. The framework covers, 
amongst other things, ﬁ nancing, liquidity and counterparty risk.
The GTC oversees the operation of Group Treasury in 
accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions 
and receives regular reports from the Group Treasurer.
Cashﬂ ows and ﬁ nancing requirements are regularly forecast 
and developments in debt capital and bank loan markets are 
monitored to ensure we are well placed to meet the future 
ﬁ nancing needs of the Group.
Further details of the Group’s treasury operations and the approach to managing its ﬁ nancing risks can be found in note 19 to the 
Financial Statements on pages 118 to 123.
Legal Compliance
Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and sales
Overview
We may be exposed to liabilities and reputational risk by failing to comply with any of the laws that are applicable to the Group or 
incur costs and liabilities as a result of tobacco litigation claims.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities
Failure to comply with local and international laws (including 
sanctions) may result in investigations. This may cause damage 
to our reputation and has the potential for ﬁ nancial and criminal 
penalties for both the Group and individuals.
Tobacco-related litigation claims are pending against the Group 
in a number of countries. More claims may be brought in the 
future, including claims for personal injury and the recovery 
of medical costs allegedly incurred in treating smokers. If any 
claim were to be successful, it may result in a signiﬁ cant 
liability for damages and may lead to further claims against us. 
Regardless of the outcome, the costs of defending such 
claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of 
Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with 
legislation relevant to a UK listed company and in the countries 
in which we operate.
We monitor closely developments in international sanctions and 
ensure that we are fully compliant with them.
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group 
has been successful and/or resulted in the recovery of 
damages. We employ internal and external lawyers specialising 
in the defence of product liability litigation to provide advice 
and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage 
litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
Further details of market speciﬁ c tobacco litigation claims against Group companies are outlined on page 74. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
56
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 57
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
58 Chairman’s Introduction
60 Board of Directors
64 Board Committees
70 Corporate Governance Report
77 Directors’ Remuneration Report
What you will find in this section: 
Governance
Fi F F Fi F ne ne c c c cut ut t tob ob obac acco co
Ou Ou Ou O O O r r r wo wo wo wo orl rld d d le lead ad der ersh sh hip ip ip i in n n ﬁ ﬁ ﬁne ne ne c cut ut t t tob ob obac ac cco co i is s a a re re eal al a 
st s s st t t t s re re re eng ng ng g n th th th t th h o o o o of f f f ou ou our r bu busi i s s ne ess ss, pa part rtic icul ular a arly ly y i i in n n n th h th he e e e e cu cu u curr ren en n e e t t t t
e ec ec econ on o ono om o om m o ic ic ic ic c c c c cli li li lima ma ma ma ma m te te te te te e. . . We We We We’r ’re e e e ha ha h vi vi ving ng g g g g gre reat at at a s s su uc uc ucce ce e e ess s ss ss i i in n n 
ou ou our r r co c co c c c re re E E EU U U U ma ma ma ark rk rk rke et et ets, s, s s, p p p p par ar ar ar arti ti ti ti ticu cu cu cu u cu u ula la a la la larl rl r rl rl rly y y y y in in in in in in i t t t t t t the he he he he he h h h h h hig ig gh h h h
gr gr gr gr g gr gr gr grow ow ow ow ow o owth th h th h s s seg eg g egme ment t nt o o o of f ma make ke y you ou ou u ur ow ow ow own n n n n to t to to to toba ba ba ba ba bacc cc c c c c o o o. o. o
Building Total Tobacco Brands Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
58
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Chairman’s Introduction
“ Strong governance is integral to 
our business model and this year 
we have focused on succession 
planning and enhancing risk 
management and assurance.”
Iain Napier Chairman
As Chairman, my primary responsibility is to make 
sure that Imperial Tobacco is governed and managed 
with openness, honesty and transparency and in 
the best interests of both our shareholders and our 
wider stakeholders.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance, which we believe are fundamental to discharging 
our stewardship responsibilities.
In the section that follows, we set out our governance 
framework and explain how the sound and effective corporate 
governance practices we have in place are supporting our 
strategy of creating long-term, sustainable growth.
Board Focus in 2012
During 2012, as a Board we have overseen and worked with 
the management team to ensure the continued successful 
execution of our strategy. Pages 8 to 37 of this report contain 
a detailed performance overview of how we’ve delivered 
sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing costs 
and cash. 
With strong governance integral to our business model, 
we have additionally focused on two key areas this year: 
succession planning and risk management and assurance.
Board Succession and Diversity
Our Directors have differing international backgrounds combined 
with a wide range of professional, business and sector speciﬁ c 
expertise. This ensures a truly balanced Board with the right mix 
of skills and experiences sitting round the Boardroom table to 
fully contribute to and effectively challenge decision making.
The Board’s composition has continued to evolve this year 
in line with the current and future needs of the business and 
the dynamic nature of the tobacco operating environment. 
The appointments we’ve made this year further strengthen 
the Board’s skill set, experiences and diversity.
Corporate Affairs continues to play an increasingly signiﬁ cant 
role in supporting our sales growth agenda and as a result 
Matthew Phillips, formerly Company Secretary and Group 
Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, was appointed Corporate 
Affairs Director on 1 June 2012. 
Malcolm Wyman and David Haines were appointed 
Non-Executive Directors. Pierre Jungels retired at our Annual 
General Meeting in February 2012 and, as part of an orderly 
succession, Mark Williamson took over as Senior Independent 
Director and Malcolm Wyman as Audit Committee Chairman. 
Diversity for us means appointing the right people for the 
job and our Board appointments are made purely on merit. 
We’re committed to appointing the best people, regardless of 
gender, race, religion, age or disability and do not think it is 
appropriate to set diversity targets for Board appointments.
Risk Management and Assurance 
Successfully managing risk to support growth is fundamental to 
our long-term sustainability.
We have further strengthened our risk management procedures 
and brought these together into a new Corporate Assurance 
Department replacing our Group Compliance function with 
responsibility for driving risk management initiatives throughout 
the organisation. More detail on our risk management and 
assurance processes can be found in the Risk Management 
section on page 48.
Committed to 
good governance Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 59
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration
Our remuneration policies are designed to attract, retain and 
motivate our people. To better align with our strategy we have 
conducted a review of our remuneration policies and have 
included details on page 84.
Board Evaluation
As a Board, we want to continually improve our performance 
and every year I lead a rigorous evaluation, assisted by an 
independent consultant. I was assisted in the 2012 evaluation 
by EquityCommunications Ltd.
Both our 2011 and 2012 evaluations concluded that there is an 
open and collaborative Board culture with a good level of trust 
and respect and universal Board alignment behind our key 
strategic objectives.
The two main areas identiﬁ ed for review are our ongoing 
succession plans for Directors approaching retirement and 
ensuring our improved risk and assurance processes are further 
integrated into the business. You can read more on our 
objectives on page 64 of this report.
Board Priorities 2013
Strong governance continues to be integral to our business 
model, supporting our strategy of creating long-term 
sustainable value. 
Overseeing the successful delivery of our sales growth strategy 
remains the Board’s priority. 
In order to drive the delivery of our strategy we will continue 
developing ongoing succession plans to ensure an appropriate 
skill set and, subject to obtaining shareholder approval, will 
oversee the introduction of our revised remuneration policy.
In addition we will also continue to embed our enhanced 
risk management and assurance processes throughout 
the business.
Iain Napier
Chairman
Management and Corporate Structure
Board
Chairman and 
Non-Executive
Directors
Executive
Directors
Disclosure 
Committee p51
Nominations 
Committee p66
Audit
Committee p68
Remuneration 
Committee p77
Operating
Executive p63
Group functions, regions, 
markets and factories Our Skills and 
Experience
Our Directors bring 
together the right mix 
of skills and diversity 
of backgrounds and 
experiences to deliver 
our strategy, enhance 
shareholder value 
and ensure our 
long-term sustainability. 
The in-depth tobacco 
experience of our 
Executive Directors 
is supported by our 
independent Non-
Executive Directors 
who bring a wide range 
of global experiences, 
including FMCG, 
ﬁ nance, mergers and 
acquisitions, and sales 
and marketing.
Our Values and Code 
of Conduct
We’re responsible for 
ensuring that high 
standards of behaviour 
begin at Board level 
and are embedded 
throughout our 
business.
Key
 
Executive Director
 
Non-Executive Director
 Company Secretary
N
 
Nominations Committee
A
 
Audit Committee
R
  
Remuneration Committee
Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
60
Governance
Board of Directors
Matthew Phillips
Corporate Affairs Director
Skills and experience
Matthew has held a number of 
senior roles including Company 
Secretary, General Counsel and 
Group Corporate and Legal Affairs 
Director prior to his appointment 
to the Board as Corporate Affairs 
Director in June 2012. He played 
a key role in the acquisitions of 
Altadis and Reemtsma and has 
been closely involved in developing 
and supporting the Group’s sales 
growth strategy.
Robert Dyrbus
Finance Director
Skills and experience
Robert draws on over 25 years 
of financial experience in listed 
companies and has been 
instrumental in the Group’s 
international expansion. He has 
overall responsibility for the 
financial management and 
control of the Group, including 
its treasury, tax, information 
services, corporate assurance 
and investor relations functions.
Iain Napier
Chairman
Skills and experience
As a former Chief Executive of 
Taylor Woodrow PLC and main 
board Director of Bass PLC, Iain 
brings considerable senior level 
board and general management 
experience to the Group.
N
 Chairman
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
Skills and experience
Since being appointed as Chief 
Executive Alison has led the 
development and implementation 
of the Group’s sustainable sales 
growth strategy. Alison joined 
the Group in 1999 and, through 
a number of senior roles, has 
contributed significantly to the 
international expansion of the 
Group including leading the 
Altadis acquisition team. John Downing
Company Secretary
Skills and experience 
John joined Imperial in 2005 having 
worked for law firm Linklaters. 
He has had a number of senior 
legal roles in Imperial and was 
appointed Head of Group Legal 
in 2010. He played a leading role 
in the Altadis acquisition and 
has considerable experience in 
managing key corporate projects 
related to financing, business 
development and other 
commercial matters.
Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 61
Governance
David Haines
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
David brings considerable senior 
level board experience and is 
currently Chief Executive Officer 
of Grohe AG. He joined Grohe in 
2004 from Vodafone Group PLC 
where he was Global Marketing 
Director. He is also a former 
Chairman of Vimpelcom A/O. 
David gained extensive general 
management and sales experience 
with Vodafone and Mars earlier in 
his career.
N
 
A
 
R
Berge Setrakian
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Berge is a senior partner in the 
law firm DLA Piper LLP (US) and 
brings extensive expertise in 
international transactions. He also 
brings significant experience as a 
Non-Executive Director, including 
within the tobacco sector having 
been appointed to Altadis S.A.’s 
board in 2004.
N
 
R
Malcolm Wyman
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
As a qualified accountant and 
former Chief Financial Officer of 
SAB Miller plc, with responsibility 
for the group’s financial operations, 
corporate finance and development 
and group strategy, Malcolm 
brings not only a wealth of financial 
expertise but also considerable 
general management experience 
to the Board. He also meets the 
financial expert requirements of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
N
 
A
 Chairman 
R
 
Ken Burnett
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Ken, an independent management 
consultant, brings significant 
experience of the consumer goods 
sector in the Asia Pacific region. 
He was President, Asia Pacific 
of Allied Domecq from 1996 until 
its acquisition by Pernod Ricard 
in 2005. 
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, 
he held senior management 
positions in the Asia Pacific region 
with Seagram, Interbrew and 
International Distillers & Vintners 
Ltd (now part of Diageo plc).
N
 
A
 
R
Mark Williamson
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Mark is a qualified accountant, 
who brings considerable financial 
and general managerial experience 
to our Board and who meets the 
financial expert requirements of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Mark was Chief Financial Officer of 
International Power plc until 2012 
and has considerable experience 
of managing relationships with the 
investor and financial communities.
Prior to joining International Power 
plc, Mark was Group Financial 
Controller and Group Chief 
Accountant of Simon Group.
N
 
A
 
R
Susan Murray
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Susan brings to the Board a 
wealth of international general 
management, strategy and 
marketing experience, as a former 
Chief Executive of Littlewoods 
Stores Limited and worldwide 
President and Chief Executive of 
The Pierre Smirnoff Company. 
Susan has considerable experience 
as a Non-Executive Director. 
She is a former Non-Executive 
Director of SSL International plc, 
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc 
and a former council member 
of the Advertising Standards 
Authority.
N
 
A
 
R
Michael Herlihy
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Michael is General Counsel for 
Smiths Group plc. He was formerly 
General Counsel and Head of 
Mergers and Acquisitions for 
ICI PLC with overall responsibility 
for corporate acquisitions and 
divestments and has extensive 
experience of both private and 
public market transactions.
N
 
A
 
R
 Chairman Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
62
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Iain Napier, FCMA
Chairman
Appointment
Appointed Chairman in January 2007.
Non-Executive Director from March 2000. 
External appointments
Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and John Menzies 
plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Molson Coors Brewing 
Company and William Grant & Sons Holdings Limited.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA
Chief Executive
Appointment
Appointed Director in July 2007. Appointed Chief Executive in 
May 2010.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Inchcape plc since July 2009.
Robert Dyrbus BSC, FCA
Finance Director
Appointment
Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996.
External appointments
No external Director appointments.
Matthew Phillips LLB
Corporate Affairs Director
Appointment
Appointed Corporate Affairs Director in June 2012.
External appointments
No external Director appointments.
Mark Williamson, CA (SA)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Mark joined the Board in July 2007 and was appointed Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2012. 
External appointments
Serves on the board of National Grid plc.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD, M Inst M
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006. 
External appointments
Director of Elemental Energy Technologies Limited.
David Haines
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in February 2012.
External appointments
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer of Grohe AG, Director of Joyou AG.
Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), Solicitor
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
External appointments
Serves on the board of Compass Partners International LLP 
and is currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
Berge Setrakian
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008. 
External appointments
Partner of DLA Piper LLP (US), Executive Chairman and CEO of 
AGBU, Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New York, 
Non-Executive Director of The Morganti Group, Inc.
Malcolm Wyman, CA (SA)
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011 and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in February 2012.
External appointments
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Nedbank Group 
Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Tsogo Sun Holdings 
Limited, both listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Susan Murray CCMI
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
External appointments
Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and Non-Executive 
Director of Pernod Ricard SA, Compass Group PLC and 
Enterprise Inns Plc. Susan is also a fellow of the Royal Society 
of Arts.
John Downing
Company Secretary
Appointment
Appointed Company Secretary in June 2012.
Board of Directors continued
 8 years and over – 2 
 5 to 7 years – 1
 3 to 4 years – 3
 1 to 2 years – 2
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Overview Strategic Review Risk Financials 63
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance
Operating Executive
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive and Chairman of OPEX
“ Our focus on building 
total tobacco brands 
has driven quality 
sales growth in 2012.”
The Board delegates responsibility for developing and implementing the 
Group’s strategy and for day-to-day management to the Chief Executive, 
Alison Cooper, who is supported by the Operating Executive (OPEX), which 
she chairs. 
OPEX members are appointed by the Chief Executive, after consultation 
with the Board. The OPEX meets on a monthly basis and its purpose is to 
support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to her by 
the Board. In that context, the OPEX oversees brand and operational 
execution, delivers strategic plans, ﬁ nancial plans and reports for the Board’s 
consideration and, through the Chief Executive, reports on these matters to 
the Board. The OPEX also ensures that effective internal controls are in place 
and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in 
operation throughout the Group.
Members
Robert Dyrbus 
(Finance Director)
Helen Clatworthy 
(Group Supply 
Chain Director)
Fernando Dominguez 
(Chief Operating Officer 
Cigar Business)
Roberto Funari 
(Group Marketing 
Director) 
Kathryn Turner 
(Group Human 
Resources Director 
to December 2011)
Andrew Newall 
(Group Human 
Resources Director 
from October 2012)
Matthew Phillips 
(Corporate 
Affairs Director)
Walter Prinz 
(Group Manufacturing, 
Research & 
Development Director)
Arthur van Benthem 
(Group Sales Director)
Achievements for 2012
 – Continued delivery of sales 
growth strategy.
 – Effective day-to-day operational 
management of the Group and 
detailed monitoring of operational 
performance across all aspects 
of the business.
 – Increased risk management 
focus and oversight as part of 
our enhanced risk management 
process.
 – The launch of our new values 
across our global operations.
2013 Objectives
 – Building momentum across our 
total tobacco portfolio and to 
further develop our consumer 
insights. 
 – Accelerate the international 
roll-out of Davidoff iD and 
capitalise on the growth potential 
of core heritage brands.
 – Further embed our values across 
the business.
 – More detail on our 2013 priorities 
is on page 10.
Overview Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
64
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board and its Committees
Board
Iain Napier
Chairman
“ Board succession 
planning and risk 
management and 
assurance have been 
key areas of focus 
this year.”
The Board sets the strategic objectives for the Group and their measurement 
criteria, determines investment policies and delegates to management 
the detailed planning and implementation of those objectives and policies 
in accordance with appropriate risk parameters. The Board monitors 
compliance with policies and achievement against objectives by holding 
management accountable for its activities through monthly and quarterly 
performance reporting. 
At each meeting the Board receives regular updates from the Chief Executive 
on the Group’s operations, reports from the Finance Director on ﬁ nancial 
performance and updates on compliance with corporate governance 
requirements and other regulations from the Company Secretary. In addition, 
senior management makes regular presentations to the Board, enabling 
Directors to explore and consider speciﬁ c issues and developments in 
greater detail.
The Board’s full terms of reference are available on www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Members
Ken Burnett 
Alison Cooper
Robert Dyrbus
David Haines 
(appointed 2/2/12)
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels 
(retired 1/2/12)
Susan Murray
Matthew Phillips 
(appointed 1/6/12, 
Secretary to 1/6/12)
Berge Setrakian 
Mark Williamson 
(Senior Independent 
Director)
Malcolm Wyman 
(appointed 3/10/11)
John Downing
(Secretary, 
appointed 1/6/12)
Achievements for 2012
 – Review and development of our 
three year business plan.
 – Continued oversight of the 
management team for successful 
execution of our strategy.
 – Continued focus on succession 
planning with the appointment 
of a new Senior Independent 
Director, two Non-Executive 
Directors and a Corporate 
Affairs Director.
 – Further improvements to 
our risk management and 
assurance process.
 – Remuneration review completed. 
New performance criteria 
identiﬁ ed and agreed, subject 
to shareholder approval at our 
2013 Annual General Meeting.
2013 Objectives
 – Ensuring that through ongoing 
succession plans the Board 
maintains the appropriate skill 
set to continue to deliver our 
strategy and create long-term 
value for our shareholders.
 – Oversee delivery against our 
business plan for the year and 
the development of our next 
three year business plan.
 – Facilitate opportunities for the 
Non-Executive Directors to 
meet with the Group’s senior 
management team.
 – Further improvements to 
our risk management and 
assurance process.
Overview Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 65
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board in 2012
In the 2012 ﬁ nancial year the Board considered the retirement and appointment of Directors, our corporate and annual plans, our 
funding arrangements (speciﬁ cally reﬁ nancing through Bond issues) and the outcome of the Board evaluation. In addition, as part 
of the Board strategy meeting, senior managers from across the business presented on key strategic issues.
By reviewing the Group’s results at each Board meeting we ensure Directors are kept informed of our progress. Between Board 
meetings, Directors are supplied with monthly performance reports, including detailed commentary and analysis. 
October 2011 – Review of the 2011 ﬁ nancial results 
 – Consideration of the Group’s Going Concern status
 – Review of Corporate Responsibility Performance 
 – Review of Logista operations
 – Consideration of ﬁ nal dividend
 – Review of external operating environment
 – Review of the 2011 Board evaluation
January/February 2012 – AGM preparation including interim management statement
 – Succession review including appointment of Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of Audit Committee
 – Review of macro economic environment and impact on strategy
 – Capital expenditure review
 – Update on Investor Relations issues
April 2012 – Review of the 2012 Half Year Results 
 – Consideration of the Group’s funding strategy 
 – Update on assurance and risk processes
June 2012 – Visit to Cantabria factory 
 – Financial performance update
 – Consideration of interim management statement
 – Market reviews – including update on sales growth drivers and review of Spain and Russia
September 2012 – Review of the 2012 Board evaluation 
 – Consideration of the three year corporate plan 
 – Review of the risk, assurance and internal control processes
 – Evaluation of future growth opportunities
 – Review of potential impact of regulatory activity
Board visit to Cantabria
It’s important for the Board to visit our operations, meet our 
people and see the progress we’re making at ﬁ rst hand.
In 2012 the Board visited our factory in Cantabria, 
Spain which is our centre of excellence for mass market 
cigar-making. 
An investment of €9.5 million has seen the factory expand 
and annual production has doubled in just three years.
Directors toured the factory, met employees and received 
detailed presentations from the Spanish and Russian 
management teams on how growth is being achieved.
David Haines, Non-Executive Director said: “The Cantabria 
visit allowed me to build my knowledge and understanding, 
but most importantly I was able to meet the people in the 
factory and gain exposure to our cigar centre of excellence.” Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
66
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board and its Committees continued
Nominations Committee
Iain Napier
Chairman
“ We’re focused on 
ensuring the Board 
has the right balance 
of skills and experience 
to build on our long 
track record of success.”
During the year the Nominations Committee, which comprises all the Non-
Executive Directors and meets as required, was chaired by Iain Napier.
The Nominations Committee considers the composition of the Board and its 
Committees, the retirement, appointment and replacement of Directors, and 
makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
The Committee has continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board and remains committed to the progressive renewal of 
the Board through orderly succession. Where vacancies arise the Committee 
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the appointment. 
Appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, for the Executive 
Directors and for senior management were also kept under close review.
Appointing the best people to our Board, regardless of gender, race, religion, age 
or disability, is crucial. Board appointments are made purely on merit so that we 
have the right skill set to build on our long track record of success. We appoint 
individuals from diverse professional and geographic backgrounds to ensure 
the Board has a wide range of business and ﬁ nancial expertise. Given our 
commitment to appointing the best people we do not think it is appropriate to 
set targets for Board appointments.
The Nominations Committee’s full terms of reference are available on 
www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Members
Ken Burnett
David Haines 
(appointed 2/2/12)
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels 
(retired 1/2/12)
Susan Murray
Berge Setrakian
Mark Williamson
Malcolm Wyman 
(appointed 3/10/11)
Matthew Phillips 
(Secretary to 1/6/12)
John Downing 
(Secretary, 
appointed 1/6/12)
Achievements for 2012
 – Continued to evolve succession 
plans.
 – Appointment of Mark Williamson 
as Senior Independent Director 
succeeding Pierre Jungels.
 – Appointment of David Haines 
and Malcolm Wyman as 
Non-Executive Directors.
 – Appointment of Matthew Phillips 
as Corporate Affairs Director, 
reﬂ ecting the dynamic nature 
of the tobacco operating 
environment.
2013 Objectives
 – Maintain ongoing succession 
plans, specifically in respect of 
Directors approaching retirement 
and if required identify and 
recommend to the Board 
appropriate candidates for 
appointment.
 – Review the balance of the 
Board in terms of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors.
 – Ensure the Board retains the 
skill set appropriate to drive 
the Company’s strategy whilst 
understanding its external 
environment.
Overview Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 67
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Re-election of Directors
Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation 
by the Nominations Committee, all Directors are appointed by 
the Board and are subject to election and subsequent annual 
re-election by shareholders.
Before recommending such election or re-election the 
performance of each Director is considered as part of the 
annual evaluation of the Board. Following the 2012 evaluation 
and consideration of each Director’s attendance at Board and 
Committee meetings as detailed in the table below, the Board 
recommends the election or re-election of all Directors who 
are standing for election or re-election at our 2013 AGM.
We recognise that a number of shareholders have expressed 
concern that annual re-election of Directors could encourage 
them to take a short-term view. We are, however, conﬁ dent 
that our remuneration policies and shareholding requirements 
encourage Directors to act in the best long-term interests of 
stakeholders, for example through bonus targets and claw back 
provisions, the long-term focus of our remuneration strategy and 
shareholding requirements.
The composition, skill set and balance of our Board, together 
with the length of service of each Director, is reviewed regularly 
to identify the skills required of future directors.
Accordingly, prior to the appointment of Malcolm Wyman and 
David Haines, skill set requirements were developed further 
to which Korn Ferry/Whitehead Mann was instructed to 
identify potential candidates. Following their appointments, 
Malcolm Wyman and David Haines underwent a tailored 
induction and brieﬁ ng programme, further details of which 
are on page 71.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM 
Board
Nominations 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Annual General 
Meeting
Total number of meetings in Financial Year 52471
Number of meetings attended in Financial Year
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper 5/5 – – – 1/1
Mr R Dyrbus 5/5 – – – 1/1
Mr M R Phillips
1
2/2––––
Non-Executive Directors
Mr I J G Napier 5/5 2/2 – – 1/1
Dr K M Burnett
2
5/5 2/2 2/2 6/6 1/1
Mr D J Haines
3
3/3 1/1 1/1 3/3 –
Mr M H C Herlihy 5/5 2/2 4/4 7/7 1/1
Dr P H Jungels
4 6
1/2 1/1 1/2 0/1 1/1
Ms S E Murray 5/5 2/2 4/4 7/7 1/1
Mr B Setrakian
2
5/5 2/2 – 6/6 1/1
Mr M D Williamson 5/5 2/2 4/4 7/7 1/1
Mr M I Wyman
5 6
5/5 2/2 4/4 6/7 1/1
1 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
2 Dr K M Burnett was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Mr B Setrakian was appointed to the Remuneration 
Committee on 31 January 2012.
3 Mr D J Haines was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2012.
4  Dr P H Jungels retired from the Board on 2 February 2012.
5  Mr M I Wyman was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
6 Due to prior commitments, Dr P H Jungels was unable to attend one Board meeting and its associated Committee meetings, and Mr M I Wyman was 
unable to attend one Committee meeting.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
68
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board and its Committees continued
Audit Committee
“ We’ve improved our 
corporate assurance 
processes, further 
embedding our risk 
management processes 
and internal controls.”
The Audit Committee comprises six independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Both Malcolm Wyman and Mark Williamson are qualiﬁ ed accountants and, 
therefore, we meet the requirements of the Code and the Committee’s terms 
of reference that at least one of its members is a ﬁ nancial expert. 
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board in 
discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the Company’s ﬁ nancial 
statements, overseeing the internal control and risk management processes, 
ensuring that appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance 
are being met, appointing the Group’s Auditors and monitoring their performance 
and independence and overseeing our Speaking Up (whistle-blowing) policy.
The Finance Director, the Director of Finance and Planning, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Head of Group Compliance (and from January 2012 the Director 
of Corporate Assurance), the Deputy Company Secretary and other ﬁ nancial 
managers are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee, as well as our 
external Auditors. Both the Director of Corporate Assurance and the external 
Auditors have separate formal meetings with the Committee, without any 
Executive Director or other manager being present, at each meeting. 
The Audit Committee’s full terms of reference are available on 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Members
Ken Burnett
David Haines 
(appointed 26/4/12)
Michael Herlihy
Pierre Jungels 
(retired 1/2/12)
Susan Murray
Mark Williamson 
(Chairman to 1/2/12)
Matthew Phillips 
(Secretary to 1/6/12)
John Downing 
(Secretary from 1/6/12)
Achievements for 2012
 – Improved risk management and 
assurance process, reﬂ ecting 
our enhanced internal controls, 
our new risk and assurance 
processes and the creation of 
our new Corporate Assurance 
Department (see page 50).
 – Review of the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
results throughout the ﬁ nancial 
year including periodic 
announcements to the market 
and the potential impairment 
adjustments as a result of the 
continued deterioration in the 
Spanish economy.
 – Considered the results of a net 
investment hedging review 
carried out during the ﬁ rst half 
of the year.
 – Reviewed the processes to 
ensure the Group has adequate 
procedures in place to control 
bribery and corruption risks.
2013 Objectives
 – Oversee the embedding of our 
revised risk management and 
assurance processes and 
ensuring their effective operation.
 – Reviewing the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
results throughout the year.
 – Oversee the rotation of the 
external audit partner and 
reviewing the independence 
of our Auditors and their 
ongoing effectiveness. 
Overview Malcolm Wyman
Chairman Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 69
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Activities of the Committee
The Audit Committee held four meetings during the ﬁ nancial 
year. In addition to the achievements on page 68, the Audit 
Committee considered the following standing items of business:
 – evaluating the Board’s going concern review (more details on 
page 36). The Audit Committee is satisﬁ ed that the Board 
has made an appropriate assessment taking into account 
the risks facing the Group;
 – the Group’s net investment hedging and related foreign 
exchange exposures;
 – reports from members of Corporate Assurance, Group 
Compliance (Internal Audit), Group Finance and other 
functions. These reports and the opportunity to ask 
questions provide the Committee with the information 
required to oversee our systems of internal control for 
ﬁ nancial reporting, internal control policies, corporate 
governance procedures, the system of risk management 
and to assess the review and mitigation of associated 
risks; 
 – the internal audit plan for the ﬁ nancial year ending 
30 September 2013;
 – an annual review of the external Auditors’ independence, 
proposed audit plan, fee proposal and conﬁ rmation of 
their independence. This, together with management’s 
assessment of the Auditors’ effectiveness and independence, 
allows the Committee to establish the scope, effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity of our Auditors and, if 
appropriate, recommend to the Board their reappointment;
 – the output from the evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
Audit Committee, which conﬁ rmed the Committee continues 
to operate effectively;
 – approving accounting policies, as required; and
 – consideration of the accounting treatment relating to 
ongoing enquiries detailed on pages 74 and 75;
External Audit
Auditor Independence Policy
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of our 
Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor 
Independence Policy. This policy provides clear deﬁ nitions of 
services that our external Auditors can and cannot provide. 
Our Auditors may only provide non-audit services where those 
services do not conﬂ ict with their independence, for example 
tax compliance work. The policy also establishes a formal 
authorisation process, including the tendering for non-audit 
services expected to generate fees in excess of £250,000, and 
pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit 
work that they may perform. Our policy also establishes 
guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees 
of our Auditors and for the recruitment of our employees by the 
Auditors. Details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the 
Auditors are shown on page 108.
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year our 
Audit Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration 
received by our Auditors for audit services, audit-related services 
and non-audit work. The outcome of these reviews was that 
performance of the relevant non-audit work by our Auditors was 
in compliance with the policy and was the most cost-effective 
way of conducting our business. No conﬂ icts of interest were 
found to exist between such audit and non-audit work which 
principally related to tax advisory work. The Audit Committee 
conﬁ rms that we continue to receive an efﬁ cient, effective and 
independent audit service.
Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities
Our statutory Auditors are responsible for forming an 
independent opinion on the ﬁ nancial statements of the Group 
as a whole and on the ﬁ nancial statements of Imperial Tobacco 
Group PLC as presented by the Directors, on other elements 
of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation 
or regulation and for reporting their opinion to members 
(page 95).
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) have been the Company’s 
Auditors since its demerger in 1996. The Audit Committee, 
following a review during the year, remains satisﬁ ed with the 
effectiveness and independence of PwC. It has not, therefore, 
considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to 
tender. In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group 
Audit Partner is required to rotate after a maximum of ﬁ ve years 
(seven years for subsidiary companies). The Audit Committee 
discusses engagement partner rotation with PwC on a regular 
basis and a succession plan is in place for David Charles to be 
replaced in 2013 at his normal rotation date after ﬁ ve years in 
the role. The Audit Committee will give further consideration 
during the incoming engagement partner’s term to the 
application of the audit tendering provision of the recently 
published 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Audit Committee considers that for a major international 
group these matters must be well planned to ensure that the 
Group complies with best practice corporate governance as 
well as ensuring the Group receives a high quality, efﬁ cient and 
effective external audit service. There are no contractual or 
similar obligations restricting the Group’s choice of auditors.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information 
to Auditors
Each of the Directors in ofﬁ ce at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report and Accounts conﬁ rms that:
 – so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
(that is, information needed by the Company’s Auditors in 
connection with preparing their report) of which the 
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and 
 – each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
The Board accepted at its October 2012 meeting the 
Committee’s recommendation to put a resolution to reappoint 
PwC as Auditors to the Company to shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
70
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Governance Report
Application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Board applied all of the principles and provisions of the 
June 2010 Code throughout the year ended 30 September 
2012 and is reviewing the provisions of the revised code 
published in September 2012 which will apply to the Group 
from 1 October 2012.
Operation of the Board
Our Board and Board Committee meetings encourage direct, 
robust and constructive challenge and debate.
In order to deliver our strategy, enhance shareholder value and 
ensure our long-term sustainability, we believe it is vital that 
our Directors have the right mix and diversity of backgrounds 
and experiences. 
To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues 
and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and 
its Committees, our Chairman and Committee chairmen 
communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other 
members of the Operating Executive.
Matters Reserved for the Board
There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively 
by the Board and on which it must make the ﬁ nal decision. 
These include approval of ﬁ nancial statements; the Group’s 
business strategy; the annual capital expenditure plan; major 
capital projects; major changes to the Group’s management 
and control structure; material investments or disposals; risk 
management strategy; sustainability and environmental policies; 
the appointment or removal of Directors and the Company 
Secretary; and treasury policies.
Board Committees
Each standing Board Committee has speciﬁ c written terms of 
reference issued by the Board and adopted by Committee. 
These are available on our website. All Committee chairmen 
report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees at the 
next meeting of the Board and the minutes of the Committee 
meetings are included in the papers distributed to all Board 
members in advance of the next Board meeting.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly deﬁ ned and 
separate responsibilities, whilst retaining a close working 
relationship. They meet regularly between Board meetings to 
ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate 
swift decision making. They are responsible to our shareholders 
for the successful delivery of our strategy.
Through the effective leadership of the Board, our Chairman 
ensures all Directors are able to contribute to discussions 
such that we fully beneﬁ t from their wide range of skills 
and experience. The Chairman, supported by our Senior 
Independent Director, is responsible for effective communication 
with our shareholders and ensuring they can raise any concerns. 
Our Chief Executive, supported by the Operating Executive, is 
responsible for developing our strategy and presenting it to the 
Board, as well as the successful implementation of the agreed 
strategy and the day-to-day operational leadership of the Group.
There were no signiﬁ cant changes to the Chairman’s external 
commitments during the year.
Non-Executive Directors
We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to 
our ongoing success. Our Non-Executive Directors bring a 
diverse range of business and ﬁ nancial expertise to the Board, 
which complements and supplements the experiences of 
the Executive Directors. This broad range of expertise and 
experience enables them to evaluate information provided 
and constructively challenge management’s viewpoints 
and assumptions.
Our Non-Executive Directors also play a key role in corporate 
accountability and governance through their membership of 
the Board’s Committees. The membership and remit of each 
Committee are considered on pages 66 to 68 and page 77. 
The open atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our 
Non-Executive Directors to use their judgement, experience 
and independence to critically review and, where appropriate, 
challenge strategies proposed by management. This ensures 
the further development of our business, effective use of our 
resources and that we maintain our high standards of conduct.
Following the annual Board evaluation, page 71, the Board 
concluded at its meeting in September 2012 that all our 
Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively and 
constructively to Board debate, to demonstrate commitment 
to their role, to objectively challenge and robustly question 
management and at all times to have the best interests of our 
shareholders in mind.
We, therefore, conﬁ rm that, with the exception of our Chairman 
who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, 
our Non-Executive Directors remain independent as deﬁ ned in 
the Code.
Conﬂ icts of Interest
The Directors are required to avoid situations where they 
have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conﬂ icts, 
or possibly may conﬂ ict, with the Company’s interests. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the 
Articles of Association of the Company allow the Board to 
authorise potential conﬂ icts of interest that may arise and to 
impose such limits or conditions as it thinks ﬁ t. 
Directors are required to give notice of any such potential 
situational and/or transactional conﬂ icts which are considered 
at the following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, 
situational conﬂ icts are authorised. We do not allow any Director 
to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their 
own conﬂ icts. 
The Board has considered and authorised a number of 
situations all of which relate to the holding of external 
directorships and have been entered in our Conﬂ icts Register. 
No actual conﬂ icts have been identiﬁ ed. The Board considers 
that these procedures operate effectively.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting 
in September 2012 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations 
entered in the Conﬂ icts Register. 
In order to underpin his independence we entered into an 
agreement with Berge Setrakian, Non-Executive Director, 
in June 2008 to minimise the risk of any conﬂ ict of interest 
between Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP , of which he was a partner, and 
the Company. This agreement remained in full force and effect 
until he left the partnership in May 2012. In July 2012 a similar 
agreement was entered into in respect of DLA Piper LLP (US) 
where he is now a partner, which remains in full force and effect.  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 71
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board conﬁ rms Berge Setrakian’s compliance with the 
terms of these agreements and, therefore, his continued 
independence.
Following the annual review the Board is satisﬁ ed that the 
independence of those Directors who have other external board 
appointments or relationships has not been compromised.
Outside Appointments
Non-Executive Directors may serve on a number of other 
boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite 
commitment to discharge effectively their duties. The Chairman 
and the Nominations Committee review the extent of 
Non-Executive Directors’ other interests throughout the year. 
The Board is satisﬁ ed that the Chairman and each of the 
Non-Executive Directors commit sufﬁ cient time to their duties 
in relation to the Company and the Non-Executive Directors 
have also conﬁ rmed that they have sufﬁ cient time to fulﬁ l their 
respective obligations to the Company.
The Board believes, in principle, in Executive Directors and 
members of the Operating Executive accepting non-executive 
directorships of other companies in order to widen their 
experience and knowledge for the beneﬁ t of the Company. 
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, 
Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive 
are permitted to accept one external non-executive board 
appointment and to retain any fees received from such 
appointment. 
Information and Training
The Company is committed to the continuing development of 
Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and 
develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business 
and the markets in which Group companies operate.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance. 
The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely 
information, including detailed ﬁ nancial information, to enable 
Directors to discharge their responsibilities, and the Committees 
are provided with sufﬁ cient resources to undertake their duties. 
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other 
employees for all governance and regulatory matters. 
Independent professional advice is also available to Directors 
in appropriate circumstances, at the Company’s expense.
Following their appointment to the Board, new Directors are 
briefed on the duties they owe to the Company as Directors. 
Tailored induction programmes are arranged which include 
industry-speciﬁ c training, including visits to the Group’s 
businesses and meetings with senior management, as 
appropriate. They are briefed on internal controls at head ofﬁ ce 
and business unit level and are advised of the legal and other 
duties they have as Directors of a listed company as well as on 
relevant Company policies and governance-related matters.
Other than the induction and brieﬁ ng programme, no training 
needs were identiﬁ ed in 2012, although ongoing training is 
available to all Directors to meet their individual needs. 
We provide regular brieﬁ ngs to Directors on relevant issues 
such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate 
governance developments. 
Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received 
brieﬁ ngs from our external Auditors and remuneration advisor 
respectively to ensure they remain up-to-date with current 
regulations and developments.
Performance Evaluation
During the year the Board, assisted by an independent 
consultant, EquityCommunications Ltd, who provided no other 
services to the Group, reviewed its performance, that of its 
Committees and individual Directors. The feedback, obtained 
through detailed questionnaires, was collated into a report which 
was presented to the Board and used as the basis for one-to-
one discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
Our Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to 
consider the performance of the Chairman. 
The Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors 
to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the 
Executive Directors. 
The evaluation did not identify any signiﬁ cant areas for 
concern nor any requirement to provide extra training for our 
Directors and, consequently, the Board and its Committees 
are satisﬁ ed they are operating and performing effectively. 
The evaluation also conﬁ rmed that all our Directors have 
sufﬁ cient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute 
effectively to our Board and its Committees and that it remains 
appropriately constituted.
The main areas identiﬁ ed for review were the ongoing 
succession plans for Directors approaching retirement, the 
future balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
enhancing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet 
with the wider management team and ensuring the revised risk 
and assurance processes are embedded in the organisation 
and operate effectively. 
We have addressed the issues identiﬁ ed in the 2011 Board 
evaluation and in line with the Board’s succession plans, a 
number of Directors were appointed during the year and the 
Group undertook a review of its remuneration policies to ensure 
they continue to incentivise the delivery of its strategy and 
further align performance to results. More details of the review 
are contained in our Remuneration Report on page 77.
Insurance 
We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance 
cover in respect of Directors’ and Ofﬁ cers’ liabilities. 
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party 
indemnity arrangements for the beneﬁ t of all its Directors, in a 
form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Act. 
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up to 
the date of this Report. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
72
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Governance Report continued
Dialogue with our Investors 
We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent 
communications which allow our shareholders to understand 
how we see our prospects and the market environments in 
which we operate.
We maintain an active engagement with our key ﬁ nancial 
audiences including institutional shareholders and sell side 
analysts as well as potential shareholders. During the year there 
were regular presentations to and meetings with institutional 
investors in the UK, Europe, Asia, Canada and the US to 
communicate our sales growth strategy and progress and 
answer questions from our investors. Throughout the year our 
senior management team present at industry conferences, 
organised by investment banks for their institutional investor 
base. Our Director of Investor Communications manages the 
interaction with these audiences with regular presentations 
taking place during the year. We also undertake a regular 
communication programme with potential shareholders.
The primary means of communication with the majority of our 
shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly 
Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 
Statements and Trading Updates. These are supported by a 
combination of presentations, conference calls, one-to-one 
meetings and investor meetings in the UK, Europe and America. 
We have also attended numerous investor conferences, where 
we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders 
and potential shareholders.
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual 
Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their 
proxy votes, the documents are made available to them more 
than 20 working days prior to the meeting.
We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy 
votes either electronically or in paper format. We also offer them 
the facility to abstain.
At the AGM, our Chairman and Chief Executive give 
presentations on our performance and current business 
activities and all Directors make themselves available to meet 
shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business.
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings 
separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all 
resolutions are put to a poll. At the AGM the number of proxy 
votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are 
displayed. Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy 
votes and the ﬁ nal results published through a Regulatory 
Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
At our 2012 AGM we received votes representing approximately 
77 per cent of our issued share capital (excluding shares held 
in treasury).
Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 30 January 2013. 
Full details are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on 
our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
Share Capital
Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the Financial 
Statements (page 131). All shares other than those held in 
treasury are freely transferable and rank pari passu for voting 
and dividend rights. 
At our AGM on 1 February 2012 shareholder authority for the 
buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence 
each was obtained. 
As at 30 September 2012 we held 77,802,200 of our ordinary 
shares in treasury, which represent 7.3 per cent of issued share 
capital and have an aggregate nominal value of £7,780,000. 
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 
shares reserve within our proﬁ t and loss account reserve and 
they represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. 
Treasury shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
At 30 October 2012 we had been notiﬁ ed of the following 
interests in 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
Number of 
ordinary shares 
(millions)
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital 
Invesco Limited 61 6.03
1
BlackRock 53 5.25
2
Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Limited 42 4.17
1
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04
2
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 41 3.99
1
1 Direct holding.
2 Indirect holding.
Geographical analysis of investors 
(as at 30 September 2012)
 UK 54%
 United States 31%
 Japan 2%
 Rest of Europe 10%
 Rest of the World 3%
Shareholder structure (as at 30 September 2012)
 Institutions – UK 46%
 Institutions – RoW 40%
 Employees 1%
 Retail investors 2%
 Other 11% Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 73
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We have not received notiﬁ cation that any other person holds 
3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any 
connected persons are shown on page 92. Other than as 
disclosed on page 73, there are no agreements between 
the Company and its Directors or employees providing 
for compensation for loss of ofﬁ ce or employment due to 
a takeover.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is 
given in note 6 to the Financial Statements (page 108) and in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Financial Results and Dividends
We include a review of our operational and ﬁ nancial 
performance, current position and future developments in 
our Directors’ Report: Strategy, Risks, Performance and 
Governance sections on pages 8 to 76.
The proﬁ t attributable to equity holders of the Company for the 
ﬁ nancial year was £678 million, as shown in our consolidated 
income statement on page 96. Note 3 to the Financial 
Statements gives an analysis of revenue and proﬁ t from 
operations (page 106). 
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet on page 98 and the related Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows:
£ million 2012 2011
Ordinary Shares
Interim paid, 31.7p per share 
(2011: 28.1p) 314 284
Proposed ﬁ nal, 73.9p per share 
(2011: 67.0p) 729 674
Total ordinary dividends, 105.6p 
(2011: 95.1p) 1,043 958
The ﬁ nal dividend, if approved, will be paid on 18 February 2013 
to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 18 January 2013. The associated ex dividend 
date will be 16 January 2013. We paid an interim dividend on 
17 August 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 20 July 2012.
Relations with Other Stakeholders
Charitable and Political Donations
We continue to support the communities in which we operate 
by allocating £3.1 million (2011: £3.1 million) to partnership 
investment. From this ﬁ gure, we have donated £0.2 million 
(2011: £0.2 million) to UK registered charities operating in the 
UK, £0.3 million (2011: £0.3 million) to UK registered charities 
operating abroad and £1.6 million (2011: £1.3 million) through 
the UK Charities Aid Foundation to charities based overseas.
No political donations were made to EU political parties, 
organisations or candidates (2011: Nil).
Creditor Payment Policy
Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority of 
our trade creditors is to follow the Prompt Payment Code 
sponsored by the Department for Business, Innovation and 
Skills (copies are available from the Prompt Payment Code 
website at www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk). For other 
suppliers, our policy is to:
 – agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction;
 – ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of 
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts; and
 – pay in accordance with our contractual and other legal 
obligations.
This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue 
and capital supplies of goods and services without exception. 
Wherever possible, UK subsidiaries follow the same policy 
and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar 
policies by applying local best practices.
The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 
2012 was equivalent to 37 days (2011: 40 days) of trade 
purchases.
Pension Fund
Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is 
not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board 
of which consists of ﬁ ve directors nominated by the Company, 
one director chosen by employees and two by current and 
deferred pensioners. This trustee company looks after the 
assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those 
of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers. 
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with 
the fund’s rules and for no other purpose. Further details are 
contained in our Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93.
Signiﬁ cant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or 
Terminate on Change of Control
The following agreements, summarised below, are those which 
we consider to be signiﬁ cant to the Group as a whole and which 
contain provisions giving the other party a speciﬁ c right to 
terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following 
a takeover bid.
The Group has four credit facility agreements that provide, 
unless the Lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of 
associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than 
50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, 
the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation 
made by them under the respective facility agreement and the 
total commitments under that facility agreement will be 
immediately cancelled.
The four credit agreements are:
 – a credit facilities agreement dated 16 December 2010 
under which certain banks and ﬁ nancial institutions made 
available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial 
Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited committed credit 
facilities across three tranches of $632 million, £600 million 
and €1,785 million and uncommitted credit facilities in a 
maximum amount of £800 million, for a period of ﬁ ve years;  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
74
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Governance Report continued
 – a letter of credit facility agreement dated 2 March 2011 under 
which certain banks and ﬁ nancial institutions made available 
to Imperial Tobacco Limited a Letter of Credit in a maximum 
amount of £232.8 million until 31 August 2016; 
 – a credit facility agreement dated 16 November 2011 under 
which certain banks and ﬁ nancial institutions made available 
to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC a committed credit facility 
of €300 million for a period of two years; and
 – a credit facility agreement dated 15 August 2012 under 
which certain banks and ﬁ nancial institutions made available 
to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco 
Enterprise Finance Limited a committed credit facility of 
£400 million for a period of two years. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC (the Issuer) has issued bonds 
under the Euro Medium Term Notes Debt Issuance Programme 
(as noted below). The Company acted as guarantor. The ﬁ nal 
terms of this series of notes contain change of control provisions 
under which the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier 
exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the 
Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s option, purchase that note at 
its nominal value if: (a) any person, persons acting in concert or 
on behalf of any such person(s) becomes interested in: (i) more 
than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital 
of the Company; or (ii) such number of shares in the capital of 
the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights 
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company; 
and (b) as a result of the change of control, there is either: (i) a 
reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the 
investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, 
reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during 
the change of control period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ nal terms; or (ii) to 
the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change 
of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit 
rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result 
of the change of control.
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows:
 – 15 September 2008 £600,000,000 8.125 per cent 
guaranteed notes due 2024; 
 – 15 September 2008 €750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2014;
 – 17 February 2009 £1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2022; 
 – 17 February 2009 €1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent 
guaranteed notes due 2016;
 – 24 June 2009 £500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2019;
 – 5 July 2011 €850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2018; 
 – 26 September 2011 £500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2026; and
 – 2 December 2011 €750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2019.
Update on Ongoing Enquiries
German Investigations
Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in 
January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations 
by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during 
a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group in 
May 2002. A Board Committee established in 2003 remains 
in place to monitor the progress of the investigations and the 
Group’s responses on behalf of the Board. 
Between 2005 and 2007, the investigations against all but ﬁ ve 
of the individuals were terminated, either for lack of evidence or 
on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities. 
Settlement was made at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco 
Group of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities 
being investigated. 
In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were brought 
against 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma 
employee. Proceedings against the former Reemstma employee 
were terminated on terms agreed by the former employee with 
the authorities.
In November 2006, charges relating to violations of the German 
foreign trade act were brought against four other former 
Reemtsma employees. The individuals pleaded guilty and 
ﬁ nancial penalties were ordered against them and Reemtsma. 
These were paid at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group. 
Ofﬁ ce of Fair Trading
As previously reported, on 15 April 2010 the UK Ofﬁ ce of Fair 
Trading (OFT) reached a decision ﬁ nding that Imperial Tobacco 
Group and Gallaher had separately engaged in unlawful 
practices with 10 tobacco retailers in breach of Chapter I 
of the Competition Act 1998. The OFT imposed total ﬁ nes 
of £225 million on the parties involved, including a ﬁ ne of 
£112.3 million on Imperial Tobacco Group.
Imperial Tobacco Group lodged an appeal with the Competition 
Appeal Tribunal (CAT) on 15 June 2010 against the OFT’s 
ﬁ ndings of infringement and the level of the ﬁ ne. Five retailers 
(Asda, the Co-operative Group, Morrisons (together with 
Safeway) and Shell) also appealed against the decision and 
the ﬁ nes imposed on them by the OFT.
The CAT heard the appeals between September and November 
2011. On 12 December 2011, following an admission from the 
OFT that it could no longer defend the ﬁ ndings in the decision, 
the CAT upheld the appeals and quashed the ﬁ ndings of 
infringement and the ﬁ nes imposed on Imperial Tobacco Group 
and the other appellants.
The OFT decided not to appeal against the CAT’s judgment 
and subsequently announced that it would not reopen its 
investigation. Accordingly Imperial Tobacco Group is no longer 
liable to pay the ﬁ ne. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 75
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Update on Tobacco Related Litigation
In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related 
claims has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11. Ten of these claims 
are subject to dismissal motions. The other claim is inactive. 
The dismissal motion in respect of one claimant was heard by 
the Dublin High Court in 2006. In April 2007, the court ruled 
that this claim should be dismissed. This Decision has been 
appealed and the dismissal motions in respect of the nine other 
active claims have been stayed pending the appeal. The hearing 
of the appeal was listed for mention before the Supreme Court 
on 11 July 2012. In advance of the hearing, the plaintiff’s lawyers 
issued a motion to come off the record that is returnable on 
5 November 2012. At the hearing on 11 July, the Chief Justice 
put the appeal in for mention on 8 November 2012 to allow for 
the hearing of the motion that the plaintiff’s lawyers come off 
the record and to give the plaintiff the opportunity to obtain new 
representation if he wishes to do so.
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are 
currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative 
Court (the CADAN) on behalf of the Regional Government of 
Andalucia (the Junta) for reimbursement of hospitalisation 
expenses allegedly incurred in treating smokers. The claim 
was served on Altadis in July 2009. In May 2010 preliminary 
objections were ﬁ led by Altadis and the other tobacco company 
defendants. These were rejected by the court in May 2011. 
The CADAN issued a further decision in July 2012 ordering 
the Junta to provide the co-defendants with a full set of 
the documentation which was attached to the claim. 
The co-defendants have not yet received a copy of the 
documentation and are awaiting a decision from the CADAN 
on whether the Junta complied with the order and how this 
case should proceed. 
We are currently facing two claims in Italy. One against Logista 
which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction 
and the admission of evidence. This challenge was heard in 
2006 but judgment is still awaited. The other against Imperial 
Tobacco Italia S.r.l. is a claim recently ﬁ led in Sicily for €5,000 
relating to damage allegedly caused by a humidifying stone. 
Imperial Tobacco Italia S.r.l. ﬁ led its defence at a hearing on 
26 September 2012. The claimant has been ordered to ﬁ le 
its rebuttal evidence at the next hearing on 26 January 2013.
Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 
2007, we are currently facing one claim brought by an 
individual in the United States. A motion for summary judgment 
was ﬁ led by Commonwealth Brands in October 2005 and 
remains pending.
We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued 
legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco 
companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical 
care to individuals. No Imperial Tobacco Group company has 
been served with any court documents in relation to this claim. 
We understand that the Ministry of Health sought a six month 
stay of proceedings at a hearing on 11 December 2010 and has 
not applied for the case to be reopened following the expiry of 
that stay. The Ministry of Health may still apply to reopen the 
case but we are not aware that it intends to do so.
In France, we are facing pre-action summary proceedings 
brought by an individual who, according to his summons, later 
intends to seek an undisclosed level of compensation for the 
emotional damage he is alleged to have suffered for the loss 
of his former partner who, it is alleged, smoked 3 packets of 
Gauloises cigarettes a day for 20 years and died of lung cancer 
in April 2012. The claimant alleges that tobacco leaves absorb 
Polonium 210, a radioactive element, which the claimant 
alleges passes into the lungs of smokers causing them to be 
radioactively contaminated, and has asked a court in Paris 
to appoint an expert to analyse the alleged radioactivity of 
Polonium 210 in Gauloises cigarettes; examine his former 
partner’s medical records; and assess whether there is a 
causal link between any radioactivity in the cigarettes and 
his former partner’s alleged lung cancer. An initial hearing has 
been scheduled for 16 November 2012.
To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of 
any claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial 
Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries. Imperial Tobacco has been 
advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the 
legal proceedings set out above. We will continue to vigorously 
contest all such litigation against us.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the 
parent Company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁ nancial 
statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group ﬁ nancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the parent 
Company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom GAAP (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
Applicable Law). Under company law, the Directors must not 
approve the ﬁ nancial statements unless they are satisﬁ ed that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the parent Company and of the proﬁ t or loss of the Group 
for that period. In preparing these ﬁ nancial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group and parent Company ﬁ nancial statements 
respectively; and
 – prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
76
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Governance Report continued
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁ nancial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the 
Group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁ nancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
on page 62, conﬁ rms that, to the best of their knowledge:
 – the Group ﬁ nancial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and 
proﬁ t of the Group; and
 – the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
John Downing
30 October 2012
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 77
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Rewarding
performance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee
“ Within a demanding, 
competitive 
international 
environment we want 
our employees to be 
fairly compensated and 
incentivised to deliver 
on our strategy.”
Our remuneration policy seeks to achieve a balance between the interests of 
our employees and long-term shareholders. Executive Director and senior 
management rewards are, therefore, weighted towards performance related 
elements with targets incentivising the delivery of our strategy.
During the ﬁ nancial year the Remuneration Committee has undertaken 
a review of the overall remuneration philosophy and policy of the Group. 
The review concluded that whilst our policy has served us well it could be 
enhanced to further support our strategy. The main changes are, therefore, 
to amend the performance criteria to better align our senior executives’ 
remuneration with our strategic focus on organic growth. With the exception 
of the proposed changes to the Share Matching Scheme and the Long 
Term Incentive Plan for which we are seeking shareholder approval at our 
forthcoming AGM, the Committee has, therefore, implemented the revised 
policy in respect of total remuneration, base salary and bonus structure for 
the ﬁ nancial year ending 30 September 2013. Full details of the revised 
policy are shown on page 84.
The Remuneration Committee’s full terms of reference are available on 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Members
Ken Burnett 
(appointed 31/1/12)
David Haines 
(appointed 26/4/12)
Pierre Jungels 
(retired 1/2/12)
Susan Murray
Berge Setrakian 
(appointed 31/1/12)
Mark Williamson
Malcolm Wyman 
(appointed 3/10/11)
Trevor Williams 
(Secretary)
Achievements for 2012
 – A review of the overall 
remuneration philosophy of 
the Group to further align 
remuneration with the interests 
of our long-term shareholders 
and our sales growth strategy.
 – Consideration of base salary and 
bonus targets.
 – Reviewing the structure of the 
remuneration packages of a 
number of senior appointments.
 – Considering the achievement 
of performance criteria for the 
annual bonus and share plans 
and approving vesting levels.
 – Consideration of shareholders’ 
feedback from the 2012 AGM.
2013 Objectives
 – Consult with shareholders in 
relation to proposed changes 
to current share plans.
 – Ensure the Group is well placed 
to meet any requirements 
emanating from the Department 
for Business, Innovation and 
Skills consultation on revised 
remuneration reporting 
regulations.
 – Ensure that senior executives 
remain appropriately 
compensated and incentivised 
to deliver our strategy.
Overview Michael Herlihy
Chairman Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
78
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Activities of the Committee
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for 
executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility 
to the Committee. 
The Committee’s principal function is to determine the 
Company’s overall remuneration policy, described in more detail 
below, together with the speciﬁ c remuneration package, 
including service contracts and pension arrangements, for each 
Executive Director and our most senior executives.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board in respect of our Chairman’s fees, setting 
targets for the performance related elements of remuneration 
packages, oversight of our overall policy for senior management 
remuneration and of our employee share plans.
The Remuneration Committee held seven meetings during the 
ﬁ nancial year. In addition to the achievements on page 77, 
the Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities include:
 – ensuring remuneration arrangements support our strategy, 
align with our values and drive performance;
 – maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate 
to the business environment of the countries in which we 
operate thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high 
calibre individuals;
 – aligning senior executives’ remuneration with the interests 
of long-term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration 
is fair but not excessive; and
 – the output from the evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
Remuneration Committee, which conﬁ rmed the Committee 
continues to operate effectively.
We have prepared this Report in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and Statutory Instrument 
2008/410 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations). 
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
In this Report we describe how the principles of good 
governance relating to directors’ remuneration, as set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), are applied 
in practice. The Remuneration Committee conﬁ rms that 
throughout the ﬁ nancial year the Company has complied 
with these governance rules and best practice provisions. 
The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders 
on the audited information within this Report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been 
prepared in accordance with the Act. The Auditors’ opinion is 
set out on page 95 and we have clearly marked the audited 
sections of the Report.
Membership and Advice
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors, which 
we see as fundamental in ensuring Executive Directors’ 
and senior executives’ remuneration is set by people who 
are independent and have no personal ﬁ nancial interest, 
other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed. 
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each 
Committee meeting allows the members to meet without 
any Executive Director or other manager being present. 
Mr I J G Napier (Company Chairman), Mrs A J Cooper 
(Chief Executive), Mr R Dyrbus (Finance Director) and 
Mr J M Downing (Company Secretary) were consulted and 
invited to attend where appropriate. Mr T M Williams (Deputy 
Company Secretary) also attended each meeting as secretary 
to the Committee.
The Group Head of Compensation and Beneﬁ ts also attended 
and provided internal support and advice on market and 
regulatory developments in remuneration practice and our 
employee share plans. His attendance ensured the Committee 
was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, 
which it then takes into account when determining the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors.
No-one is allowed to participate in any matter directly 
concerning the details of their own remuneration or conditions 
of service. 
Aon Hewitt Limited is the Committee’s principal external adviser 
and reviews our remuneration principles and practices against 
corporate governance best practice and helps us adhere to 
our Remuneration Policy. Aon Hewitt Limited is a signatory to 
the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Advisers. Aon Hewitt 
Limited also presented a review of developments in UK 
corporate governance to keep Committee members up-to-date 
with new developments and evolving best practice. 
Aon Hewitt Limited assisted the Group with employee 
engagement surveys and acts as its insurance broker. 
The Committee is, however, satisﬁ ed that the provision by Aon 
Hewitt Limited of those other services in no way compromises 
its position as the Committee’s independent advisers.
The Committee also retained Kepler Associates to assist it with 
the review of the overall remuneration philosophy of the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Watson is 
used for benchmarking purposes to ensure the consistent 
application of our Remuneration Policy. 
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP and Ashurst LLP provide services 
to the Committee as and when required. They both provide 
other legal services to the Group. Allen & Overy is also retained 
by the Company to provide legal advice on our employee 
share plans. 
The Company retains Alithos Limited to undertake total 
shareholder return (TSR) calculations and provide advice on 
all TSR related matters. Alithos Limited provides no other 
services for the Group.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), our Auditors, perform 
agreed upon procedures on earnings per share (EPS) 
calculations used in relation to our employee share plans’ 
performance criteria.  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 79
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Policy and Practice for 
Financial Year Ended 30 September 2012 
Executive Policy and Practice
Our Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, retain and 
motivate a high quality pool of talented employees at all 
levels who are incentivised to deliver our corporate strategy 
through clear links between reward and performance without 
encouraging them to take undue risks. 
 We operate in a highly competitive international environment 
and continue to assign employees internationally to achieve the 
optimum balance of experience within the Group and to facilitate 
employee development.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees 
at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the 
annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company 
through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of 
eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
We consider it critical to align the remuneration package for 
Executive Directors and our most senior executives with the 
Group’s strategy and risk appetite. We, therefore, believe our 
Executive Directors’ remuneration should be competitive but 
not excessive and, to incentivise them to maximise individual, 
functional and corporate performance, that they should be able 
to earn more from their performance related pay than from their 
ﬁ xed pay. Our policy for the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2012 
was to position ﬁ xed elements of remuneration around the 
median paid by our comparator group of companies, which 
was the FTSE 50 with secondary reference to the FTSE 30 
both excluding companies in the ﬁ nancial and pharmaceutical 
sectors. As further discussed in the Revised Remuneration 
Policy and Practice section on page 84 the Committee reviewed 
this during the year and total remuneration is now assessed 
against a comparator group of companies from FTSE size 
peers (including pharmaceutical companies) and international 
sector peers.
Our policy supported our strategy by linking the major elements 
of remuneration to performance criteria aligned with our KPIs. 
These elements included both short-term and long-term 
incentives, the main elements being annual bonus, Share 
Matching Scheme (SMS) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).
To ensure our Remuneration Policy is ﬁ rmly linked to our 
strategy and risk management, bonus and employee share plan 
targets are set to reﬂ ect key business imperatives, for example 
volume growth, cash conversion and growth in net revenue, 
all of which are used to measure strategy as discussed on page 
11. This link is supported by our share ownership guidelines.
Executive Directors are remunerated in respect of their executive 
appointment under the terms of their service agreement and 
receive no additional fees for serving as Directors.
Share Interests and Incentives
Whilst placing signiﬁ cant weight on our annual performance, 
our overall remuneration package aligns the long-term interests 
of our shareholders and other stakeholders with those of 
management by incentivising the growth in the value of the 
business over the long-term. To support this alignment, we 
have adopted a set of share ownership guidelines as we believe 
Executive Directors and other senior managers should be 
encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal 
wealth in our shares.
Over a period of ﬁ ve years from appointment Executive Directors 
are required to build a holding in the Group’s shares to a 
minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary. 
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level 
equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent 
upon grade. Failure to meet the minimum shareholding 
requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility 
for LTIP awards. All Executive Directors, with the exception of 
Mr Phillips who was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012, 
currently exceed their required shareholding.
We also support this alignment by linking a signiﬁ cant portion 
of Executive Directors’ and senior management’s remuneration 
to shares. The value of their overall remuneration is, therefore, 
heavily dependent on the performance of our share price.
Our long-term incentives consist of two employee share plans: 
the SMS and the LTIP .
Base Salary
We believe there should be a cohesive remuneration structure 
across the Group. Our approach for all employees, including 
Executive Directors, is, therefore, to set remuneration that 
takes account of: market practice; economic conditions; 
the performance of the Group, teams and the individual; 
collective agreements that may apply; and any legal or 
regulatory requirements. In setting the remuneration policy 
and levels for executives, the Committee considers the 
remuneration arrangements and employment conditions of 
the wider employee population within the Group.
Base salaries are reviewed annually following detailed 
consideration of a number of factors including individual 
responsibilities, performance and the market rate for the 
position. Our policy for the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2012 
was to set base pay within a range around the market median 
of the comparator group after consideration of market data 
provided by Towers Watson. Consideration is given to the effect 
an amendment to an individual’s base salary would have on 
their total remuneration package. Base salary is the only element 
of the package used to determine pensionable earnings. 
This year’s review was again conducted in the context of the 
need to apply appropriate restraint in pay levels whilst also being 
cognisant of what is a highly competitive international market for 
executive talent.  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
80
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Bonus
Our shareholders and other stakeholders place signiﬁ cant weight on our annual performance. We, therefore, think it is appropriate 
to have a major element of Executive Directors’ remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Group’s annual objectives 
and enhancing performance against key ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial targets. 
For the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2012 the potential maximum bonus was 200 per cent of base salary for the 
Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 125 per cent for the Corporate Affairs Director (pro rata from date 
of appointment).
Bonus targets constituted stretching EPS (50 per cent of maximum), net revenue (20 per cent of maximum), volume growth 
(12.5 per cent of maximum), cash conversion (7.5 per cent of maximum) and non-ﬁ nancial metrics (10 per cent of maximum). 
During the year we delivered adjusted EPS of 201.0 pence resulting in 58 per cent of this element vesting. We consider the other 
targets to be commercially conﬁ dential, however, they were met in part, with 44.4 per cent of these elements vesting overall.
Any annual bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary is paid in cash and is eligible for investment in our SMS (SMS Eligible 
Bonus). Any bonus payable in excess of this level is used to purchase shares in the Company which the Director is required to retain 
for a minimum of three years. These shares are not eligible for investment in the SMS. 
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to claw back during the three years following the 
end of the ﬁ nancial year in which they are earned. Claw back would be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee 
or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed. 
Share Matching Scheme
The purpose of the SMS is to encourage the Group’s senior managers, including Executive Directors, to hold shares in the 
Company. Under the SMS, at the discretion of the Committee, senior managers are invited to invest any proportion of their SMS 
Eligible Bonus in our shares. If those shares are held in an employee nominee facility for three years and the participant remains 
an employee within the Group, they will be matched on a one-for-one basis. For our Executive Directors and our most senior 
managers we apply a performance criterion, as shown below, measurement of which is based on the same protocol as that 
applying to the LTIP . There is no opportunity to re-test. Employees can exercise their vote in respect of shares held in the employee 
nominee facility by giving written instructions to the nominee.
Share Matching Scheme Vesting Scale
EPS Growth 
Award vesting 
2013
Awards vesting 
2014 and 2015
Below Inﬂ ation plus 3 per cent per annum Zero Zero
At Inﬂ ation plus 3 per cent per annum 100% 50%
At Inﬂ ation plus 6 per cent or more per annum 100%
1
 1 Sliding scale applies for performance between inﬂ ation plus 3 per cent and inﬂ ation plus 6 per cent.
Under the rules of the SMS, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired the performance period would end on the date 
of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable 
performance criterion.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The LTIP is a conditional award of shares to Executive Directors and other senior management. These awards vest three years after 
grant dependent upon satisfaction of performance criteria over the period. All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee and no employee has a right to receive an award. Awards are equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief 
Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 125 per cent for the Corporate Affairs Director, with awards at lower levels for 
other senior managers.
Current Structure
The performance criteria for all awards is split into three elements which operate independently and can vest regardless of the 
performance in respect of the other elements.
The three elements are:
EPS Growth Element
The performance criterion for 50 per cent of the award is based on average growth in adjusted EPS based on an agreed protocol, 
after adjusting for inﬂ ation over the period of the award (Real Annual EPS Growth). At the Committee’s request, our Auditors perform 
agreed upon procedures on the calculations. If Real Annual EPS Growth equals 3 per cent, 12.5 per cent of this element vests. 
This element vests in full if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent. Between these two points this element vests 
on a straight-line basis. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 81
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
TSR Relative to FTSE Element
A further 25 per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on a sliding scale depending on TSR relative to the 
FTSE 100 Index. No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR ranks it in the top 50 per cent of the companies 
in this index. At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element vests. This element vests in full if the TSR ranks the 
Company in the top 25 per cent of the index. Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
TSR Relative to Bespoke Comparator Group Element
The ﬁ nal 25 per cent of the award has a performance criterion based on a sliding scale depending on TSR relative to a bespoke 
comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies. No vesting of this element occurs unless the Company’s TSR 
exceeds that of the bottom six companies in the bespoke comparator group. At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this 
element vests. This element vests in full if the TSR ranks the Company in the top three. Between these thresholds this element 
vests on a straight-line basis. The bespoke comparator group for the November 2011 award was: 
AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S
Diageo PLC Heineken N.V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. 
Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard S.A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC
To ensure our Executive Directors and senior managers are incentivised to drive our underlying performance and to ensure that 
corporate actions or ﬂ uctuations in exchange rates do not unduly affect comparative underlying performance, the Committee has 
agreed the following protocols:
 – if a company in the bespoke comparator group is delisted during the performance period it will be replaced from the start of the 
performance period, in an agreed order, by Lorillard Inc or Molson Coors Brewing Company;
 – if a company in the bespoke comparator group undertakes a rights issue during the performance period a cash neutral approach 
of selling a portion of rights to take up the balance of the rights (commonly known as ‘tail swallowing’) will be applied; and
 – to remove the undue inﬂ uence of exchange rate ﬂ uctuations, TSR calculations are measured in the currency in which each 
company is listed. 
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each bespoke comparator group 
company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices. Dividend payments are recognised on 
the date shares are declared ex dividend. The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved 
performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
During the year the Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, bespoke comparator group and vesting schedules 
for LTIP awards and decided to retain these performance criteria pending the introduction of the revised remuneration arrangements 
from 2013 onwards.
On vesting, a participant’s option to acquire the relevant number of shares may be exercised at any time up to the seventh 
anniversary of the date the award vested. The vesting process in a number of jurisdictions outside the UK is, however, amended 
to comply with local securities and tax legislation.
The performance period is set prior to the granting of each annual award and there is no opportunity to re-test if any of the 
performance criteria are not achieved. 
Under the rules of the LTIP , should the Company be acquired the performance periods for outstanding awards would end on the 
date of acquisition. Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable 
performance criteria.
The Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest.
LTIP Award Summary
Award as Percentage of Base Salary Performance Criteria 
200 for Chief Executive 50 per cent on EPS
150 for Finance Director 25 per cent on TSR against FTSE 100
125 for Corporate Affairs Director 25 per cent on TSR against comparator group Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
82
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Sharesave Plan
We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our 
long-term shareholders. Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity 
to join the Sharesave Plan. Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of 
our shares on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation. The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 
£250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or ﬁ ve years, and then exercise their option over shares. 
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
Executive Directors’ Pensions
Since 6 April 2006 (‘A’ day) the Group’s UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to 
maintain membership of or, in respect of new employees, join the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the Fund) or receive a salary 
supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Fund, the principal deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme operated by the Group. For members 
who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60. The Fund allows members 
to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age, usually after 32 years’ service. Pension 
commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted. 
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two-thirds 
of the member’s expected pension at retirement. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the member’s 
pre-commutation pension is payable. Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Pensions in payment increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an 
option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail 
Prices Index to a maximum of 15 per cent.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension beneﬁ ts in the Fund on a deﬁ ned contribution basis. 
Members who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 continue to accrue pension beneﬁ ts in the Fund on a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t basis, 
as set out above. All Executive Directors accrue pension beneﬁ ts on the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t basis.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) which abolished most of the detailed 
limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a simpliﬁ ed approach. Each member now has a Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA), £1.5 million for retirements in the tax year 2012/2013 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at 
retirement if the value of their pension beneﬁ t from all sources exceeds this amount. For any member whose total beneﬁ t value 
on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be 
subject to a large retrospective LTA charge. To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of Fund 
membership in respect of future service accrual in order to retain a ﬁ nal salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service. 
All Executive Directors earn beneﬁ ts on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60. Other than Mrs A J Cooper and 
Mr M R Phillips, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual as 
a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC. The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it 
may not be permissible, in some rare circumstances, for the full ﬁ nal salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be 
paid from the Fund. In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement 
beneﬁ t scheme (UURBS) so that the full accrued beneﬁ t may be provided.
Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and 
arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary. 
Mrs A J Cooper and Mr M R Phillips are also in receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension beneﬁ ts were 
limited by the effect of HMRC’s earnings cap. Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in 
respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards 
and for pensionable salary in excess of the Fund’s earnings cap, the standard Fund beneﬁ t is a pension at the lower accrual rate 
of 1/60ths with a 50 per cent spouse’s pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. 
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper and Mr Phillips each receive 
a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reﬂ ect the value of the beneﬁ ts of 
which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employer’s national insurance contributions. The supplements 
are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
The table on page 91 provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and gives details for each Executive Director of:
 – the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he/she had left service at the year end (any potential UURBS 
entitlement is included);
 – the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inﬂ ation in respect of the disclosure required under 
the Listing Rules; and
 – the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the latest Regulations.
None of the Executive Directors have made additional voluntary contributions. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 83
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Service Arrangements
 Executive Directors’ Service Agreements
The Company’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and there 
is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. The service 
agreement for Mr R Dyrbus was, however, entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from the Hanson Group in 
1996 and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in his service agreement reﬂ ect 
those arrangements.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors’ service agreements, 
except for those set out in the table below. The Executive Directors’ service agreements do contain provisions for payment in lieu 
of notice but these are at the Company’s sole discretion. The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure. Apart from the 
limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate losses 
are taken into account in every case. Our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the 
extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments would 
be paid monthly in arrears. 
Under the rules of our SMS and LTIP , outstanding awards vest if a participant leaves for speciﬁ ed reasons, including death, 
redundancy, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of 
control. In these circumstances a participant’s awards vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing. If, however, the termination of employment is not for one of 
the speciﬁ ed reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest a participant’s full awards lapse.
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control
Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 12 months’ notice Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference 
to beneﬁ ts receivable during the notice period
Mr M R Phillips
1
31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions
1 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012. 
Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments
We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneﬁ cial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company. 
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a 
FTSE 100 company. At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such 
non-executive directorship. 
Mrs A J Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the £50,000 fees received from this 
position in the ﬁ nancial year.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors
Within the £2.0 million limit set out in our Articles of Association, the Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees 
for our Non-Executive Directors and, after recommendation by the Remuneration Committee, our Chairman. In addition to base 
fees, additional fees are paid to our Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of our Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
These fees are reviewed, but not necessarily increased, on an annual basis after taking account of market practice, with reference 
to the same comparator group as used for Executive Directors, together with the need to attract and retain high calibre individuals.
With the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company, Non-Executive 
Directors receive no other material pay or beneﬁ ts. They are not eligible for bonuses, retirement beneﬁ ts or to participate in the 
Group’s employee share plans. 
To align Non-Executive Directors’ interests with those of our long-term shareholders, annually a proportion of their fees is applied 
to the purchase of shares in the Company, but not at a level that we believe could compromise their judgement or independence. 
These shares are held by a nominee during the term of their directorship.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time 
commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered ofﬁ ce during normal 
business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy the Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment were reviewed and 
conﬁ rmed by the Board on 31 January 2012. Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that 
the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, 
no compensation is payable on termination. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
84
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Revised Remuneration Policy and Practice 
The Committee continues to view its primary responsibility as ensuring that the Company can recruit, motivate and retain high 
quality management to run its business in the best interests of long-term shareholders. We believe that it is important to ensure that 
management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we do not 
pay more than is necessary.
Striking the right balance in ﬁ nding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement. 
In forming this judgement the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale and operating in a similar 
sector. Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most serve, 
to deﬁ ne a “playing ﬁ eld” within which an individual’s rewards need to be positioned. In determining that positioning, the primary 
factors taken into account will be the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individual’s role; their ability and experiences and 
fundamentally their performance.
The policy is to offer packages that are signiﬁ cantly weighted towards performance based elements with measures that reﬂ ect 
individual, functional and corporate performance. The aim is to set targets that are both stretching and achievable.
Following a review of Executive Directors’ Remuneration and consultation with the Group’s major shareholders and investor 
representative bodies, the Committee has revised the policy for Executive Directors as summarised below. The review concluded 
that the Group’s remuneration policy has served both it and its long-term shareholders well and, therefore, the revised policy does 
not change the overall structure of our remuneration packages; the balance of ﬁ xed and variable pay or the level of awards under 
the annual bonus, SMS or LTIP .
With the exception of the SMS and LTIP , the revised policy was introduced for the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2013. 
The proposed amendments to the SMS and LTIP will, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM, be introduced 
in the ﬁ nancial year commencing 1 October 2013. 
Base Salary
Base salaries for the ﬁ nancial year ending 30 September 2013 were reviewed by the Committee in September 2012 in accordance 
with the revised policy.
The Finance Director’s base salary was increased to £664,500 (from £654,500) and, having been appointed during the year, the 
Corporate Affairs Director’s base salary was not reviewed.
Upon the Chief Executive’s appointment the Committee decided to set her base salary at a level below that of her predecessor 
and that indicated by the Group’s remuneration policy, with the intention of increasing it over time, subject to performance. 
Having reviewed her performance during the year, including with reference to the 2012 Board evaluation, an increase above the 
3.0 per cent average for our wider UK management population was approved to continue to bring her base salary closer to that 
indicated by her performance, the Group’s size, international proﬁ le and the critical importance of the role. As a result, the Chief 
Executive’s base salary was increased by 7.0 per cent to £920,000 (from £860,000). 
The percentage increases for senior executives’ base salaries effective both 1 October 2011 and 1 October 2012 were generally 
lower than the average for other employees of the Group located in the same region.
Summary of Changes to Remuneration Policy and Practice
We have made the following changes to our method of determining pay levels:
 – the “playing ﬁ eld” for the value of total remuneration is assessed against two comparator groups, one being companies from 
FTSE size peers (including pharmaceutical companies) and the other being international sector peers; and
 – base salary to be assessed primarily against the same comparators as total remuneration and in addition secondary reference 
to FTSE 30 and FTSE 50 (both excluding ﬁ nancial sector companies)
We propose the following changes to our incentive plans:
 – increase weighting on revenue growth and reduce weighting on EPS;
 – set long-term ﬁ nancial targets (including EPS) on a nominal basis rather than relative to inﬂ ation; and
 – where the same performance criteria are used in the SMS and LTIP similar vesting schedules and targets will be used; dividends 
will be rolled up on vested SMS and LTIP shares and paid on vesting. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 85
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revised Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Element Objective Comparator Groups/
Award Level
Performance Criteria Performance Period
Total Remuneration Attract and retain high 
performing individuals 
and incentivise delivery 
of the Group’s strategy.
Competitive level against 
two comparator groups 
one being companies 
from FTSE size peers, the 
other being international 
sector peers.
Base Salary Attract and retain high 
performing individuals 
reﬂ ecting market value 
of role and executive’s 
skills, experience 
and performance.
As total remuneration 
with secondary reference 
to FTSE 30 and FTSE 50 
(both excluding ﬁ nancial 
sector companies). 
N/A N/A
Annual Bonus Incentivise delivery of 
Group objectives and 
enhance performance.
Maximum percentage 
of base salary. 
Chief Executive 200% 
Finance Director 150%
Corporate Affairs
Director 125%.
Cash element up to ﬁ rst 
100% of base salary
Criteria for 2013 
ﬁ nancial year: 
EPS targets (50% of 
maximum bonus);
Net Revenue growth 
targets (20% of 
maximum bonus);
Strategic/operational 
targets (15% of maximum 
bonus). For 2013 ﬁ nancial 
year will be a volume 
target; and
Non-ﬁ nancial targets 
(15% of maximum bonus)
All non-EPS elements 
have an EPS underpin.
1 year
Non-matchable 
deferred shares element: 
Any bonus paid over 
the limit set for the 
cash element.
3 year retention period
Share Matching 
Scheme
Incentivise Executive 
share ownership, growth 
in EPS and Net Revenue 
growth in line with the 
Group’s strategy.
May elect to invest 
some or all of gross 
cash element 
percentage of the 
annual bonus in shares. 
Maximum match 1:1.
Dividend roll-up on 
vested shares.
2 elements:
50% EPS growth
with ROIC underpin; 
and
50% Net Revenue 
growth with EPS 
underpin.
3 years
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Incentivise long-term 
delivery of Net Revenue 
growth, EPS and 
TSR and align with 
interests of long-term 
shareholders.
Percentage of 
base salary:
Chief Executive 200%, 
Finance Director 150%, 
Corporate Affairs 
Director 125%.
Dividend roll-up on 
vested shares.
3 elements:
25% EPS growth
with ROIC underpin;
25% Net Revenue 
growth with EPS 
underpin; and
50% TSR vs 
comparator group.
3 years Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
86
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Performance Criteria
When setting the performance criteria the Committee has taken account of the Group’s long-term plan and analysts’ forecasts. 
The proposed vesting schedules for the initial awards are set out below. For both the EPS and Net Revenue targets, the revised 
policy will use growth in absolute terms rather than relative to inﬂ ation. As an international Group with the majority of sales coming 
from outside the UK, the measurement of ﬁ nancial performance relative to UK inﬂ ation has become less relevant as this does not 
reﬂ ect the Group’s footprint and, therefore, inﬂ ation relevant to the Group as a whole.
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth elements
Vesting of awards on these elements would occur as per the vesting schedule below:
Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 3% per annum Nil
3% per annum 25%
3% to 7% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
7% per annum or higher 100%
In order to ensure that Net Revenue growth is not overly incentivised at the expense of proﬁ tability, an EPS underpin will apply in 
respect of the Net Revenue growth elements for the Executive Directors. This will require that a minimum level of EPS growth will 
have to be achieved in order for any awards under the Net Revenue growth element to vest.
Performance Criterion – EPS elements
Vesting of awards on these elements would occur as per the vesting schedule below:
Compound annual EPS growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 5% per annum Nil
5% per annum 25%
5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
10% per annum or higher 100%
In order to ensure that EPS growth is not achieved without due regard to the capital required to achieve such growth, an underpin 
based on Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) will apply in respect of the EPS elements for the Executive Directors. ROIC is a measure 
of proﬁ tability versus the Company’s total utilised capital including goodwill and so is particularly useful to incentivise an appropriate 
approach towards acquisitions. The ROIC underpin will require that a minimum level of ROIC will have to be achieved in order for 
any awards under the EPS growth element to vest.
Performance Criterion – TSR element
The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including over 40 companies across a 
broadly deﬁ ned consumer goods sector.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below:
Relative TSR performance
Shares vesting (as percentage of number relating to 
relative TSR performance condition)
Below median of peer group Nil
At median of peer group 25%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
Above upper quartile 100%
Overall Balance of Measures for Variable Pay
The combined effect of the revised performance criteria is to rebalance the focus of the ﬁ nancial metrics of variable pay towards top 
line growth. For long-term incentives (SMS and LTIP), based on the Chief Executive’s remuneration, this will result in the weighting 
shifting from one third TSR and two thirds EPS to one third TSR, one third EPS and one third Net Revenue growth. For the ﬁ nancial 
year ending 30 September 2013 the performance targets for the annual incentive will be 50 per cent EPS, 20 per cent Net Revenue 
growth, 15 per cent volume growth and 15 per cent non-ﬁ nancial.
Illustrative breakdown of CEO variable pay 
by performance measures
Short-term
 Volume growth 15%
 Non-ﬁnancial metrics 15%
 Net Revenue growth 20%
 EPS 50%
Long-term
 EPS 33%
 Net Revenue growth 33%
 TSR 33% Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 87
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Report on the Financial Year
Directors’ Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2012 (Audited)
£’000 2012 2011
Executive Directors
Base salary 1,660 1,602
Beneﬁ ts 47 47
Pension salary supplement 317 296
Bonus 1,477 913
LTIP annual vesting
1
1,219 1,058
SMS annual vesting
2
1,242 701
5,962 4,617
Non-Executive Directors
Fees 1,020 883
Beneﬁ ts 56 –
1,076 883
Former Executive Directors
Salary of former Executive Director – 21
Bonus of former Executive Director – 7
Subsidiary Board fees – 10
Beneﬁ ts – 1
– 39
Fees of former Non-Executive Directors
Subsidiary Board fees – 5
– 5
Total remuneration 7,038 5,544
Operating Executive (excluding Executive Directors)
Base salary 2,154 2,227
Beneﬁ ts 155 196
Pension salary supplement 137 132
Bonus 1,346 911
LTIP annual vesting
1
2,025 309
SMS annual vesting
2
662 548
6,479 4,323
1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying 
services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges was £15,173,257 (2011: £11,449,359). 
Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2012 (Audited)
£’000 2012 2011
Short-term employee beneﬁ ts 7,910 6,807
Post employment beneﬁ ts 934 952 
Other long-term beneﬁ ts – –
Termination beneﬁ ts – –
Share-based payment (in accordance with IAS 24) 5,864 6,741
14,708 14,500
  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
88
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Emoluments by Individual Director (Audited)
£’000
Base
salary Fees Bonus
Pension
salary
supplement
1
Beneﬁ ts
in kind
2
 
Sub
total 
2012
Sub
total
2011 SMS
3
LTIP
3
Total
2012
Total
2011 
Base
salary/
fees from
1/10/2012
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper, 
Chief Executive 860 – 881 79 16 1,836 1,417 443 408 2,687 1,905 920
Mr R Dyrbus, 
Finance Director 655 – 503 229 27 1,414 1,212 799 811 3,024 2,223 665
Mr M R Phillips
4
,
Corporate Affairs Director 145 – 93 9 4 251 ––– 251 – 435
Mr G L Blashill
5
, Group Sales 
and Marketing Director – – – – – – 229–– – 489 –
1,660 – 1,477 317 47 3,501 2,858 1,242 1,219 5,962 4,617 2,020
Non-Executive Directors
Mr I J G Napier, Chairman – 450 – – 1 451 433–– 451 433 450
Dr K M Burnett – 73 – – 23 96 65–– 96 65 73
Mr D J Haines
6
–48 – – 2 50 ––– 50 –73
Mr M H C Herlihy
7
–88 – – 2 90 75–– 90 75 93
Dr P H Jungels
7,8
–33 – – – 33 95–– 33 95 –
Ms S E Murray – 73 – – 1 74 65–– 74 65 73
Mr B Setrakian – 73 – – 25 98 65–– 98 65 73
Mr M D Williamson
7
–96 – – 1 97 85–– 97 85 98
Mr M I Wyman
7,9
–86 – – 1 87 ––– 87 –98
– 1,020 – – 56 1,076 883–– 1,076 883 1,031
Former Directors
Mr G L Blashill
5
–– – – – – 29–– – 291 –
Mr D Cresswell
10
–– – – – – 5–– – 5–
Mr S Huismans
11
–– – – – – 5–– – 5–
Mr S T Painter
12
–– – – – – 5–– – 5–
–– – – – – 44–– – 306 –
1 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on page 82.
2 Beneﬁ ts in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance. Beneﬁ ts in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the 
reimbursement of travelling expenses to Board meetings held at the Registered Ofﬁ ce.
3 SMS and LTIP represent the value of SMS awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year.
4 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
5 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011. He remained an employee until 15 February 2011.
6 Mr D J Haines was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2012. 
7  Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of £25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 
£15,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and £20,000 in respect of the Audit Committee.
8 Dr P H Jungels retired from the Board on 1 February 2012.
9 Mr M I Wyman was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
10  Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. He received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory 
Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010.
11 Mr S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006. He received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointments to Supervisory 
Boards within the Reemtsma Group until 7 December 2010.
12  Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000. He received fees in connection with his Non-Executive Director appointment in Imperial Tobacco 
Maroc S.A., formerly Altadis Maroc S.A., until 27 September 2011.
No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances and no Directors waived their fees.
0 102030405060708090 100
Mr M R Phillips
Mr R Dyrbus
Mrs A J Cooper
 Salary
 Pension Salary Supplement
 Beneﬁts in Kind
 Bonus
 SMS
 LTIP
Percentage of total actual remuneration for the ﬁnancial year to 30 September 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 89
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Executive Directors’ Contingent Rights to Shares under the Share Matching Scheme 
(Audited)
Balance at
1/10/2011
1
Contingent
rights arising
Prevailing share 
price at date 
of grant
£
Vested
during year
Market price
 at date of
 vesting
15/2/2012
£
Amount
realised on
vesting
£’000
Balance at
30/9/2012
Actual/expected 
vesting date
Mrs A J Cooper 17,895 – 17.80
2
(17,895) 24.73 443 – February 2012
20,644 – 20.57
3
–– – 20,644 February 2013
31,606 – 19.79
4
–– – 31,606 February 2014
– 21,415 24.73
5
–– – 21,415 February 2015
70,145 21,415 – (17,895) – 443 73,665
Mr R Dyrbus 32,303 – 17.80
2
(32,303) 24.73 799 – February 2012
32,255 – 20.57
3
–– – 32,255 February 2013
32,424 – 19.79
4
–– – 32,424 February 2014
– 12,896 24.73
5
–– – 12,896 February 2015
96,982 12,896 – (32,303) – 799 77,575
Mr M R Phillips
6
8,902 – 20.57
3
–– – 8,902 February 2013
10,929 – 19.79
4
–– – 10,929 February 2014
10,473 – 24.73
5
–– – 10,473 February 2015
30,304 – – – – – 30,304
1 Or date of appointment as a Director if later.
2 Award granted 15 February 2009.
3  Award granted 15 February 2010.
4 Award granted 15 February 2011.
5 Award granted 15 February 2012.
6 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012 and there have been no movements in his contingent rights since appointment.
 There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ contingent rights since 30 September 2012.
 During February 2012 the SMS relating to annual bonuses earned in the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2008 matured. 
The performance criterion was met in full. In respect of annual bonuses earned in the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2011 our 
Executive Directors elected to invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the form of our shares under the scheme. 
These matched shares are shown within contingent rights arising above. It is anticipated that in February 2013 the Executive 
Directors will again invest the equivalent of their entire SMS Eligible Bonus in the scheme.
The performance criterion, award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year. The Committee 
decided to retain the performance criterion pending the introduction of the revised remuneration policy.
In respect of the February 2010 award, based on EPS to the end of the ﬁ nancial year the award will vest in full. For illustrative 
purposes only, the share price on 29 October 2012, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was £23.32 valuing the 
February 2010 award as follows:
Award vesting
Number of shares
Award vesting
Illustrative value
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 20,644 481
Mr R Dyrbus 32,255 752
Mr M R Phillips 8,902 208
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2012 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance 
were maintained over the relevant performance periods, the February 2011 award would lapse and approximately 71.6 per cent of 
the February 2012 award would vest. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
90
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 Executive Directors’ Conditional Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(Audited) 
Balance at
1/10/2011
1
Granted
during
year
Date of
grant
Market
price at
date of
grant
£
Vested
during
year
(26/11/2011)
Market
price at
date of
vesting
£
Market
price at
date of
exercise
£
Lapsed
during
year
Amount
realised on
exercise
£’000
Balance at
30/9/2012
Performance
period
Mrs A J Cooper 31,972 – 26/11/08 14.70 (17,811) 22.54 22.91 (14,161) 408 – 2008-2011
2
29,192 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 29,192 2009-2012
3
78,624 – 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 78,624 2010-2013
4
– 75,604 02/11/11 22.75 – – – – – 75,604 2011-2014
5
139,788 75,604 – – (17,811) – – (14,161) 408 183,420
Mr R Dyrbus 63,571 – 26/11/08 14.70 (35,415) 22.54 22.91 (28,156) 811 – 2008-2011
2
51,472 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 51,472 2009-2012
3
47,299 – 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 47,299 2010-2013
4
– 43,153 02/11/11 22.75 – – – – – 43,153 2011-2014
5
162,34243,153 – – (35,415) – –(28,156) 811 141,924
Mr M R Phillips
6
12,393 – 11/11/09 18.70 – – – – – 12,393 2009-2012
3
13,636 – 03/11/10 20.35 – – – – – 13,636 2010-2013
4
12,807 – 02/11/11 22.75 – – – – – 12,807 2011-2014
5
38,836 – – – – – – – – 38,836
1 Or date of appointment as a Director if later.
2 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 26 November 2011 and 25 November 2018.
3 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 11 November 2012 and 10 November 2019.
4 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 3 November 2013 and 2 November 2020.
5 Exercisable, upon the payment of the option exercise price of 1 penny, between 2 November 2014 and 1 November 2021.
6 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012 and there have been no movements in his Conditional Share Awards since appointment.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ awards since 30 September 2012. 
During the year, the November 2008 – November 2011 award vested partially on 26 November 2011. Based on EPS and TSR 
performance to the end of the ﬁ nancial year approximately 80.4 per cent of the ﬁ rst element vested, approximately 62.1 per cent 
of the second element vested and none of the third element vested. The remaining shares under award lapsed.
 In respect of the November 2009 – November 2012 award, based on EPS and TSR performance to the end of the ﬁ nancial year 
approximately 19.6 per cent of the ﬁ rst element will vest on 11 November 2012, approximately 73.75 per cent of the second 
element will vest and the third element will lapse. For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 29 October 2012, being the 
latest practicable date prior to publication, was £23.32, valuing the awards as follows:
Award lapsing
Number of shares
Award vesting
Number of shares
over which 
option granted
Award vesting
Illustrative value
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 20,945 8,247 192
Mr R Dyrbus 36,931 14,541 339
Mr M R Phillips 8,893 3,500 82
The value of any options exercised could vary signiﬁ cantly from that shown due to share price movements.
Interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2012 indicate that, in the event that only this level of performance 
were maintained over the relevant performance periods, the ﬁ rst element of the November 2010 – November 2013 award would 
lapse, 100 per cent of the second element would vest and the third element would lapse. In respect of the November 2011 – 
November 2014 award, approximately 28.8 per cent of the ﬁ rst element would vest, approximately 97.1 per cent of the second 
element would vest and the third element would lapse. 
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows:
Number of shares
November 2013
Illustrative value
£’000 Number of shares
November 2014
Illustrative value
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 19,656 458 29,220 681
Mr R Dyrbus 11,824 276 16,678 389
Mr M R Phillips 3,409 79 4,949 115 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 91
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Executive Directors’ Share Options under the Sharesave Plan (Audited) 
Balance at
 1/10/2011
1
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
Exercised
during
 the year
Market price 
at date 
of exercise
£
Balance at
30/09/2012
 
Exercise price
£
Range of
exercisable
dates of
options held at
30/9/2012
2
Gains on exercise
3
During
the year 
£’000
2011
£’000
Mrs A J Cooper 729 – – (729) 24.97 – 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 9 –
– 440 – – – 440 20.45 01/08/15 – 31/01/16 – –
729 440 – (729) – 440 ––9–
Mr R Dyrbus 437 – – (437) 24.97 – 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 5 –
232 –– – – 232 15.63 01/08/13 – 31/01/14 – –
– 264 – – – 264 20.45 01/08/15 – 31/01/16 – –
669 264 – (437) – 496 ––5–
Mr M R Phillips
4
437 – – (437) 24.97 – 12.54 01/08/12 – 31/01/13 5 –
232 – – – – 232 15.63 01/08/13 – 31/01/14 – –
264 –– – 264 20.45 01/08/15 – 31/01/16 – –
933 – – (437) – 496 ––5–
1 Or date of appointment as a Director if later.
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will lapse.
3 Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise. Aggregate gains during the 
year were £19,925 (2011: £nil).
4 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012 and there have been no movements in his share options since appointment.
There have been no changes in any Executive Directors’ share options since 30 September 2012.
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2012, being the last trading day of the ﬁ nancial year, 
was £22.92 and the range of the middle market price during the year was £21.25 to £25.95.
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at our registered ofﬁ ce.
Award Dates
Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
 Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited)
Disclosures required under the Regulations Disclosures required 
under the Listing Rules
£’000 Accrued pension £’000 Transfer value of accrued pension £’000
Age at 
30/09/2012 
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
30/09/2012 
Years
At 
1/10/2011
Increase 
during 
the year
At 
30/09/2012
At 
1/10/2011
Increase/
(decrease) 
during the 
year net of 
Director’s 
contributions
Director’s 
contribution
At 
30/09/2012
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
(net of 
inﬂ ation) 
during 
the year
Transfer 
value of 
increase 
(net of 
inﬂ ation)
Mrs A J Cooper 46 13 109 20 129 1,114 367 32 1,513 15 182
Mr R Dyrbus 59 30 324 6 330 5,564 601 – 6,165 – –
Mr M R Phillips 41 12 64 10 74 601 194 10 805 7 82
 Remuneration Arrangements for Former Director
Mr M A Häussler 
Mr Häussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it was taken before he reached his 
normal retirement age. His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension beneﬁ ts to 
those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement. This was 
a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his ﬁ xed annual salary at age 63. For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension for life of 
60 per cent of that amount would be payable. The pension is made up of two parts: one part payable from the unfunded pension 
arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, the other part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension 
Fund. The pensions payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased 
annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials
92
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Interests in Ordinary Shares (Beneﬁ cial, Family and any Connected Persons 
Interests) (Audited)
Ordinary Shares Sharesave Options
Contingent Rights to
Ordinary Shares
(LTIP and SMS Shares) Total Interests
1/10/11
1
30/09/12
2
1/10/11
1
30/09/12
2
1/10/11
1
30/09/12
2
1/10/11
1
30/9/12
2
 
Executive Directors
Mrs A J Cooper 130,187 147,917 729 440 209,933 257,085 340,849 405,442
Mr R Dyrbus 399,462 410,000 669 496 259,324 219,499 659,455 629,995
Mr M R Phillips
3
36,671 37,108 669 496 69,140 69,140 106,480 106,744
Non-Executive Directors
Mr I J G Napier 16,807 18,457 – – – – 16,807 18,457
Dr K M Burnett 1,876 2,109 – – – – 1,876 2,109
Mr D J Haines
4
– 139 – – – – – 139
Mr M H C Herlihy 3,442 3,810 – – – – 3,442 3,810
Dr P H Jungels
5
6,012 6,012 – – – – 6,012 6,012
Ms S E Murray 2,758 2,991 – – – – 2,758 2,991
Mr B Setrakian 1,018 1,251 – – – – 1,018 1,251
Mr M D Williamson 2,890 3,151 – – – – 2,890 3,151
 Mr M I Wyman
6
– 3,041 – – – – – 3,041
1 Or date of appointment if later.
2 Or date of resignation or retirement if earlier.
3 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
4 Mr D J Haines was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2012. 
5 Dr P H Jungels retired from the Board on 1 February 2012.
6 Mr M I Wyman was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
There have been no changes in these interests since 30 September 2012.
Other Information
Review of Past Performance 
The chart below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2007 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our ﬁ nancial year ends to 30 September 2012. We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides 
the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance and reﬂ ects one of our LTIP 
performance criteria.
Imperial
Tobacco
FTSE 100
75
100
125
150
Total Return Indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100
2007 2009 2008 2010 2011 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Financials 93
Governance
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts
Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or 
ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee beneﬁ t trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and 
Executive Beneﬁ t Trust (the Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Beneﬁ t Trust (the 2001 Trust) 
(together the Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts).
As at 30 September 2012, we held 77,802,000 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under 
our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts. 
Options and awards may also be satisﬁ ed by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts are as follows:
 
Balance at
1/10/2011
Acquired 
during year
Distributed
during year
Balance at 
30/09/2012
Ordinary shares 
under award
at 30/09/2012
Surplus/
(shortfall)
Executive Trust 979,644 70,000 (236,517) 813,127 804,848 8,279
2001 Trust 3,834,659 1,000,000 (1,598,385) 3,236,274 4,286,880 (1,050,606)
Share Plan Flow Rates
The Trust Deeds of the Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting 
options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in ﬁ ve years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, 
with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans. Currently an aggregate total of 0.3 per cent of 
the Company’s issued share capital (including shares held in treasury) is subject to options and awards under the Group’s executive 
and all employee share plans. 
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative number of shares under option and award granted pursuant to all of the Company’s 
employee share plans totals 3.1 per cent of its issued share capital. Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants 
have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital (including shares held in treasury).
Summary of Options and Awards Granted
Limit on awards
Cumulative options and awards granted 
as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
 Options and awards granted during the year 
 as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2
5% in 5 years 1.0 0.2
5% in 10 years (executive plans) 1.2 0.1
    For the Board
M H C Herlihy
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
30 October 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
94
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements and Notes – Contents
Group Financial Statements
 Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 95
Consolidated Income Statement 96
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 97
Consolidated Balance Sheet 98
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 99
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 100
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Accounting Policies 101
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 105
3 Segment Information 106
4 Proﬁ t Before Taxation 108
5 Restructuring Costs 108
6 Directors and Employees 108
7 Net Finance Costs 109
8 Taxation 110
9 Dividends 111
10 Earnings Per Share 111
11 Intangible Assets 112
12 Property, Plant and Equipment 114
13 Joint Ventures 115
14 Inventories 116
15 Trade and Other Receivables 116
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 116
17 Trade and Other Payables 117
18 Borrowings and Finance Lease Liabilities 117
19 Financial Risk Factors 118
20 Derivative Financial Instruments 124
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 127
22 Retirement Beneﬁ t Schemes 128
23 Provisions 131
24 Share Capital 131
25 Share Schemes 132
26 Treasury Shares 134
27 Commitments 134
28 Legal Proceedings 135
29 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 135
30 Net Debt 135
31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement 
in Net Debt 136
Parent Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 137
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 138
Notes to the Financial Statements 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 139
Principal Undertakings 141 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance 95
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁ nancial statements of Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and 
related notes. The ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors 
and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the Group ﬁ nancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial 
Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁ cant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁ nancial and non-
ﬁ nancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁ nancial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁ nancial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as 
at 30 September 2012 and of its proﬁ t and cash ﬂ ows for the 
year then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the ﬁ nancial year for which the Group ﬁ nancial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to 
Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by 
law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the Directors’ statement in the Corporate Governance 
Report, in relation to going concern; and 
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁ ed for our review; and
 – certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 
30 September 2012 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
David Charles (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Bristol
30 October 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
96
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million unless otherwise indicated Notes 2012 2011 
Revenue 3 28,574 29,223 
Duty and similar items (13,902) (14,037)
Other cost of sales (9,178) (9,736)
Cost of sales (23,080) (23,773)
Gross proﬁ t 5,494 5,450 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (2,005) (2,006)
Impairment of acquired intangibles 11 (1,187) – 
Other expenses (784) (804)
Administrative and other expenses (1,971) (804)
Operating proﬁ t 3 1,518 2,640 
Investment income 7 1,036 785 
Finance costs 7 (1,473) (1,272)
Net ﬁ nance costs 7 (437) (487)
Proﬁ t before taxation 4 1,081 2,153 
Taxation 8 (382) (337)
Proﬁ t for the year 699 1,816 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 678 1,796 
Non-controlling interests 21 20 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
– Basic 10 68.1 177.3 
– Diluted 10 67.9 176.8
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance 97
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Proﬁ t for the year 699 1,816 
Other comprehensive income
Exchange movements (523) (127)
Current tax on exchange movements 6 – 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement beneﬁ ts 22 (404) 41 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial losses/(gains) on retirement beneﬁ ts 21 96 (21)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (825) (107)
Total comprehensive income for the year (126) 1,709 
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent (144) 1,692 
Non-controlling interests 18 17 
Total comprehensive income for the year (126) 1,709 
Reconciliation from operating proﬁ t to adjusted operating proﬁ t
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Operating proﬁ t 1,518 2,640 
Acquisition accounting adjustments (10) – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11 365 402 
Impairment of acquired intangibles 11 1,187 – 
Restructuring costs 5 101 61 
Adjusted operating proﬁ t 3,161 3,103 
Reconciliation from net ﬁ nance costs to adjusted net ﬁ nance costs
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Net ﬁ nance costs (437) (487)
Net fair value and exchange gains on ﬁ nancial instruments providing 
commercial hedges 7 (125) (85)
Post-employment beneﬁ ts net ﬁ nancing cost 7 27 10 
Adjusted net ﬁ nance costs (535) (562)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
98
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 17,609 20,487 
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,025 2,038 
Investments in associates 16 18 
Retirement beneﬁ t assets 22 – 5 
Trade and other receivables 15 98 100 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 20 636 429 
Deferred tax assets 21 142 102 
20,526 23,179 
Current assets
Inventories 14 3,132 3,055 
Trade and other receivables 15 3,029 2,897 
Current tax assets 8 55 42 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 631 1,171 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 20 266 223 
7,113 7,388 
Total assets 27,639 30,567 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (1,234) (2,104)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 20 (182) (301)
Trade and other payables 17 (7,231) (7,617)
Finance lease liabilities 18 (20) (1)
Current tax liabilities 8 (372) (434)
Provisions 23 (103) (163)
(9,142) (10,620)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (8,333) (8,076)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 20 (729) (760)
Trade and other payables 17 (18) (19)
Finance lease liabilities 18 – (22)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (1,877) (2,056)
Retirement beneﬁ t liabilities 22 (1,046) (759)
Provisions 23 (410) (545)
(12,413) (12,237)
Total liabilities (21,555) (22,857)
Net assets 6,084 7,710 
Equity
Share capital 24 107 107 
Share premium 5,833 5,833 
Retained earnings (150) 956 
Exchange translation reserve 245 759 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 6,035 7,655 
Non-controlling interests 49 55 
Total equity 6,084 7,710 
The ﬁ nancial statements on pages 96 to 136 were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 October 2012 and signed on its 
behalf by:
 
Iain Napier  Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance 99
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million
Share 
capital
Share 
premium
Retained 
earnings
Exchange 
translation 
reserve
Equity 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent
Non-
controlling 
interests Total equity
At 1 October 2011 107 5,833 956 759 7,655 55 7,710 
Proﬁ t for the year – – 678 – 678 21 699 
Exchange movements – – – (520) (520) (3) (523)
Current tax on exchange movements – – – 6 6 – 6 
Net actuarial losses on 
retirement beneﬁ ts – – (404) – (404) – (404)
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial 
losses on retirement beneﬁ ts – – 96 – 96 – 96 
Other comprehensive income – – (308) (514) (822) (3) (825)
Total comprehensive income – – 370 (514) (144) 18 (126)
Transactions with owners
Cash from employees on maturity/
exercise of share schemes – – 8 – 8 – 8 
Costs of employees’ services 
compensated by share schemes – – 20 – 20 – 20 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 1 – 1 – 1 
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – 1 –1 –1 
Changes in non-controlling interests – – 5 – 5 (5) – 
Increase in own shares held as 
treasury shares – – (528) – (528) – (528)
Dividends paid – – (983) – (983) (19) (1,002)
At 30 September 2012 107 5,833 (150) 245 6,035 49 6,084 
At 1 October 2010 107 5,833 206 883 7,029 60 7,089 
Proﬁ t for the year – – 1,796 – 1,796 20 1,816 
Exchange movements – – – (124) (124) (3) (127)
Net actuarial gains on 
retirement beneﬁ ts – – 41 – 41 – 41 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial 
gains on retirement beneﬁ ts – – (21) – (21) – (21)
Other comprehensive income – – 20 (124) (104) (3) (107)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,816 (124) 1,692 17 1,709 
Transactions with owners
Purchase of shares by Employee 
Share Ownership Trusts – – (22) – (22) – (22)
Cash from employees on maturity/
exercise of share schemes – – 4 – 4 – 4 
Costs of employees’ services 
compensated by share schemes – – 26 – 26 – 26 
Increase in own shares held as 
treasury shares – – (182) – (182) – (182)
Dividends paid – – (892) – (892) (22) (914)
At 30 September 2011 107 5,833 956 759 7,655 55 7,710
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
100
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Cash ﬂ ows from operating activities 29 2,119 2,556 
Cash ﬂ ows from investing activities
Interest received 15 18 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (300) (341)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 21 21 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (24) (22)
Net cash used in investing activities (288) (324)
Cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities
Interest paid (515) (570)
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise of share schemes 8 4 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – (22)
Settlement of exchange rate derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (275) (44)
Increase in borrowings 1,335 1,785 
Repayment of borrowings (1,486) (1,837)
Decrease/(increase) in collateralisation deposits 196 (34)
Finance lease payments (2) (2)
Purchase of treasury shares (528) (182)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (19) (22)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (983) (892)
Net cash used in ﬁ nancing activities (2,269) (1,816)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (438) 416 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 1,171 773 
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (102) (18)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 631 1,171
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
101
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS.
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention except where fair value measurement 
is required under IFRS as described below in the accounting 
policies on ﬁ nancial instruments.
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during 
the period and of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the 
balance sheet date. The key estimates and assumptions are set 
out in note 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements. 
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable in the circumstances and constitute management’s 
best judgement at the date of the ﬁ nancial statements. In the 
future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and 
assumptions. This could affect future ﬁ nancial statements as the 
original estimates and assumptions are modiﬁ ed, as appropriate, 
in the year in which the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is 
set out below.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements comprise the results of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its subsidiary 
undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. 
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the 
ﬁ nancial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into 
account any potential voting rights. The ﬁ nancial statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁ nancial 
statements from the date that control commences until the 
date that control ceases. Where necessary, accounting policies 
of subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
purchase of subsidiaries. The excess of the value transferred to 
the seller in return for control of the acquired business together 
with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in 
that business over the Group’s share of the fair value of the 
identiﬁ able net assets is recorded as goodwill. 
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be 
recovered. A list of the principal undertakings is included on 
pages 141 and 142.
Joint Ventures
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group and 
third parties jointly control. The ﬁ nancial statements of joint 
ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method, 
with the Group’s share of assets and liabilities recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet classiﬁ ed according to their nature. 
In the same way, the Group’s share of income and expenses is 
presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance 
with their function.
Foreign Currency
Items included in the ﬁ nancial statements of each Group 
company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the company operates 
(the functional currency).
The income and cash ﬂ ow statements of Group companies 
using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to 
sterling (the Group’s presentational currency) at average rates 
of exchange in each period. Assets and liabilities of these 
companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. The differences between retained proﬁ ts 
and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to 
reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the 
net assets at the beginning of the year.
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional 
currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from 
the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
with exchange differences arising on trading transactions 
being reported in operating proﬁ t, and with those arising on 
ﬁ nancing transactions reported in net ﬁ nance costs unless as 
a result of net investment hedging they are reported in other 
comprehensive income.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external 
borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of 
Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies 
after deducting permanent intragroup loans. Gains or losses 
on these hedges that are regarded as highly effective are 
transferred to other comprehensive income and offset gains or 
losses on translation of the net investments that are recorded 
in equity, in the exchange translation reserve.
Revenue Recognition
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced 
value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, 
rebates and discounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised when a Group company has delivered products to 
the customer, the customer has accepted the products and 
collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured. 
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing certain 
third party products, are recognised in the accounting period 
in which the services are rendered. 
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced 
value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, 
rebates and discounts. The Logistics business only recognises 
commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in 
which it acts as a commission agent. Distribution and 
marketing commissions are included in revenue. Revenue is 
recognised on products on consignment when these are sold 
by the consignee.
Duty and Similar Items
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the 
characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production 
tax, duty is included in revenue and in cost of sales in the 
consolidated income statement. Where duty is a sales tax, duty 
is excluded from revenue. Payments due in the United States 
under the Master Settlement Agreement are considered to be 
levies having the characteristics of duty and are treated as a 
production tax.
Notes to the Financial Statements Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
102
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1 Accounting Policies continued
Taxes
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income 
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in 
respect of previous years. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns 
where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected 
to be paid to the tax authorities only where it is considered 
more likely than not that an amount will be paid or received. 
This test is applied to each individual uncertain position which 
is then measured on the single most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
ﬁ nancial statements and the tax base, except if it arises from 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other 
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁ t or loss. Deferred tax 
is provided on temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁ ts will be 
available against which the assets can be realised. Deferred tax 
is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and are 
expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or 
the deferred tax asset is realised.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except 
where it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in 
other comprehensive income or equity.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim 
dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends 
are paid.
Intangible Assets – Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller 
in return for control of the acquired business together with the 
fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business 
over the Group’s share of the fair value of the identiﬁ able 
net assets.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment 
is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement 
and cannot be subsequently reversed. For the purpose of 
impairment testing goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-
generating units that are expected to beneﬁ t from the business 
combination in which the goodwill arose.
Intangible Assets – Other
Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet at historical cost unless they are 
acquired as part of a business combination, in which case 
they are initially recognised at fair value. They are shown in 
the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value (depending 
on how they are acquired) less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, 
concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and 
computer software. The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some 
premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to 
have indeﬁ nite lives based on the fact that they are established 
international brands with global potential. Trademarks with 
indeﬁ nite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for 
impairment. Other trademarks, supply agreements (including 
customer relationships) and computer software are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Trademarks 20 – 30 years  straight line
Supply agreements 3 – 15 years  straight line
Software 3 – 5 years  straight line
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown in the consolidated 
balance sheet at historical cost or fair value (depending on 
how they are acquired), less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment. Costs incurred after initial recognition are included 
in the assets’ carrying amounts or recognised as a separate 
asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future 
economic beneﬁ ts associated with them will ﬂ ow to the 
Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other 
property, plant and equipment so as to write down the initial 
cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful 
life as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years straight line
Plant and equipment 2 – 20 years straight line/
  reducing balance
Fixtures and  2 – 14 years straight line
motor vehicles
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, 
if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments and Hedging
Financial assets and ﬁ nancial liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
relevant instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when 
the rights to receive beneﬁ ts have expired or been transferred, 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the 
obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial assets are classiﬁ ed as loans 
and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents). 
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision for impairment 
of receivables is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount 
of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂ ows, 
and is recognised in the consolidated income statement. For 
interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued 
interest receivable.
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair 
value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value 
includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised 
transaction costs. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
103
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and 
deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly 
liquid investments.
The Group transacts derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to manage 
the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest 
rate risks. The Group does not transact derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments for trading purposes. Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable 
transaction costs. Derivative ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities are 
included in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, and 
include accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant. 
However, as the Group has decided (as permitted under IAS 39) 
not to cash ﬂ ow or fair value hedge account for its derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they arise unless 
the derivative qualiﬁ es and has been designated as a net 
investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in 
fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in 
other comprehensive income.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of 
credit support annex documents under International Swaps 
and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in respect of 
certain derivatives are net settled and are therefore netted 
off the carrying value of those derivatives in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the ﬁ rst-in, ﬁ rst-out (FIFO) 
method. The cost of ﬁ nished goods and work in progress 
comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and 
related production overheads (based on normal operating 
capacity). Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of 
completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that 
exceeds 12 months is classiﬁ ed as a current asset, consistent 
with recognised industry practice.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet 
when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outﬂ ow 
of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a 
reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group 
has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the 
restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly 
announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be 
implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations 
arising can be reliably estimated. Future operating losses are 
not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood 
that an outﬂ ow will be required in settlement is determined by 
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is 
recognised even if the likelihood of an outﬂ ow with respect to 
any one item included in the same class of obligations may 
be small.
Retirement Beneﬁ t Schemes
For deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes, the amount recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet is the difference between the 
present value of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation at the balance 
sheet date and the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent 
that they are demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a 
reduction in future contributions. The deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation 
is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash ﬂ ows using interest rates of high quality corporate 
bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the 
beneﬁ ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
The service cost of providing retirement beneﬁ ts to employees 
during the year is charged to operating proﬁ t. Past service 
costs are recognised immediately in operating proﬁ t, unless the 
changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees 
remaining in service for a speciﬁ ed period of time.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between 
actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise 
as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised 
immediately in full in the statement of comprehensive income for 
the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the 
retirement beneﬁ t schemes during the year is included within net 
ﬁ nance costs. This is based on the market value of the assets 
of the schemes at the start of the ﬁ nancial year. A charge is also 
made within net ﬁ nance costs for the expected increase in the 
present value of the liabilities of the retirement beneﬁ t schemes 
during the year arising from the schemes being one year closer 
to payment.
For deﬁ ned contribution schemes, contributions are recognised 
as an employee beneﬁ t expense when they are due. 
Share-Based Payments
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based 
Payment Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled 
share-based employee compensation schemes. The majority of 
the Group’s schemes are equity-settled.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting 
period, based on the number of instruments that are expected 
to vest. For plans where vesting conditions are based on total 
shareholder returns, the fair value at the date of grant reﬂ ects 
these conditions. Earnings per share vesting conditions are 
reﬂ ected in the estimate of awards that will eventually vest. 
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to 
the portion of the services received is recognised at its current 
fair value at each balance sheet date. Where applicable the 
Group recognises the impact of revisions to original estimates 
in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes and current 
liabilities for cash-settled schemes. Fair values are measured 
using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the 
terms and conditions of the awards.
The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to 
shares arising under share-based employee compensation 
schemes. Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these 
shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable 
to owners of the parent. When the rights are exercised, equity 
is increased by the amount of any proceeds received by the 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
104
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1 Accounting Policies continued
Treasury Shares
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital 
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), 
is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to 
owners of the parent until the shares are cancelled, reissued 
or disposed of. When such shares are subsequently sold 
or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects, increases equity attributable to owners 
of the parent.
Use of Adjusted Measures
Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures 
provide a useful comparison of business performance and 
reﬂ ect the way in which the business is controlled. Accordingly, 
adjusted measures of operating proﬁ t, net ﬁ nance costs, 
proﬁ t before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and earnings 
per share exclude, where applicable, acquisition accounting 
adjustments, amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment beneﬁ ts 
net ﬁ nancing cost, fair value gains and losses on derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments in respect of commercially effective 
hedges, exchange gains and losses on borrowings in respect of 
commercially effective hedges, and related taxation effects and 
signiﬁ cant one-off tax provision charges or credits arising from 
the resolution of prior year tax matters. Reconciliations between 
adjusted and reported operating proﬁ t are included within note 3 
to the ﬁ nancial statements, adjusted and reported net ﬁ nance 
costs in note 7, adjusted and reported taxation in note 8, and 
adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 10.
The adjusted measures in this report are not deﬁ ned terms 
under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled 
measures reported by other companies.
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are 
one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not 
inﬂ uenced by the day to day operations of the Group, and the 
movements in the fair value of ﬁ nancial instruments which are 
marked to market and not naturally offset. Adjusted net ﬁ nance 
costs also excludes all post-employment beneﬁ t net ﬁ nance 
cost since pension assets and liabilities and redundancy and 
social plan provisions do not form part of adjusted net debt. 
This allows comparison of the Group’s cost of debt with 
adjusted net debt. The adjusted measures are used by 
management to assess the Group’s ﬁ nancial performance 
and aid comparability of results year on year. 
The principal adjustments made to reported proﬁ ts are 
as follows:
Acquisition Accounting Adjustments
Adjusted measures exclude acquisition-related items which 
do not relate to the operational performance of the Group, 
such as subsequent releases of, or additional charges to, 
provisions established at the time of an acquisition.
Amortisation and Impairment of Acquired Intangibles
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful 
economic lives where these are considered to be ﬁ nite. 
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indeﬁ nite life are 
not amortised. We exclude from our adjusted measures the 
amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, other than 
software, and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and tax deductible goodwill. The deferred 
tax is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon 
disposal of the intangibles and goodwill. The related current 
cash tax beneﬁ t is retained in the adjusted measure to reﬂ ect the 
ongoing tax beneﬁ t to the Group.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments 
and Exchange Gains and Losses on Borrowings
IAS 39 requires that all derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are 
recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with 
changes in the fair value being recognised in the consolidated 
income statement unless the instrument satisﬁ es the hedge 
accounting rules under IFRS and the Group chooses to 
designate the derivative ﬁ nancial instrument as a hedge.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efﬁ cient, 
commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging 
requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective 
hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, 
and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to 
apply cash ﬂ ow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments. However, the Group does apply net 
investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and 
derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s 
foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise 
income statement volatility.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings 
providing commercial hedges from adjusted net ﬁ nance costs. 
Fair value gains and losses on the interest element of derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments are excluded as they will reverse over time 
or are matched in future periods by interest charges. Fair value 
gains and losses on the currency element of derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings are 
excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains and losses on 
the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a separate 
component of other comprehensive income in accordance with 
the Group’s policy on foreign currency.
Restructuring Costs
Signiﬁ cant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired 
businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with 
their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings 
measures. These costs include the impairment of property, 
plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due 
to restructuring activity.
Post-Employment Beneﬁ ts Net Financing Cost
The expected return on plan assets and the interest on 
retirement beneﬁ t liabilities, together with the unwind of 
discount on redundancy and social plans costs included in 
restructuring provisions, are reported within net ﬁ nance costs. 
These items together with their related tax effects are excluded 
from our adjusted earnings measures.
Tax Provisions
Signiﬁ cant one-off tax charges or credits arising from the 
resolution of prior year tax matters (outside of changes in 
estimates in the normal course of business) are excluded from 
our adjusted tax charge to aid comparability and understanding 
of the Group’s performance.
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management
Net Revenue
Net revenue comprises the Tobacco business revenue less 
associated duty and similar items less revenue from the 
sale of peripheral and non-tobacco-related products. 
Management considers this an important measure in 
assessing the proﬁ tability of Tobacco operations.  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
105
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Distribution Fees
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue 
less the cost of distributed products. Management considers 
this an important measure in assessing the proﬁ tability of 
Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using 
adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair 
value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial 
cash ﬂ ow hedges and ﬁ nance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations
New standards or interpretations which came into effect for the 
current reporting period did not have a material impact on the 
net assets or results of the Group.
Under IAS 19 (Revised) which becomes mandatory for the 
Group in its 2014 accounts, the interest charge on retirement 
beneﬁ t liabilities and the expected return on pension plan 
assets will be replaced by a net interest income or expense on 
net deﬁ ned beneﬁ t assets or liabilities based on high-quality 
corporate bond rates. We are monitoring the potential impact, 
which is likely to be an increase in our reported net ﬁ nance 
costs. While the volatility of reported net ﬁ nance costs is 
expected to increase, adjusted net ﬁ nance costs will be 
unaffected. We do not expect the effect on the net assets 
of the Group to be material. IFRS 11 is likely to become 
mandatory for the Group in its 2015 accounts and will require 
the Group to equity account for its joint ventures which are 
currently proportionately consolidated. It is not expected to 
have a material effect on the results or net assets of the Group.
Other standards and interpretations issued, but not yet effective, 
are not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s net 
assets or results.
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and 
Judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the 
future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated 
based on historical experience, and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these 
estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a signiﬁ cant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the current 
ﬁ nancial year are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings and Disputes
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following 
developments in the legal proceedings at each balance 
sheet date, considering the nature of the litigation, claim or 
assessment; the legal processes and potential level of damages 
in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has 
been brought; the progress of the case (including progress after 
the date of the ﬁ nancial statements but before those statements 
are issued); the opinions or views of legal counsel and other 
advisers; experience of similar cases and any decision of the 
Group’s management as to how it will respond to the litigation, 
claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Group’s assessments at any time do 
not reﬂ ect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome 
of any claim, its future ﬁ nancial statements may be materially 
affected, with a favourable or adverse impact upon the Group’s 
operating proﬁ t, ﬁ nancial position and liquidity.
A summary of signiﬁ cant legal cases in which the Group is 
currently involved is disclosed in note 28 Legal Proceedings.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets (other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette 
trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks) and property, 
plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their 
useful lives which are based on management’s estimates of 
the period over which the assets will generate revenue, and 
are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. 
Changes to the estimates used can result in signiﬁ cant 
variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or 
depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indeﬁ nite 
lived assets are subject to impairment review. The Group’s 
management undertakes an impairment review annually, 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment 
review of property, plant and equipment and/or intangible 
assets include the following:
 – signiﬁ cant underperformance relative to historical or 
projected future operating results; 
 – signiﬁ cant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired 
assets or the strategy for the overall business; and 
 – signiﬁ cant negative industry or economic trends.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related 
to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the 
application of the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect 
the amounts reported in the ﬁ nancial statements, especially 
the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and 
the carrying values of those assets. If business conditions 
were different, or if different assumptions were used in the 
application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely that 
materially different amounts could be reported in the Group’s 
ﬁ nancial statements. Current and future levels of volatility and 
uncertainty over economic conditions are important factors in 
assessing the reasonableness of these estimates, assumptions 
and judgements.
See notes 11 and 12 to these ﬁ nancial statements.
Retirement Beneﬁ ts
The costs, assets and liabilities of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t retirement 
schemes operating within the Group are determined using 
methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions. 
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to 
the appropriateness of the assumptions. It is important to note, 
however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions 
used may have a signiﬁ cant effect on the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
statements. Details of the key assumptions are set out in 
note 22.
Income Taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions 
and signiﬁ cant judgement is required in determining the 
provision for tax. There are many transactions and calculations 
for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group 
recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes 
that are likely to become due. Where the ﬁ nal tax outcome is 
different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such 
differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
106
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
3 Segment Information
Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses – Tobacco and Logistics. In addition to regularly reviewing results and plans 
for the Tobacco and Logistics businesses, the Operating Executive regularly reviewed during the year the performance and plans 
of the Tobacco business analysed on a geographic basis, reﬂ ecting the importance of certain individual markets and geographic 
groupings. The segments presented below are therefore the Group’s six Tobacco regions and the Logistics business. 
The information provided to the Operating Executive is used as the basis of the segment revenue and proﬁ t disclosures provided 
below, with the geographic analysis of Tobacco based on the location of customers, and central Group costs allocated consistently 
based on management’s assessment of the level of support provided. The main measure of proﬁ t used by the Operating Executive 
to assess performance is adjusted operating proﬁ t. Segment balance sheet information is not provided to the Operating Executive.
The Tobacco business comprises the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales 
to (but not by) the Logistics business. The Logistics business comprises the distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product 
manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
The Logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated equally, and consequently 
transactions between the Tobacco and Logistics businesses are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reﬂ ecting market prices 
for comparable goods and services.
For the purposes of the analysis below, Rest of European Union comprises the EU member states plus Norway, Iceland, 
Liechtenstein and Switzerland. The Cuban joint ventures are included in the Rest of the World. All of the Logistics business 
is located in the European Union.
Tobacco 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2012 2011 
Revenue 21,161 21,277 
Net revenue 7,005 6,913 
Operating proﬁ t 1,447 2,577 
Adjusted operating proﬁ t 2,989 2,924 
Adjusted operating margin % 42.7 42.3 
Logistics
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2012 2011 
Revenue 8,368 8,911 
Distribution fees 872 932 
Operating proﬁ t 75 67 
Adjusted operating proﬁ t 176 183 
Adjusted distribution margin % 20.2 19.6 
Revenue
£ million
2012 2011 
Total revenue External revenue Total revenue External revenue
Tobacco
UK 5,390 5,390 5,030 5,030 
Germany 3,931 3,931 4,147 4,147 
Spain 470 32 497 56 
Rest of European Union 5,015 4,498 5,469 4,945 
Americas 1,223 1,223 1,408 1,408 
Rest of the World 5,132 5,132 4,726 4,726 
Total Tobacco 21,161 20,206 21,277 20,312 
Logistics 8,368 8,368 8,911 8,911 
Eliminations (955) – (965) – 
Total Group 28,574 28,574 29,223 29,223 
Tobacco net revenue
£ million 2012 2011 
UK 936 869 
Germany 861 879 
Spain 470 497 
Rest of European Union 1,534 1,592 
Americas 660 731 
Rest of the World 2,544 2,345 
Total Tobacco 7,005 6,913 
Tobacco net revenue excludes revenue from the sale of peripheral and non-tobacco related products of £254 million 
(2011: £326 million). Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
107
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Adjusted operating proﬁ t and reconciliation to proﬁ t before tax
£ million 2012 2011 
Tobacco
UK 627 577 
Germany 448 461 
Spain 202 200 
Rest of European Union 626 658 
Americas 214 234 
Rest of the World 872 794 
Total Tobacco 2,989 2,924 
Logistics 176 183 
Eliminations (4) (4)
Adjusted operating proﬁ t 3,161 3,103 
Acquisition accounting adjustments – Tobacco 10 – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Tobacco (283) (299)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Logistics (82) (103)
Impairment of acquired intangibles – Tobacco (1,187) – 
Restructuring costs – Tobacco (82) (48)
Restructuring costs – Logistics (19) (13)
Operating proﬁ t 1,518 2,640 
Net ﬁ nance costs (437) (487)
Proﬁ t before tax 1,081 2,153 
Other segment information
£ million
2012 2011 
Additions to 
property, plant 
and equipment
Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation
Additions to 
property, plant 
and equipment
Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation
Tobacco
UK 39 21 27 26 
Germany 31 17 48 20 
Spain 9 10 16 10 
Rest of European Union 122 35 106 35 
Americas 14 7 15 6 
Rest of the World 68 46 109 37 
Total Tobacco 283 136 321 134 
Logistics 17 35 20 35 
Total Group 300 171 341 169 
Additional geographic analysis
External revenue and non-current assets are presented for the UK and for individually signiﬁ cant countries.
£ million
2012 2011 
External 
revenue
Non-current 
assets
External 
revenue
Non-current 
assets
UK 5,390 166 5,030 162 
Germany 3,931 3,064 4,147 3,325 
Spain 1,849 2,691 1,972 4,316 
France 3,814 3,160 3,992 3,479 
Rest of European Union 7,235 2,626 7,948 2,791 
Americas 1,223 2,908 1,408 3,074 
Rest of the World 5,132 5,035 4,726 5,396 
Total Group 28,574 19,650 29,223 22,543 
Non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments in associates. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
108
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
4 Proﬁ t Before Taxation
Proﬁ t before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
£ million 2012 2011 
Raw materials and consumables used 1,467 1,476 
Operating lease charges 62 65 
Net foreign exchange gains (86) (66)
Write down of inventories 27 28 
Proﬁ t on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (1)
Impairment of trade receivables 1 (1)
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates
£ million 2012 2011 
Audit of parent company and consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 0.4 0.4 
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 4.0 4.0 
Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.2 
Other assurance services 0.1 – 
4.8 4.6 
Tax advisory services 0.9 0.9 
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2 
Other services 0.3 0.3 
6.2 6.0 
5 Restructuring Costs
£ million 2012 2011 
Employment related 28 12 
Asset impairments 43 27 
Other charges 30 22 
101 61 
Restructuring costs in 2012 and 2011 included impairments of surplus properties in Spain to reﬂ ect current property market 
conditions, amounts related to integration of our American businesses, manufacturing rationalisation in Europe, and the streamlining 
of parts of our Logistics operations. During 2012 we closed our factories in Berlin, Palazuelo and Menen, rationalised our Asian 
administrative ofﬁ ces, and closed our ofﬁ ce in Farnham Royal in readiness for moving to our new purpose-built Headquarters in 
Bristol in 2013.
The net charge of £101 million in 2012 (2011: £61 million) included £29 million (2011: £30 million) of unused restructuring provisions 
reversed during the period, £33 million (2011: £30 million) of additional restructuring provisions and £43 million (2011: £27 million) 
impairment of tangible assets. The remaining charge of £54 million (2011: £34 million) was recorded directly in the income statement 
as incurred as these costs did not meet the provisioning requirements of IAS 37 at previous reporting periods.
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
6 Directors and Employees
Employment costs
£ million 2012 2011 
Wages and salaries 929 911 
Social security costs 189 202 
Pension costs (note 22) 45 67 
Share-based payments (note 25) 22 26 
1,185 1,206 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions 
requiring disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93. These disclosures 
form part of the ﬁ nancial statements. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
109
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Number of people employed by the Group during the year
2012 2011 
At 30 September Average At 30 September Average
Tobacco 31,000 30,900 31,600 31,200 
Logistics 6,200 6,400 6,600 6,700 
37,200 37,300 38,200 37,900
Number of people employed by the Group by location during the year
2012 2011 
At 30 September Average At 30 September Average
European Union 17,000 17,100 17,300 17,100 
Americas 8,600 8,600 9,100 9,100 
Rest of the World 11,600 11,600 11,800 11,700 
37,200 37,300 38,200 37,900
7 Net Finance Costs
£ million 2012 2011 
Interest on bank deposits (15) (18)
Expected return on retirement beneﬁ t assets (168) (178)
Fair value gains on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges (761) (445)
Exchange gains on ﬁ nancing activities (92) (144)
Investment income (1,036) (785)
Interest on bank and other loans 550 580 
Interest on retirement beneﬁ t liabilities 187 180 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans 8 8 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges 723 428 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments hedging underlying borrowings 5 76 
Finance costs 1,473 1,272 
Net ﬁ nance costs 437 487 
Reconciliation from reported net ﬁ nance costs to adjusted net ﬁ nance costs
£ million 2012 2011 
Reported net ﬁ nance costs 437 487 
Fair value gains on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges 761 445 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges (723) (428)
Exchange gains on ﬁ nancing activities 92 144 
Fair value losses on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments hedging underlying borrowings (5) (76)
Net fair value and exchange gains on ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges 125 85 
Expected return on retirement beneﬁ t assets 168 178 
Interest on retirement beneﬁ t liabilities (187) (180)
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plans (8) (8)
Post-employment beneﬁ t net ﬁ nancing cost (27) (10)
Adjusted net ﬁ nance costs 535 562  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
110
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
8 Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
£ million 2012 2011 
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 25% (2011: 27%) being the average rate for the year (112) (29)
Overseas taxation 490 350 
Total current tax 378 321 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 16 
Total tax charged to the income statement 382 337 
During the year ended 30 September 2012 certain outstanding matters were resolved with tax authorities. The reported tax charge 
for the period includes a release of £137 million (2011: £205 million) of tax provisions following resolution of these matters (outside 
of changes in estimates in the normal course of business). This signiﬁ cant one-off tax provision credit is excluded from the adjusted 
tax charge to aid comparability and understanding of the Group’s performance in accordance with our stated policy on the use of 
adjusted measures. 
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported proﬁ t before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted 
measure of earnings disclosed in note 10.
£ million 2012 2011 
Reported taxation 382 337 
Tax on acquisition accounting adjustments (1) – 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 69 77 
Tax on net fair value and exchange gains on ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial hedges (21) (23)
Tax on post-employment beneﬁ ts net ﬁ nancing cost 9 4 
Tax on restructuring costs 29 17 
Tax provisions released 137 205 
Adjusted tax charge 604 617 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax on the Group’s proﬁ t before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the average UK corporation tax 
rate for the year of 25 per cent (2011: 27 per cent) as follows:
£ million 2012 2011 
Proﬁ t before tax 1,081 2,153 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 25% (2011: 27%) 270 581 
Tax effects of:
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (145) (58)
Impairment of deferred tax assets 55 – 
Permanent differences 45 16 
Non-deductible goodwill impairment 296 – 
Tax provisions released (137) (205)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2) 3 
Total tax charged to the income statement 382 337 
Movement on current tax account
£ million 2012 2011 
At 1 October (392) (602)
Charged to the income statement (378) (321)
Credited to other comprehensive income 6 – 
Credited to equity 1 – 
Cash paid 442 529 
Exchange movements 8 1 
Other movements (4) 1 
At 30 September (317) (392) Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
111
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
9 Dividends
Dividend per share in respect of ﬁ nancial year
Pence 2012 2011 2010 
Interim 31.7 28.1 24.3 
Final 73.9 67.0 60.0 
Total 105.6 95.1 84.3 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and ﬁ nal dividends in respect of a year are paid and 
recognised in the following ﬁ nancial period.
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary equity holders in the year
£ million 2012 2011 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous ﬁ nancial year 669 608 
Interim dividend 314 284 
983 892 
The proposed ﬁ nal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2012 of 73.9p per share amounts to a proposed ﬁ nal dividend 
payment of £729 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2012, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2012 will be £1,043 million (2011: £953 million).
10 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the proﬁ t for the year attributable to the owners of the parent and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares 
purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account 
the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised. 
No instruments have been excluded from the calculation for any period on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
£ million 2012 2011 
Earnings: basic and diluted 678 1,796 
Millions of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 995.4 1,013.0 
Potentially dilutive share options 2.9 3.0 
Shares for diluted earnings per share 998.3 1,016.0 
Pence
Basic earnings per share 68.1 177.3 
Diluted earnings per share 67.9 176.8 
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share
£ million unless otherwise indicated
2012 2011 
Earnings 
per share 
(pence) Earnings
Earnings 
per share 
(pence) Earnings
Reported basic 68.1 678 177.3 1,796 
Acquisition accounting adjustments (0.9) (9) – – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 29.7 296 32.1 325 
Impairment of acquired intangibles 119.3 1,187 – – 
Net fair value and exchange gains on ﬁ nancial instruments 
providing commercial hedges (10.4) (104) (6.1) (62)
Post-employment beneﬁ ts net ﬁ nancing cost 1.8 18 0.6 6 
Restructuring costs 7.2 72 4.3 44 
Tax provisions released (13.8) (137) (20.2) (205)
Adjusted 201.0 2,001 188.0 1,904 
Adjusted diluted 200.4 2,001 187.4 1,904  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
112
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11 Intangible Assets
£ million
2012
Goodwill Trademarks
Supply 
agreements Software Total
Cost
At 1 October 2011 13,035 7,485 1,456 142 22,118 
Additions – – – 24 24 
Disposals/retirements – – – (6) (6)
Exchange movements (857) (466) (102) (9) (1,434)
At 30 September 2012 12,178 7,019 1,354 151 20,702 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2011 21 1,165 363 82 1,631 
Amortisation charge for the year – 271 94 21 386 
Impairment charge for the year 1,187 – – – 1,187 
Disposals/retirements – – – (5) (5)
Exchange movements – (70) (29) (7) (106)
At 30 September 2012 1,208 1,366 428 91 3,093 
Net book value
At 30 September 2012 10,970 5,653 926 60 17,609 
£ million
2011
Goodwill Trademarks 
Supply 
agreements Software Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2010 13,076 7,501 1,673 113 22,363 
Additions – – – 22 22 
Disposals/retirements – – (209) (5) (214)
Reclassiﬁ cations – – – 13 13 
Exchange movements (41) (16) (8) (1) (66)
At 30 September 2011 13,035 7,485 1,456 142 22,118 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2010 21 884 453 64 1,422 
Amortisation charge for the year – 280 122 18 420 
Disposals/retirements – – (209) (3) (212)
Reclassiﬁ cations – – – 5 5 
Exchange movements – 1 (3) (2) (4)
At 30 September 2011 21 1,165 363 82 1,631 
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 13,014 6,320 1,093 60 20,487 
Supply agreements include Logistics customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba. The exclusive supply 
arrangement in Morocco became fully amortised during the year ending 30 September 2011. All were acquired under the purchase 
of Altadis.
Intangible amortisation and impairment are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation and impairment in respect of acquired intangible assets are treated as reconciling items between reported operating 
proﬁ t and adjusted operating proﬁ t. The adjustment comprises the amortisation and impairment charges in respect of goodwill, 
trademarks and supply agreements.
An impairment charge of £1.2 billion was taken in 2012 in respect of goodwill relating to the Spanish market, which is explained in 
more detail below. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
113
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review
Goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁ nite lives are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs). For the Tobacco 
business these are based on the geographic areas in which the Group operates. A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indeﬁ nite lives is set out below.
£ million
2012 2011 
Goodwill
Intangible 
assets with 
indeﬁ nite lives Goodwill
Intangible 
assets with 
indeﬁ nite lives
Spain 218 – 1,511 – 
Other European Union 4,466 117 4,814 126 
Americas 1,776 102 1,842 106 
Rest of the World 2,663 315 2,868 340 
Cuban cigar joint ventures 281 242 291 252 
Tobacco 9,404 776 11,326 824 
Logistics 1,566 – 1,688 – 
10,970 776 13,014 824 
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 (mainly Other European Union and Rest of the World), 
Commonwealth Brands in 2007 (Americas) and Altadis in 2008 (all CGUs).
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁ nite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any 
indications that impairment may have arisen. The value of a CGU is based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use 
cash ﬂ ow projections derived from three year ﬁ nancial plans which are approved by the Board annually and are based on detailed 
bottom-up market-by-market forecasts of projected sales volumes for each product line. These forecasts reﬂ ect, on an individual 
market basis, numerous assumptions and estimates regarding anticipated changes in market size, prices and duty regimes, 
consumer uptrading and downtrading, consumer preferences and other changes in product mix, based on long-term market 
trends, market data, anticipated regulatory developments, and management experience and expectations. We consider that pricing, 
market size, market shares and cost inﬂ ation are the key assumptions used in our plans.
Growth rates and discount rates used
The compound annual growth rates implicit in these value-in-use calculations are shown below.
%
2012 2011 
Initial 
growth rate
Long-term 
rate
Initial 
growth rate
Long-term 
rate
Spain 1.7 1.5 10.9 2.7 
Other European Union 5.8 1.8 4.2 3.0 
Americas 5.0 2.5 10.4 3.0 
Rest of the World 12.0 4.0 11.8 3.0 
Cuban cigar joint ventures 9.7 4.0 7.6 3.0 
Logistics 7.4 1.7 4.3 3.0 
Cash ﬂ ows from the three year plan period are extrapolated out to year ﬁ ve using the growth rate implicit in the three year plan. 
Estimated long-term weighted average compound annual growth rates of between 1.5 per cent and 4.0 per cent per annum 
are used beyond year ﬁ ve. In addition to the initial growth rates shown above applied to cash ﬂ ows arising in existing markets, 
the valuation of the Cuban cigar joint ventures includes assumptions about the timing and extent of cash ﬂ ows from entry to 
new markets. 
Long-term growth rates are based on management’s long-term expectations, taking account of industry speciﬁ c factors such 
as the nature of our products, the role of excise in government ﬁ scal policy, and relatively stable and predictable long-term 
macro trends in the Tobacco industry. The long-term growth rate for Spain has been reduced in light of current uncertainty over 
prospects for the Spanish economy. Other long-term growth rates have also been revised in line with long-term growth trends in 
the relevant economies.
Discount rates used are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk proﬁ les of the CGUs. 
Pre-tax discount rates in 2012 ranged from 8.5 per cent to 13.1 per cent (2011: 8.7% to 11.3%).
Our impairment projections are prepared under the basis set out in IAS 36 which can differ from our internal plans. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
114
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11 Intangible Assets continued
Spain
The Spanish economy has been particularly affected by the euro crisis and the collapse in Spanish property prices, with high 
unemployment levels, regional and central government deﬁ cits, a banking sector bail-out, and the introduction of austerity 
measures. During 2012, and particularly in the second half of the ﬁ nancial year, the Spanish economy has deteriorated further, 
and we believe the timing of a recovery of the economy has receded while the current level of uncertainty has increased. In line 
with these developments we have updated our assumptions to reﬂ ect current market data for the purposes of impairment testing, 
and have consequently increased the discount rate applied to Spain to 13.1 per cent (from 10.6 per cent last year) and reduced 
the long-term growth rate to 1.5 per cent (from 2.7 per cent last year). The effect of the macro-economic conditions and the 
current downward revision of longer term assumptions have together resulted in an impairment of £1.2 billion of the goodwill in 
our Spanish business.
Further impairment of our Spanish intangible assets could result in the event of an increase in the discount rate, or a reduction in 
the initial or long-term growth rates, or a reduction in the value of overall cash ﬂ ows. An increase of 50 basis points in the discount 
rate would result in further impairment of £70 million, a reduction in the initial growth rate of 50 basis points in further impairment 
of £35 million, and a reduction of 50 basis points in the long-term growth rate in a further impairment of £45 million. A reduction 
of 5 per cent in overall cash ﬂ ows would result in a further impairment of £90 million.
Other CGUs
The impairment test for Americas indicated headroom of £100 million, and that an impairment would result in the event of either 
an increase in the discount rate of 25 basis points from 9.9 per cent, or a 75 basis point reduction in the short-term growth rate, 
or a 30 basis point reduction in the long-term growth rate, or a 3 per cent reduction in overall cash ﬂ ows. Our assumptions for the 
performance of the Americas business also take into account the beneﬁ ts we expect to arise from actions we have recently taken to 
strengthen the business, including the integration of our US businesses, a new management team and a revised strategy focused 
on key growth states.
We have previously reported that a reasonable movement in assumptions for the Cuban cigar joint ventures would result in an 
impairment. Due to continued strong growth in revenue and proﬁ tability of the joint ventures there is increased headroom in our 
impairment calculation. Accordingly we no longer consider that a reasonable movement in the key assumptions will result in an 
impairment of this CGU.
For the rest of the Group, any reasonable movement in the assumptions used in the impairment tests would not result in 
an impairment.
12 Property, Plant and Equipment
£ million
2012
Property
Plant and 
equipment
Fixtures and 
motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2011 1,125 1,576 437 3,138 
Additions 32 220 48 300 
Disposals (9) (41) (25) (75)
Reclassiﬁ cations 14 (3) (12) (1)
Exchange movements (76) (69) (19) (164)
At 30 September 2012 1,086 1,683 429 3,198 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2011 161 709 230 1,100 
Depreciation charge for the year 13 99 38 150 
Impairment 26 11 2 39 
Disposals (3) (28) (23) (54)
Reclassiﬁ cations 3 (1) (3) (1)
Exchange movements (16) (38) (7) (61)
At 30 September 2012 184 752 237 1,173 
Net book value
At 30 September 2012 902 931 192 2,025 
The net book value above includes property of £23 million (2011: £25 million) held under a ﬁ nance lease. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
115
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million
2011
Property
Plant and 
equipment
Fixtures and 
motor vehicles Total
Cost
At 1 October 2010 1,113 1,492 410 3,015 
Additions 8 270 63 341 
Disposals (5) (36) (17) (58)
Reclassiﬁ cations 16 (110) (13) (107)
Exchange movements (7) (40) (6) (53)
At 30 September 2011 1,125 1,576 437 3,138 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2010 118 720 206 1,044 
Depreciation charge for the year 16 91 44 151 
Impairment 27 – – 27 
Disposals (1) (21) (16) (38)
Reclassiﬁ cations 3 (64) (1) (62)
Exchange movements (2) (17) (3) (22)
At 30 September 2011 161 709 230 1,100 
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 964 867 207 2,038 
The impairment charges in 2012 and 2011 relate mainly to reductions in the carrying value of surplus property acquired through the 
Altadis acquisition to reﬂ ect current property market conditions, which have been treated as restructuring costs.
In 2011 certain spare parts and consumables of individually low value were reclassiﬁ ed from plant and equipment to other inventory 
as this better reﬂ ects their nature and pattern of usage. The net book value of these items was £31 million. Also during 2011 a 
number of other items were reclassiﬁ ed including £8 million, at net book value, of software from ﬁ xtures and motor vehicles to 
intangible assets.
13 Joint Ventures
The principal joint ventures are Corporación Habanos SA, Cuba and Altabana SL, Spain. Summarised ﬁ nancial information for the 
Group’s share of joint ventures, which are accounted for under the proportional consolidation method, is shown below:
£ million
2012
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total
Revenue 49 104 13 166 
Proﬁ t after taxation 15 18 2 35 
Non-current assets 184 8 3 195 
Current assets 38 62 12 112 
Total assets 222 70 15 307 
Current liabilities (35) (21) (2) (58)
Non-current liabilities (7) (1) – (8)
Total liabilities (42) (22) (2) (66)
Net assets 180 48 13 241 
£ million
2011
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total
Revenue 35 96 10 141 
Proﬁ t after taxation 10 13 1 24 
Non-current assets 196 11 6 213 
Current assets 48 59 12 119 
Total assets 244 70 18 332 
Current liabilities (45) (22) (3) (70)
Non-current liabilities (5) (1) – (6)
Total liabilities (50) (23) (3) (76)
Net assets 194 47 15 256  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
116
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
13 Joint Ventures continued
Transactions and balances with joint ventures
£ million 2012 2011 
Sales to 73 53 
Purchases from 97 77 
Accounts receivable from 11 8 
Current loans to 3 6 
Accounts payable to (13) (10)
14 Inventories
£ million 2012 2011 
Raw materials 1,006 928 
Work in progress 65 63 
Finished inventories 1,913 1,887 
Other inventories 148 177 
3,132 3,055 
Other inventories mainly comprise duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, 
because of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. We estimate that around 
£120 million (2011: £120 million) of leaf tobacco held within raw materials will not be utilised within a year of the balance sheet date.
During 2011 £31 million of spare parts were reclassiﬁ ed from plant and equipment to other inventories as this better reﬂ ects their 
pattern and nature of usage.
15 Trade and Other Receivables
£ million
2012 2011 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade receivables 2,910 – 2,790 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (58) – (55) – 
Net trade receivables 2,852 – 2,735 – 
Other receivables 73 80 76 81 
Prepayments and accrued income 104 18 86 19 
3,029 98 2,897 100 
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows:
£ million
2012 2011 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Within credit terms 2,759 – 2,664 – 
Past due by less than 3 months 57 – 56 – 
Past due by more than 3 months 36 – 15 – 
Amounts that are impaired 58 – 55 – 
2,910 – 2,790 – 
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents
£ million 2012 2011 
Cash at bank and in hand 608 1,153 
Short-term deposits and other liquid assets 23 18 
631 1,171 
£183 million (2011: £233 million) of cash and cash equivalents is held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer 
the funds abroad. Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a 
reasonable period of time. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
117
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
17 Trade and Other Payables
£ million
2012 2011 
Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade payables 1,036 – 1,169 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 5,594 – 6,015 – 
Other payables 151 – 126 – 
Accruals and deferred income 450 18 307 19 
7,231 18 7,617 19 
18 Borrowings and Finance Lease Liabilities
The Group’s borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities at amortised cost at the balance sheet date are as follows:
£ million 2012 2011
Current borrowings
Secured:
Finance lease liabilities 20  1 
Unsecured:
Bank loans and overdrafts 84  136 
Capital market issuance:
European commercial paper 1,150  521 
£350m 6.875% notes due June 2012 –  357 
€1,250m 5.0% notes due June 2012 –  1,090 
Total current borrowings 1,234  2,104 
Total current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities 1,254  2,105 
Non-current borrowings
Secured:
Finance lease liabilities –  22 
Unsecured:
Bank loans  –  34 
Capital market issuance:
€500m 5.125% notes due October 2013 418  450 
€1,200m 4.375% notes due November 2013 993  1,070 
€750m 7.25% notes due September 2014 600  647 
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 389  414 
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 1,258  1,356 
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 471  470 
€850m 4.5% notes due July 2018 682  738 
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 212  210 
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 509  509 
€750m 5.0% notes due December 2019 623  – 
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 1,054  1,053 
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 625  625 
£500m 5.5% notes due September 2026 499  500 
Total non-current borrowings 8,333  8,076 
Total non-current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities 8,333  8,098 
Total borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities 9,587  10,203 
Analysed as:
Borrowings 9,565  10,180 
Finance Lease Liabilities 20  23 
Overdrafts 2  –
Current borrowings and non-current borrowings at 30 September 2012 include interest payable of £2 million (2011: £19 million) and 
£285 million (2011: £278 million) respectively. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
118
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
18 Borrowings and Finance Lease Liabilities continued
Certain borrowings drawn under revolving credit facilities have been classiﬁ ed as non-current borrowings, in accordance with the 
ultimate maturity date of those facilities, but contractual cash ﬂ ows will be required within 12 months of the balance sheet date 
repaying such borrowings and they may then be redrawn subject to condition precedents being met.
The bank borrowings are ﬂ oating rate liabilities. The majority bear interest at rates set in advance by reference to LIBOR in the case 
of sterling and US dollars and to EURIBOR in the case of euro borrowings. The capital market issuances in place at 30 September 
2012 bear interest (before the effects of ﬁ nancial derivatives which are detailed in note 20) at a ﬁ xed rate throughout their life. 
The Group has not defaulted on any borrowings or ﬁ nance lease liabilities during the year (2011: no defaults).
Undrawn borrowing facilities
At 30 September the Group had the following undrawn committed facilities in respect of which all condition precedents had been 
met at that date.
£ million 2012 2011
Amounts expiring:
Within one year –  – 
Between one and two years 639  – 
Between two and ﬁ ve years 2,415  – 
In ﬁ ve years or more –  2,498 
 3,054  2,498 
Non-current ﬁ nancial liabilities
The maturity proﬁ le of the carrying amount of the Group’s non-current ﬁ nancial liabilities at 30 September (including net derivative 
ﬁ nancial liabilities detailed in note 20) was as follows:
£ million
2012 2011
Borrowings 
and overdrafts
Net derivative 
ﬁ nancial 
liabilities Total
Borrowings 
and overdrafts
Finance 
leases
Net derivative 
ﬁ nancial 
liabilities Total
Amounts expiring:
Between one and two years 2,011 (29) 1,982  –  22  253  275 
Between two and ﬁ ve years 2,118 34  2,152  3,971  –  1  3,972 
In ﬁ ve years or more 4,204 88  4,292  4,105  –  77  4,182 
 8,333 93  8,426  8,076  22  331  8,429
19 Financial Risk Factors
Financial risk management
Overview
In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to market, credit and liquidity risk. This note explains the Group’s exposure 
to these risks, how they are measured and assessed, and summarises the policies and processes used to manage them, including 
those related to the management of capital.
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, Group Treasury, which is responsible for the management of the ﬁ nancial risks 
of the Group, together with its ﬁ nancing and liquidity requirements. It does not operate as a proﬁ t centre, nor does it enter into 
speculative transactions. The Group Treasury Committee (GTC) oversees the operation of Group Treasury in accordance with terms 
of reference set out by the Board. The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions. The GTC currently comprises the 
Group Finance Director and other senior management from Group Finance and Planning, Group Sales, Group Marketing, Investor 
Communications and Group Treasury.
The GTC agrees a framework which sets out the current expectations and boundaries to assist in the effective oversight of Group 
Treasury activities, covering all key areas within Group Treasury. The Group Treasurer reports on a regular basis to the Board, 
including the provision of a monthly treasury report which is also provided to the GTC.
Market risk
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies, foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and non-sterling derivatives. Currently, the Group’s ﬁ nancial results are 
principally exposed to gains or losses arising from ﬂ uctuations in sterling, euro and US dollar exchange rates. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
119
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Translation risk
The Group has a policy of managing its balance sheet translation risk by funding material acquisitions and the underlying material 
business assets with borrowings (post cross currency swaps) in the currency of the underlying net assets. This also results in foreign 
currency operating proﬁ ts being partially offset by foreign currency interest costs thereby minimising the translation exposure on 
foreign currency proﬁ ts after tax.
The Group issues debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new ﬁ nance and has a policy of 
using derivative ﬁ nancial instruments, such as cross currency swaps and foreign exchange swaps where necessary, to change the 
debt into the desired currency.
Transaction risk
Material costs denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of subsidiaries include the purchase of tobacco leaf, 
which is sourced from various countries but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging materials which are sourced from 
various countries and purchased in a number of currencies. After taking into account other US dollar inﬂ ows the Group currently 
does not consider this foreign exchange cash ﬂ ow risk to be material enough to hedge.
The Group’s sterling dividend to shareholders is partly sourced from foreign subsidiary earnings. In order to manage the foreign 
exchange cash ﬂ ow risk, and to provide greater certainty as to the amount of sterling available to pay expected future dividends, 
the Group has entered into transactional cross currency swaps maturing between now and 2015 that will convert expected euro 
dividends from subsidiaries into sterling.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the Group’s currency exposures arising on ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities held by Group companies in 
currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
£ million
2012
 GBP  EUR  USD  Other 
Financial assets:
Trade and other receivables 5 – 79 2 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
1
– 1,978 564 350 
Cash and cash equivalents 58 19 127 4 
Intra-group assets – 4,475 1,518 58 
63 6,472 2,288 414 
Potential impact on income statement – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value (6) (588) (208) (38)
10% decrease in functional currency value 7 719 254 46 
Potential impact on other comprehensive income – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – – – – 
10% decrease in functional currency value – – – – 
Financial liabilities:
Trade and other payables 1 4 21 – 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
1
– 4,363 1,184 113 
Borrowings – 5,404 113 27 
Intra-group liabilities – 10,638 718 206 
1 20,409 2,036 346 
Potential impact on income statement – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – 684 185 29 
10% decrease in functional currency value – (837) (226) (35)
Potential impact on other comprehensive income – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – 1,171 – 2 
10% decrease in functional currency value – (1,431) – (3)
1 Amounts represent the notional amounts of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
120
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
19 Financial Risk Factors continued
£ million
2011
 GBP  EUR  USD  Other 
Financial assets:
Trade and other receivables 5  –  77  3 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
1
 –  2,339  –  – 
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  36  4 
Intra-group assets –  3,242  2,280  49 
 5  5,581  2,393  56 
Potential impact on income statement – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – (507) (217) (5)
10% decrease in functional currency value 1 620 266 6 
Potential impact on other comprehensive income – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value –  –  –  – 
10% decrease in functional currency value –  –  –  – 
Financial liabilities:
Trade and other payables –  1  8  – 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
1
–  4,639  1,240  150 
Borrowings 1  5,494  –  2 
Intra-group liabilities –  11,210  699  317 
 1  21,344  1,947  469 
Potential impact on income statement – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – 677 171 41 
10% decrease in functional currency value – (828) (210) (49)
Potential impact on other comprehensive income – (loss)/gain
10% increase in functional currency value – 1,263 6 2 
10% decrease in functional currency value – (1,544) (7) (3)
1 Amounts represent the notional amounts of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
The above movements in foreign exchange rates are considered to represent reasonably possible changes. Other larger or smaller 
changes are also possible. The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt and the proportion 
of ﬁ nancial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the net investment hedge designations in place at 
30 September. The sensitivity analysis does not reﬂ ect any change to revenue or non-ﬁ nance costs that may result from changing 
exchange rates and ignores any tax effects.
The effect in the income statement from foreign exchange rate movements primarily relates to ﬁ nancial instruments that 
commercially hedge Group exposures, but which are not accounted for as hedges under IAS 39 although commercially effective 
(see note 20 for hedge accounting). This value is expected to be substantially offset by related movements through other 
comprehensive income and, accordingly, any residual gain or loss is excluded from our adjusted performance measures.
At 30 September 2012, approximately 24% (2011: 24%) of reported net debt was denominated in sterling, 56% in euro 
(2011: 51%) and 20% in US dollars (2011: 25%).
Interest rate risk
Cash ﬂ ow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents. Borrowings at variable rates expose the 
Group to cash ﬂ ow interest rate risk. Borrowings at ﬁ xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Group Treasury 
monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments providing commercial cash ﬂ ow hedges and ﬁ nance lease liabilities. The Group manages its interest rate exposure on 
a regular basis and reports the position monthly to the Board and GTC.
The Group transacts interest rate swaps to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk. Historically, the Group chose to 
convert newly issued ﬁ xed rate debt into ﬂ oating rates at the time of issue, executing ﬁ xing transactions in accordance with the 
interest rate risk management framework and GTC approval as and when deemed appropriate.
At 30 September 2012, after adjusting for the effect of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments detailed in note 20, 31% (2011: 26%) of 
reported net debt was at a ﬂ oating rate of interest and 69% (2011: 74%) was at a ﬁ xed rate of interest. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
121
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The table below illustrates the effect on the income statement and other comprehensive income of movements in interest rates 
related to variable rate ﬁ nancial instruments.
£ million
2012
 Total  GBP  EUR  USD  Other 
Net debt
1
8,956 3,420 5,872 (20) (316)
Less: ﬁ xed rate debt (8,353) (3,390) (4,963) – – 
Variable rate debt 603 30 909 (20) (316)
Adjust for the effect of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 2,151 597 1,461 140 (47)
Net variable rate debt exposure 2,754 627 2,370 120 (363)
+/- 100bps change
Potential impact on income statement 27 6 24 1 (4)
+/- 100bps change
Potential impact on other comprehensive income – – – – – 
1 Excluding net derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
£ million
2011
 Total  GBP  EUR  USD  Other 
Net debt
1
 9,032  3,771  5,569  84  (392)
Less: ﬁ xed rate debt (9,489) (3,724) (5,765) –  – 
Variable rate debt (457) 47  (196) 84  (392)
Adjust for the effect of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 2,777  765  1,899  113  – 
Net variable rate debt exposure 2,320  812  1,703  197  (392)
+/- 100bps change
Potential impact on income statement 23  8  17  2  (4)
+/- 100bps change
Potential impact on other comprehensive income –  –  –  –  – 
1 Excluding net derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
The above movements in interest rates are considered to represent reasonably possible changes. Other larger or smaller changes 
are also possible. The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt and the ratio of ﬁ xed to 
ﬂ oating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio are all constant.
The impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates reﬂ ects the effect on net ﬁ nance costs in respect of the Group’s 
ﬂ oating rate debt at 30 September, and ignores any tax effects.
Interest rate proﬁ les of ﬁ nancial liabilities
The following table sets out the timing of contractual repricing of the underlying borrowings (excluding derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments but including ﬁ nance lease liabilities) exposed to either ﬁ xed interest rates or ﬂ oating interest rates and revises this 
for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
£ million
2012 2011
 Total 
borrowings
 Effect of 
derivatives
 Total 
exposure
 Total 
borrowings
 Effect of 
derivatives
 Total 
exposure
Financial liabilities:
Repricing due:
Within one year 1,254 2,151 3,405  2,105  2,800  4,905 
Between one and two years 2,011 (1,780) 231  22  1,033  1,055 
Between two and ﬁ ve years 2,118 1,501 3,619  3,971  (1,933) 2,038 
In ﬁ ve years or more 4,204 (1,872) 2,332  4,105  (1,900) 2,205 
Total interest bearing 9,587 – 9,587  10,203  –  10,203 
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest 8,353 (2,151) 6,202 9,512 (2,800) 6,712 
Floating rate interest 1,234 2,151 3,385  691  2,800  3,491 
Total interest bearing 9,587 – 9,587  10,203  –  10,203 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
122
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
19 Financial Risk Factors continued
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk or ﬁ nancial instrument price risk other than its pension assets disclosed in 
note 22. The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be ﬂ uctuations in the price of tobacco leaf. As with other 
agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations inﬂ uence tobacco 
plantings in those countries where tobacco is grown. Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that 
may affect crop quality or supply and so lead to changes in price. The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco 
leaf from a number of different countries and counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held. Currently, these 
techniques reduce the expected exposure to this risk to levels considered not material and accordingly, no sensitivity analysis 
has been presented.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from its trade receivables due from customers, as well as from cash and cash deposits 
and the mark-to-market of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments transacted with ﬁ nancial institutions.
Trade and other receivables
The Group has some signiﬁ cant concentrations of customer credit risk. However, the Group has implemented policies to ensure that 
sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and obtains guarantees or other means of credit support 
to reduce the risk where this is considered necessary. Analysis of trade and other receivables is provided in note 15.
Financial instruments
The Group has a policy of having no concentrations of credit risk from ﬁ nancial institutions that are in excess of limits agreed by the 
Board. The Group has placed cash deposits and entered into derivative ﬁ nancial instruments with a diversiﬁ ed group of ﬁ nancial 
institutions with suitable credit ratings in order to manage its credit risk to any one ﬁ nancial institution. Utilisation of credit limits is 
regularly monitored and to reduce credit exposures, the Group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for 
ﬁ nancial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances. In limited cases, collateral is 
pledged against derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities and these are supported by an ISDA Credit Support Annex in each case.
The table below summarises the Group’s major ﬁ nancial institution counterparties by credit rating and balances at 30 September:
Counterparty
2012 2011
S&P 
credit rating
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk 
£ million
S&P 
credit rating
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk
£ million
Financial institution A A+ 128 A+ 223 
Financial institution B A- 115 AA 131 
Financial institution C A 113 AA 127 
Financial institution D AA- 92 AA 112 
Financial institution E A 74 A 98 
Financial institution F A 64 A- 95 
Financial institution G A 59 A 90 
Management do not expect these counterparties to default on their current obligations.
The Group considers its maximum aggregate credit risk to be £4,443 million at 30 September 2012 (2011: £4,613 million).
Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, which represents having insufﬁ cient funds to meet the ﬁ nancing needs of the Group. 
To manage this risk the Group has a policy of actively maintaining a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities 
that are designed to ensure that the Group has sufﬁ cient available funds for the forecast requirements of the Group over the short to 
medium term. To prevent over-reliance on individual sources of liquidity, funding is provided by a range of instruments including bank 
loans, credit facilities, commercial paper and corporate bonds. Management routinely perform stress tests and sensitivity analyses 
on these forecasts, which are subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee. Undrawn borrowing facilities are detailed in note 18.
As well as forecasting and monitoring the Group’s core liquidity needs, the Group Treasury function is in regular dialogue with 
subsidiary companies to ensure their liquidity needs are met. Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital 
and retained earnings, loans from central ﬁ nance companies on commercial terms, or in some limited cases through local 
borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies. Available liquidity from subsidiary companies is remitted to Group 
Treasury where practical and possible on a regular basis. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
123
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The table below summarises the Group’s ﬁ nancial liabilities by maturity based on their contractual cash ﬂ ows. The contractual cash 
ﬂ ows disclosed in the table include interest to be paid, are undiscounted and have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant 
balance sheet date.
£ million
2012
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash ﬂ ows
Total <1 year
Between 
1 and 2 years
Between 
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities:
Bank loans 84 84 84 – – – 
Capital market issuance 9,483 13,103 1,695 2,422 3,091 5,895 
Trade payables 1,036 1,036 1,036 – – – 
Finance lease liabilities 20 20 20 – – – 
Total non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities 10,623 14,243 2,835 2,422 3,091 5,895 
Total derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities – 
note 20 911 1,264 232 151 372 509 
£ million
2011
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash ﬂ ows
Total <1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities:
Bank loans 170  170  170  –  –  – 
Capital market issuance 10,010  13,355  2,520  511  5,011  5,313 
Trade payables 1,169  1,169  1,169  –  –  – 
Finance lease liabilities 23  25  3  22  –  – 
Total non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities 11,372  14,719  3,862  533  5,011  5,313 
Total derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities – 
note 20 1,061  1,427  368  217  446  396 
Capital management
The Group manages the capital structure in an efﬁ cient manner in order to minimise the cost of capital whilst ensuring access to 
ongoing sources of ﬁ nance such as the debt capital markets. The Group deﬁ nes capital as adjusted net debt (see note 30) and 
equity attributable to owners of the parent company (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). The only externally 
imposed capital requirements for the Group are interest cover and gearing covenants under the terms of the ECP Facility and 
Bank Bridge Facility, with which we have fully complied during both the current period and the prior period.
The Group manages the capital structure to maintain an investment grade credit rating and has and will continue to take the 
appropriate measures to maintain this, including consideration of the return of capital to shareholders through an appropriate mix 
of share buy backs and dividends.
Fair value estimation and fair values of ﬁ nancial assets and ﬁ nancial liabilities
The fair values of ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities with maturities less than one year, other than derivatives, are considered to be 
approximate to their book values. All derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are valued using techniques based signiﬁ cantly on observable 
market data such as yield curves and foreign exchange rates (Level 2 classiﬁ cation hierarchy of IFRS 7).
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all ﬁ nancial liabilities that are carried in the ﬁ nancial 
statements at amounts other than fair values.
All ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities are carried at amortised cost, other than derivative ﬁ nancial instruments that are carried at fair value. 
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are approximate to their fair value and so 
are excluded from the analysis below. Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are excluded as they are carried at fair value.
£ million
2012 2011
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
Current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities:
Sterling 50 50  383  395 
Euro 1,162 1,162  1,616  1,642 
US dollars 1 1  106  106 
Other 41 41  –  – 
Total current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities 1,254 1,254  2,105  2,143 
Non-current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities:
Sterling 3,370 4,374  3,389  4,056 
Euro 4,963 5,581  4,709  5,148 
Total non-current borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities 8,333 9,955  8,098  9,204 
Within the table above, it is only the capital market issuances that have a fair value different to the carrying value and this has been 
calculated by comparing the current trading levels to par. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
124
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
20 Derivative Financial Instruments
£ million
 2012 2011
 Assets  Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Current derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
Interest rate swaps and swaptions 205 175  155  158 
Forward foreign currency contracts 11 9  –  29 
Cross currency swaps 37 9  28  218 
Total current derivatives 253 193  183  405 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit 
support annex documents under ISDA agreements 13 (11) 40 (104)
266 182  223  301 
Non-current derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
Interest rate swaps and swaptions 620 652  429  491 
Cross currency swaps 19 138  –  403 
Total non-current derivatives 639 790  429  894 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit 
support annex documents under ISDA agreements (3) (61) – (134)
636 729  429  760 
Total carrying value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 902 911  652  1,061 
Net liability 9  409 
Maturity of obligations under derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments have been classiﬁ ed in the balance sheet as current or non-current according to their undiscounted 
contractual cash settlements applying spot rates as required. Any collateral transferred to counterparties in respect of derivative 
ﬁ nancial liabilities has been classiﬁ ed consistently with the related underlying derivative.
£ million
2012
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash ﬂ ows 
Total <1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between 
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Liabilities:
Net settled derivatives 791 1,101 172 144 362 423 
Gross settled derivatives 120 
– receipts (2,377) (1,274) (307) (90) (706)
– payments 2,540 1,334 314 100 792 
911 1,264 232 151 372 509 
£ million
2011
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash ﬂ ows
Total <1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Liabilities:
Net settled derivatives 652  851  173  152  356  170 
Gross settled derivatives 409
– receipts (8,531) (3,046) (1,233) (2,003) (2,249)
– payments 9,107  3,241  1,298  2,093  2,475 
1,061 1,427 368 217 446 396 
Derivatives as hedging instruments
The Group has entered into various cross currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, interest rate swaps and swaptions to 
manage foreign exchange and interest rate risk arising on ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities. These risks are discussed in more detail in 
note 19.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efﬁ cient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging 
requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, 
and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash ﬂ ow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments. However, the Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives 
as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise income 
statement volatility. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
125
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Applied as commercial hedges
As mentioned in note 19, interest rate risk on Group borrowings is managed by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most 
appropriate at the time of raising new ﬁ nance and then using derivative ﬁ nancial instruments where necessary to change the debt 
into the appropriate proportions of ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating interest rates in accordance with the interest rate risk management framework.
Interest rate swaps and swaptions
The notional amount of interest rate swaps entered into to change newly issued debt into ﬂ oating rate borrowings was 
£7,492 million equivalent (2011: £8,291 million). The fair value of these swaps was a net asset of £788 million (2011: net asset 
of £582 million). The interest rates transacted under these swaps are as follows:
 – Sterling denominated: ﬁ xed rate received varies from 7.5% to 8.7% (2011: 7.5% to 8.7%) against a ﬂ oating rate paid of LIBOR 
plus 301bps to 511bps (2011: 301bps to 511bps).
 – Euro denominated: ﬁ xed rate received varies from 3.9% to 8.0% (2011: 3.9% to 8.0%) against a ﬂ oating rate paid of EURIBOR 
plus 55bps to 503bps (2011: 55bps to 503bps).
 – USD denominated: ﬁ xed rate received varies from 4.2% to 5.5% (2011: 4.2% to 5.5%) against a ﬂ oating rate paid of LIBOR 
plus 175bps to 285bps (2011: 175bps to 285bps).
The notional amount of interest rate swaps entered into to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk was £7,337 million 
equivalent (2011: £9,025 million). The fair value of these swaps was a net liability of £705 million (2011: net liability of £647 million). 
The interest rates transacted under these swaps are as follows:
 – Sterling denominated: ﬁ xed rate paid varies from 3.0% to 5.7% (2011: 3.0% to 6.1%) against receiving LIBOR.
 – Euro denominated: ﬁ xed rate paid varies from 2.0% to 5.1% (2011: 2.0% to 5.1%) against receiving EURIBOR.
 – US dollar denominated: ﬁ xed rate paid varies from 1.4% to 4.7% (2011: 1.4% to 4.8%) against receiving LIBOR.
Certain of these interest rate swaps have embedded options. Assumptions have been made based on market information and from 
counterparties expectations at 30 September 2012 to determine whether, and if so when, such options are likely to be exercised 
in order to determine the probable maturity date. The actual maturity date could be earlier or later depending upon future market 
conditions and a cancellation would not result in a cash ﬂ ow other than in respect of interest outstanding at the cancellation date. 
The effect of the cancellation of any of these interest rate swaps would be to reduce the proportion of the Group’s borrowings 
that was at a ﬁ xed rate, increasing the Group’s exposure to cash ﬂ ow interest rate risk. Shortly after any such cancellation Group 
Treasury would, if deemed necessary as part of the management of interest rate risk, transact further interest rate swaps to replace 
the cancelled swaps. The embedded options are as follows:
 – £15 million interest rate swap maturing in 2031 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every six months throughout the 
life of the trade. This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2021.
 – £50 million interest rate swap maturing in 2041 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every ﬁ ve years throughout the 
life of the trade. This trade is expected to be cancelled in April 2021.
 – €1,200 million interest rate swaps maturing in 2013 where the counterparty has the option to cancel every three months 
throughout the life of the trade. These trades are not expected to be cancelled before their maturity date.
Additionally, the Group has entered into several forward starting interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of £1,135 million 
equivalent (2011: £2,307 million equivalent) with tenors extending between 5 and 10 years, starting between October 2012 and 
May 2017 (2011: April 2012 and May 2017). The fair value of these swaps was a net liability of £73 million (2011: net liability of 
£256 million).
During the year, the Group sold options to two counterparties providing them with the right to transact interest rate swaps with 
notional values of €100 million and £100 million. The options are available for exercise by the counterparty on 27 March 2014 
and 30 April 2014 and if exercised, would result in the Group paying ﬁ xed rates of 2.79% and 2.72% respectively for 5 years. 
The fair value of these swaps was a net liability of £13 million.
The overall effect of interest rate swaps live at 30 September 2012 is to convert £6,202 million equivalent (2011: £6,711 million 
equivalent) of ﬂ oating borrowings into ﬁ xed rates in order to manage the Group’s exposure to cash ﬂ ow interest rate risk.
Forward foreign currency contracts
The Group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures. As at 
30 September 2012 the notional amount of these contracts was £2,373 million equivalent (2011: £1,608 million equivalent) 
and the fair value of these swaps and contracts was a net asset of £2 million (2011: net liability of £29 million). Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
126
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
20 Derivative Financial Instruments continued
Cross currency swaps
The Group has entered into currency swaps to manage foreign exchange cash ﬂ ow risk associated with converting euro 
dividends from subsidiaries into sterling. As at 30 September 2012 the notional amount of these contracts was £2,311 million 
equivalent (2011: £3,605 million) and the fair value of these swaps was a net asset of £9 million (2011: net liability of £257 million). 
Principal amounts are exchanged at the start and maturity of these trades.
The Group has entered into currency swaps to convert issued debt into the desired currency and type of interest rate. As at 
30 September 2012 the notional amount of these contracts was £1,828 million equivalent (2011: £2,231 million equivalent) and 
the fair value of these swaps was a net liability of £100 million (2011: net liability of £336 million). Principal amounts are exchanged 
at the start and maturity of these trades.
As detailed in note 19, the overall effect of ﬁ nancial derivatives is to convert £6,202 million equivalent (2011: £6,711 million 
equivalent) of ﬂ oating borrowings into ﬁ xed rate borrowings.
Designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations
At 30 September 2012 external loans with a carrying value of €6,424 million (2011: €5,224 million and US$100 million) and cross 
currency swaps with a notional value of €2,922 million (2011: €4,555 million) have been designated as hedges of the net investment 
in the Group’s foreign operations. To the extent that these hedges are effective, gains or losses on the retranslation of these 
borrowings and derivatives are recognised as other comprehensive income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net 
investments in the Group’s foreign operations. Permanent intra-group loans with a fair value of €6,792 million (2011: €6,365 million) 
have been treated as a reduction in investments in the Group’s foreign operations.
During the year, as a result of net investment hedging, foreign exchange gains amounting to £1,143 million (2011: £5 million gain) 
were transferred to reserves through other comprehensive income.
Reconciliation of fair value gain/loss on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments
The movements in the carrying value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments in the year were as follows:
£ million
2012
Fair value attributable to interest 
rate movements recognised in:
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
movements 
recognised in:
Total
Comprehensive 
income
Income 
statement
Income 
statement
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments:
Gains arising on commercial hedges (note 7) – 122 639 761 
Losses arising on commercial hedges (note 7) – (157) (566) (723)
Losses offsetting underlying borrowings (note 7) – (5) – (5)
Gains arising on instruments designated as net investment hedges 288 – – 288 
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 288 (40) 73 321 
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2011 (409)
Collateral transferred in respect of certain derivative 
ﬁ nancial liabilities (196)
Cash payments on settlement of matured derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments 275 
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2012 (9)
£ million
2011
Fair value attributable to interest 
rate movements recognised in:
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
movements 
recognised in:
Total
Comprehensive 
income
Income 
statement
Income 
statement
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments:
Gains arising on commercial hedges (note 7) – 7 438 445 
Losses arising on commercial hedges (note 7) – (7) (421) (428)
Losses offsetting underlying borrowings (note 7) – (76) – (76)
Gains arising on instruments designated as net investment hedges 12 – – 12 
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 12 (76) 17 (47)
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2010 (440)
Collateral transferred in respect of certain derivative 
ﬁ nancial liabilities 34 
Cash payments on settlement of matured derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments 44 
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2011 (409) Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
127
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁ scal authority. The following amounts, determined after 
appropriate offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet. 
£ million 2012 2011 
Deferred tax assets 142 102 
Deferred tax liabilities (1,877) (2,056)
(1,735) (1,954)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months
£ million 2012 2011 
Deferred tax assets 32 56 
Deferred tax liabilities (100) (125)
(68) (69)
Deferred tax assets
£ million
2012
Fixed and 
intangible 
assets
Retirement 
beneﬁ ts
Fair value 
movements
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2011 (65) 100 – 67 102 
Credited/(charged) to income statement 14 (11) (1) 37 39 
Credited to other comprehensive income – 79 – – 79 
Credited to equity – – – 1 1 
Transfers (50) 8 4 (47) (85)
Other movements – – – (4) (4)
Exchange movements 34 (18) – (6) 10 
At 30 September 2012 (67) 158 3 48 142 
£ million
2011
Fixed and 
intangible 
assets
Retirement 
beneﬁ ts
Fair value 
movements
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2010 (67) 94 – 123 150 
Credited/(charged) to income statement 47 2 – (38) 11 
Transfers (47) 4 – (16) (59)
Exchange movements 2 – – (2) – 
At 30 September 2011 (65) 100 – 67 102 
Deferred tax liabilities
£ million
2012
Fixed and 
intangible 
assets
Retirement 
beneﬁ ts
Fair value 
movements
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2011 (2,365) 58 4 247 (2,056)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 54 – – (97) (43)
Credited to other comprehensive income – 17 – – 17 
Transfers 50 (8) (4) 47 85 
Exchange movements 138 (4) – (14) 120 
At 30 September 2012 (2,123) 63 – 183 (1,877)
£ million
2011
Fixed and 
intangible 
assets
Retirement 
beneﬁ ts
Fair value 
movements
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2010 (2,442) 48 5 315 (2,074)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 19 7 (1) (52) (27)
Charged to other comprehensive income – (21) – – (21)
Transfers 48 25 – (14) 59 
Exchange movements 10 (1) – (2) 7 
At 30 September 2011 (2,365) 58 4 247 (2,056)
Within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £24 million (2011: £88 million) are recognised for tax losses carried 
forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax beneﬁ t through future taxable proﬁ ts is probable.  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
128
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities continued
During the period, the Group has obtained a ruling from an overseas tax authority conﬁ rming the availability of tax losses 
(£539 million) previously regarded as not available. Due to the uncertainty of future taxable proﬁ ts no deferred tax asset has 
been recognised for these losses. As at the balance sheet date, deferred tax assets of £593 million (2011: £18 million) have not 
been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions. Of these 
unrecognised deferred tax assets, £539 million (2011: nil) losses are expected to expire at approximately £60 million per annum 
between 2013 and 2021, £12 million (2011: £12 million) are expected to expire within 5 years and £38 million (2011: nil) are 
expected to expire between 2024 and 2029. 
Also within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £48 million (2011: £113 million) are recognised for tax credits carried 
forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax beneﬁ t through future taxable proﬁ ts is probable. Deferred tax assets of 
£57 million have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the credits. These unrecognised deferred 
tax assets are expected to expire between 2016 and 2021. 
We have reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets in an overseas territory in the light of further deterioration in economic 
indicators and a change in the Group’s ﬁ nancing arrangements. Consequently, we have impaired deferred tax assets of £55 million 
relating to losses and tax credits previously recognised on the basis that it is more likely than not that these are not recoverable.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been recognised is £8 billion (2011: £8 billion). A provision of £6 million (2011: £8 million) has been made for 
taxation expected to arise on a planned future dividend payment of £92 million from one subsidiary. No liability has been recognised 
in respect of other differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, 
and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The rate of UK corporation tax was reduced by 2 per cent from 26 per cent to 24 per cent from 1 April 2012 and a further reduction 
to 23 per cent from 1 April 2013 was enacted at the balance sheet date. A further reduction of 1 per cent is expected to be enacted 
as from 1 April 2014. The effect of this further reduction of 1 per cent, if applied to the deferred tax balance at 30 September 2012, 
would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by £2 million.
22 Retirement Beneﬁ t Schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁ t schemes for its employees, including both deﬁ ned beneﬁ t and deﬁ ned 
contribution schemes. The Group’s two principal schemes are ﬁ nal salary deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes and are operated by Imperial 
Tobacco Limited in the UK and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany. The UK scheme’s assets are held in trustee 
administered funds while the German scheme is unfunded. The UK deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme was closed to new members with 
effect from 1 October 2010 and since that date new employees are offered a deﬁ ned contribution scheme instead.
The results of the most recent actuarial valuation for the principal UK scheme have been updated to 30 September 2012 by 
Towers Watson Limited, actuaries and consultants, in order to determine the amounts to be included in the Group’s consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements. Actuarial valuations of the pension liabilities of other schemes of the Group were made as at or updated to 
30 September 2012 by the various actuaries to those schemes.
Amounts recognised in the income statement
£ million 2012 2011 
Current service cost 43 51 
Past service cost (18) (5)
Losses from special termination beneﬁ ts 2 3 
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t costs in operating proﬁ t 27 49 
Interest on retirement beneﬁ t liabilities 187 180 
Expected return on retirement beneﬁ t assets (168) (178)
Retirement beneﬁ ts net ﬁ nancing costs in net ﬁ nance costs (note 7) 19 2 
Total deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme cost 46 51 
Deﬁ ned contribution costs in operating proﬁ t 18 18 
Total retirement beneﬁ t scheme costs in the income statement 64 69 
Retirement beneﬁ t scheme costs charged to operating proﬁ t
£ million 2012 2011 
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t costs in operating proﬁ t 27 49 
Deﬁ ned contribution costs in operating proﬁ t 18 18 
Total retirement beneﬁ t scheme costs in operating proﬁ t 45 67  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
129
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Which is split as follows in the income statement: 
£ million 2012 2011 
Cost of sales 33 32 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 22 24 
Administrative and other expenses (10) 11 
Total retirement beneﬁ t scheme costs in operating proﬁ t 45 67 
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes – amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
£ million 2012 2011 
Present value of funded obligations (3,361) (2,943)
Fair value of scheme assets 3,099 2,876 
(262) (67)
Present value of unfunded obligations (784) (687)
(1,046) (754)
Recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as:
£ million 2012 2011 
Retirement beneﬁ t assets – 5 
Retirement beneﬁ t liabilities (1,046) (759)
(1,046) (754)
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme obligations – changes in present value
£ million 2012 2011 
At 1 October 3,630 3,802 
Current service cost 43 51 
Past service cost (18) (5)
Special termination beneﬁ ts 2 3 
Interest cost 187 180 
Actuarial losses/(gains) 588 (199)
Contributions by employees 3 3 
Beneﬁ ts paid (212) (202)
Exchange movements (78) (3)
At 30 September 4,145 3,630 
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme assets – changes in fair value
£ million 2012 2011 
At 1 October 2,876 2,960 
Expected return on scheme assets 168 178 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 184 (158)
Contributions by employees 3 3 
Contributions by employer 101 94 
Beneﬁ ts paid (212) (202)
Exchange movements (21) 1 
At 30 September 3,099 2,876 
The actual return on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme assets was a gain of £352 million (2011: gain of £20 million).
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
£ million 2012 2011 
Net actuarial losses/(gains) 404 (41)
Cumulative net actuarial losses since 1 October 2004 809 405  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
130
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22 Retirement Beneﬁ t Schemes continued
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme – principal actuarial assumptions used in scheme valuations
%
2012
UK Germany Other 
Discount rate 4.30 3.60 3.56 
Expected return on scheme assets 5.70 n/a 4.86 
Future salary increases 4.30 3.10 3.66 
Future pension increases 2.80 2.00 1.35 
Inﬂ ation 2.80 2.00 2.20 
%
2011
UK Germany Other 
Discount rate 5.40 5.41 5.28 
Expected return on scheme assets 6.24 n/a 5.50 
Future salary increases 4.70 3.10 3.71 
Future pension increases 3.20 2.00 1.91 
Inﬂ ation 3.20 2.00 2.22 
Other represents the weighted averages of the rates used for schemes outside the UK and Germany.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent increase in the discount rate for all plans would increase the IAS 19 pension expense by 
approximately £0.3 million and a 0.5 per cent decrease would reduce the pension expense by £1.3 million. We estimate that a 
0.5 per cent decrease/(increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase/(decrease) the IAS 19 pension expense 
by approximately £15.1 million.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each 
territory, and are provided in the table below for the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes in the UK and Germany, which in aggregate represent 
84 per cent (2011: 84 per cent) of the Group’s total deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme obligations at the year end. The average life expectancy, 
in years, of a pensioner retiring at age 65 is as follows:
2012
UK Germany
Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 21.0 22.9 18.6 22.6 
Member currently aged 50 22.1 24.1 20.6 24.6 
2011
UK Germany
Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 20.9 22.8 18.4 22.5 
Member currently aged 50 22.0 24.0 20.5 24.5 
Categories of scheme assets and their expected rates of return
£ million unless otherwise indicated
2012
UK Other
Expected return 
per annum 
% Fair value
Percentage of 
UK assets 
%
Expected 
return 
per annum
% Fair value
Percentage of 
other assets 
%
Equities 7.0 1,189 44.0 7.2 134 34.1 
Bonds 3.4 920 34.0 3.9 216 54.9 
Property 6.4 325 12.0 5.5 13 3.2 
Other 7.0 271 10.0 4.2 31 7.8 
2,705 100.0 394 100.0
£ million unless otherwise indicated
2011
UK Other
Expected return 
per annum 
% Fair value
Percentage of UK 
assets 
%
Expected return 
per annum
% Fair value
Percentage of 
other assets 
%
Equities 7.6 1,153 46.0 7.4 126 34.0
Bonds 4.4 877 35.0 4.4 203 54.9 
Property 7.1 276 11.0 5.5 11 3.0 
Other 5.7 200 8.0 4.4 30 8.1 
2,506100.0 370100.0 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
131
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The derivation of the overall expected return on assets reﬂ ects the actual asset allocation at the measurement date combined with 
an expected return for each asset class. The bond return is based on current market yields. The corporate bond yield has been 
reduced to allow for an element of default risk. The return on equities and property is based on a number of factors including the 
income yield at the measurement date, the long-term growth prospects for the economy in general, the long-term relationship 
between each asset class and bond returns, and the movement in market indices since the previous measurement date.
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund investments in ﬁ nancial 
instruments of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC amounted to £3 million (2011: £3 million).
History of the plans
£ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
At 30 September
Present value of deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligations 4,145 3,630 3,802 3,592 2,874 
Fair value of total plan assets 3,099 2,876 2,960 2,798 2,769 
Net total (deﬁ cit)/surplus on plans (1,046) (754) (842) (794) (105)
Experience (loss)/gain on total plan liabilities (36) (24) 63 8 (18)
Experience gain/(loss) on total plan assets 184 (158) 146 (58) (633)
UK scheme triennial valuation and contribution levels
Following completion in 2011 of the triennial valuation of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (ITPF – the main UK Group scheme) as 
at 31 March 2010 the level of employer’s contributions to this scheme was increased from nil to £31 million per year as set by the 
ITPF actuary. This level of contribution will be reviewed again at the next triennial valuation in 2013 at which time future payments 
may be increased or decreased.
In relation to the triennial valuation, the assumptions which had the most signiﬁ cant effect when valuing the ITPF’s liabilities were 
those relating to the rate of investment return on the ITPF’s existing assets, the rates of increase in pay and pensions and estimated 
mortality rates. On the basis that the ITPF is continuing, it was assumed that the future investment returns relative to market values 
at the valuation date would be 5.5 per cent per annum and that pay and pension increases would average 5.0 per cent and 
3.5 per cent respectively. The assets were brought into account at their market value.
At 31 March 2010 the market value of the invested assets of the ITPF was £2,622 million. The total assets were sufﬁ cient to cover 
100 per cent of the beneﬁ ts that had accrued to members for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. 
The total assets were sufﬁ cient to cover 88 per cent of the total beneﬁ ts that had accrued to members for past service and future 
service beneﬁ ts for current members.
23 Provisions
£ million Restructuring Other Total 
At 1 October 2011 351 357 708 
Additional provisions charged to the income statement 33 25 58 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and social plan liabilities 8 – 8 
Amounts used (120) (47) (167)
Unused amounts reversed (29) (23) (52)
Exchange movements (22) (20) (42)
At 30 September 2012 221 292 513 
Analysed as:
£ million 2012 2011 
Current 103 163 
Non-current 410 545 
513 708 
Restructuring provisions relate primarily to European Integration projects announced in June 2008 as part of the integration of 
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis. They affect sales and marketing, manufacturing and central support functions in a number of markets 
and have largely been implemented. The remaining provisions which include employee social plans are expected to be used over 
the next ten years. 
Other provisions principally relate to commercial legal claims and disputes. The majority of other provisions represent the fair value at 
acquisition of current and potential Altadis commercial disputes, litigation and duty claims arising in the normal course of business. 
These liabilities are expected to crystallise within the next ﬁ ve years.
24 Share Capital
£ million 2012 2011 
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2011: 1,067,942,881) 107 107  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
132
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Share Schemes 
The Group operates three types of share-based incentive programmes, designed to incentivise staff and to encourage them to build 
a stake in the Group.
Share Matching Scheme
Awards are made to eligible employees who are invited to invest a proportion of their share matching scheme eligible bonus in 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares for a period of three years, after which additional shares are awarded on a 1:1 ratio.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Awards of shares under the LTIP are made to the Executive Directors and senior executives at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. They vest three years after grant and are subject to performance criteria based on adjusted EPS growth and total 
shareholder returns compared to the FTSE 100 and a comparator group.
Sharesave Plan
Options are granted to eligible employees who participate in a designated savings scheme for a three or ﬁ ve year period.
Further details of the schemes including additional criteria applying to directors and some senior executives are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93.
Analysis of charge to the consolidated income statement
£ million 2012 2011 
Share Matching Scheme 17 17 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2 6 
Sharesave Plan 3 3 
22 26 
The awards are predominantly equity settled. The balance sheet liability in respect of cash settled schemes at 30 September 2012 
was £2.1 million (2011: £1.6 million).
Reconciliation of movements in awards/options
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
2012
Share matching 
awards LTIP awards
Sharesave 
options
Sharesave 
weighted 
average 
exercise 
price £
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 2,981 1,089 2,157 14.64 
Granted 856 349 610 20.45 
Lapsed/cancelled (174) (264) (97) 15.77 
Exercised (925) (245) (871) 12.96 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 2,738 929 1,799 17.31 
Exercisable at 30 September 2012 – – 107 15.59
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
2011
Share matching 
awards LTIP awards
Sharesave 
options
Sharesave 
weighted 
average 
exercise 
price £
Outstanding at 1 October 2010 2,770 1,034 2,217 14.19 
Granted 1,214 491 428 17.80 
Lapsed/cancelled (192) (253) (132) 15.26 
Exercised (811) (183) (356) 15.41 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011 2,981 1,089 2,157 14.64 
Exercisable at 30 September 2011 – – 74 16.97 
The weighted average Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share price at the date of exercise of awards and options was £24.20 
(2011: £19.77). The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted during the year was £3.55 (2011: £4.77). Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
133
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Summary of awards/options outstanding at 30 September 2012
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Number of 
awards/options 
outstanding
Vesting period 
remaining in 
months
Exercise price 
of options 
outstanding £
Share Matching Scheme
2010 842 4 n/a 
2011 1,054 16 n/a 
2012 842 28 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 2,738 
Long Term Incentive Plan
2009 243 1 n/a 
2010 337 13 n/a 
2011 349 25 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 929 
Sharesave Plan
2007 10 – 14.96 
2008 17 10 17.50 
2009 261 22 12.55 
2010 502 14 15.63 
2011 402 24 17.80 
2012 607 37 20.45 
Total options outstanding 1,799 
The vesting period is the period between the grant of awards or options and the earliest date on which they are exercisable. 
The vesting period remaining and the exercise price of options outstanding are weighted averages. Participants in the Sharesave 
Plan have six months from the maturity date to exercise their option. Participants in the LTIP have seven years from the end of the 
vesting period to exercise their option. The exercise price of the options is ﬁ xed over the life of each option, except that following the 
rights issue in 2008, adjustments were made to the share plans outstanding at that time. In respect of the Share Matching Scheme, 
the Trustees sold sufﬁ cient rights ‘nil paid’ to enable the balance of the rights to be taken up. In the case of the Sharesave Plan 
and LTIP , the number of shares under option or subject to awards was adjusted by the relevant bonus factor. In the case of the 
Sharesave Plan the option price was also adjusted by the relevant bonus factor.
Pricing 
For the purposes of valuing options to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been 
used for the Share Matching Scheme and Sharesave Plan. A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 
2012 and 2011 is as follows.
2012 2011
Share matching Sharesave Share matching Sharesave
Risk-free interest rate % 0.5 0.7 – 1.3 2.0 1.1 – 2.4 
Volatility (based on 3 or 5 year history) % 24.7 23.1 – 31.5 34.1 31.5 – 33.4 
Expected lives of options granted years 3 3 – 5 3 3 – 5 
Dividend yield % 4.7 4.7 4.4 4.4 
Fair value £ 21.46 3.51 – 4.94 17.34 4.15 – 5.39 
Share price used to determine exercise price £ 24.73 25.56 19.79 22.24 
Exercise price £ n/a 20.45 n/a 17.80 
Market conditions were incorporated into the Monte Carlo method used in determining the fair value of LTIP awards at grant date. 
Assumptions in 2012 and 2011 are given in the following table.
% 2012 2011 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 22 28 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 4.7 4.4 
Share price volatility of the tobacco and alcohol comparator group 18 – 44 21 – 50 
Share price volatility of the FTSE 100 comparator group 18 – 104 21 – 116 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 35 35 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the FTSE 100 comparator group 40 40  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
134
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Share Schemes continued
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Beneﬁ t Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee 
Beneﬁ t Trust (the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the 
exercise and vesting of options and awards. The purchase of shares by the Trusts has been ﬁ nanced by a gift of £19.2 million 
(2011: £19.2 million) and an interest free loan of £181.9 million (2011: £181.9 million). In addition the Group has gifted treasury 
shares to the Trusts. None of the Trusts’ shares has been allocated to employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2012. 
All ﬁ nance costs and administration expenses connected with the Trusts are charged to the consolidated income statement as they 
accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic 
earnings per share.
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Millions of shares 2012 2011 
At 1 October 4.8 3.8 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1.8) (1.2)
Gift of treasury shares 1.1 1.2 
Purchase of shares – 1.0 
At 30 September 4.1 4.8 
The shares in the Trusts are accounted for on a ﬁ rst in ﬁ rst out basis and comprise 1.8 million (2011: 1.5 million) shares acquired in 
the open market at a cost of £23.3 million (2011: £28.2 million) and 2.3 million (2011: 3.3 million) treasury shares gifted to the Trusts 
by the Group, of which 1.1 million were gifted in the ﬁ nancial year 2012 (2011: 1.2 million).
26 Treasury Shares
On 16 May 2011, the Group recommenced its share buyback programme at the rate of around £500 million per annum as an 
efﬁ cient means of returning surplus funds to shareholders. Shares purchased under the buyback programme are not cancelled but 
are retained in issue and represent a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the parent (see Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity). During 2012 the Group purchased 21,865,000 shares under the programme (2011: 8,673,000) at a cost of 
£528 million (2011: £182 million).
Thousands of shares 2012 2011 
At 1 October 57,007 49,569 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1,070) (1,235)
Purchase of treasury shares 21,865 8,673 
At 30 September 77,802 57,007 
Percentage of issued share capital % 7.3 5.3 
27 Commitments
Capital commitments
£ million 2012 2011 
Contracted but not provided for:
Property, plant and equipment 123 147 
Operating lease commitments
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due:
£ million 2012 2011 
Property
Within one year 35 30 
Between one and ﬁ ve years 80 73 
Beyond ﬁ ve years 16 11 
131 114  Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
135
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
28 Legal Proceedings
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and 
health-related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which 
are being vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe 
that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash ﬂ ow or ﬁ nancial 
condition of the Group. Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amounts in respect of these cases in the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements.
In August 2012 Imperial Tobacco Ukraine (ITU) received a decision from the State Tax Service Department seeking to apply ﬁ nancial 
sanctions equivalent to approximately £87 million. The alleged violation is that ITU acted in contravention of the law on state 
regulation of production and circulation of alcohol and tobacco, by engaging in the wholesale trade of tobacco without the correct 
licence for the period from July 2011.
ITU ﬁ led an appeal against the decision in the Circuit Administrative Court in Kiev primarily on the basis that it has at all times 
held the correct licence to trade and does not engage in wholesale trade in tobacco from its branches. Hearings took place in 
September and October 2012, and on 23 October the court upheld ITU’s appeal.
The State Tax Service Department is entitled to appeal to the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal within ten days of receiving 
the court’s written reasons for its decision. As a consequence of the court’s decision and on the basis of the advice ITU has 
received that it has a strong case on the legal arguments, the Group has not provided for any amount in the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements in respect of this matter.
29 Cash Flows from Operating Activities
£ million 2012 2011 
Proﬁ t for the year 699 1,816 
Adjustments for:
Taxation 382 337 
Investment income (1,036) (785)
Finance costs 1,473 1,272 
Share of post-tax loss of associates – 1 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,762 598 
Proﬁ t on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (1)
Loss on disposal of software 1 2 
Post-employment beneﬁ ts (74) (45)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes 20 26 
Movement in provisions (161) (130)
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movement in working capital 3,066 3,091 
Increase in inventories (305) (39)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (285) 80 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 85 (47)
Movement in working capital (505) (6)
Taxation paid (442) (529)
Net cash ﬂ ows from operating activities 2,119 2,556 
30 Net Debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and ﬁ nance lease liabilities in the year 
were as follows:
£ million
Cash and cash 
equivalents
Current 
borrowings
Non-current 
borrowings
Finance lease 
liabilities
Derivative 
ﬁ nancial 
instruments Total
At 1 October 2011 1,171 (2,104) (8,076) (23) (409) (9,441)
Cash ﬂ ow (438) 729 (578) 2 79 (206)
Accretion of interest – 23 (13) – – 10 
Change in fair values – – – – 321 321 
Exchange movements (102) 118 334 1 – 351 
At 30 September 2012 631 (1,234) (8,333) (20) (9) (8,965) Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
136
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
30 Net Debt continued
Analysis by denomination currency
£ million
2012
GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents – 221 20 390 631 
Total borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities (3,420) (6,093) – (74) (9,587)
(3,420) (5,872) 20 316 (8,956)
Effect of cross currency swaps 1,150 678 (1,828) – – 
(2,270) (5,194) (1,808) 316 (8,956)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (9)
Net debt (8,965)
£ million
2011
GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 1 756 22 392 1,171 
Total borrowings and ﬁ nance lease liabilities (3,772) (6,325) (106) – (10,203)
(3,771) (5,569) (84) 392 (9,032)
Effect of cross currency swaps 1,500 731 (2,231) – –
(2,271) (4,838) (2,315) 392 (9,032)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (409)
Net debt (9,441)
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of 
derivative ﬁ nancial instruments providing commercial cash ﬂ ow hedges and ﬁ nance lease liabilities.
£ million 2012 2011 
Reported net debt (8,965) (9,441)
Accrued interest 287 297 
Fair value of derivatives providing commercial hedges (94) 290 
Finance lease liabilities 20 23 
Adjusted net debt (8,752) (8,831)
31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
£ million 2012 2011 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (438) 416 
Settlement of exchange rate derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 275 44 
(Decrease)/increase in collateralisation deposits (196) 34 
Increase in borrowings (1,335) (1,785)
Repayment of borrowings 1,486 1,837 
Repayment of ﬁ nance leases 2 2 
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂ ows (206) 548 
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 331 (52)
Exchange movements 351 87 
Movement in net debt during the year 476 583 
Opening net debt (9,441) (10,024)
Closing net debt (8,965) (9,441) Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
137
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
We have audited the parent company ﬁ nancial statements of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 
2012 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. 
The ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors 
and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and for being 
satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial 
Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁ cant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁ nancial and non-
ﬁ nancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁ nancial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁ nancial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 30 September 2012;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
ﬁ nancial year for which the parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent 
company ﬁ nancial statements. 
Matters on Which We Are Required to 
Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 – the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by 
law are not made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁ nancial 
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year 
ended 30 September 2012.
David Charles (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Bristol 
30 October 2012 Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
138
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
£ million Notes 2012 2011 
Fixed assets
Investments iii 4,225 3,035 
Current assets
Debtors iv 3,297 5,659 
Cash at bank and in hand 185 98 
Net current assets 3,482 5,757 
Total assets 7,707 8,792 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital v 107 107 
Share premium account vi 5,833 5,833 
Proﬁ t and loss account vi 1,767 2,852 
Total shareholders’ funds 7,707 8,792 
The ﬁ nancial statements on pages 138 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 October 2012 and signed on its 
behalf by:
 
Iain Napier  Robert Dyrbus
Chairman Director
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet
at 30 September Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
139
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
i Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention, 
the Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, no separate proﬁ t and loss account has been presented for the 
Company. As permitted by FRS 29, the Company has elected not to present FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in the 
notes to its individual ﬁ nancial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented in the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements. 
As permitted by FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Investments
Investments comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Dividends
Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, dividends 
receivable are recognised as an asset when they are approved, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the 
dividends are paid.
Financial Instruments
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial assets are classiﬁ ed as cash and debtors. Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be 
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂ ows, and is recognised in the proﬁ t and loss 
account. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Treasury Shares
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. 
When such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental 
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, increases shareholders’ funds.
ii Dividends
Dividend per share in respect of ﬁ nancial year
Pence 2012 2011 2010 
Interim 31.7 28.1 24.3 
Final 73.9 67.0 60.0 
Total 105.6 95.1 84.3 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and ﬁ nal dividends in respect of a year are paid and 
recognised in the following ﬁ nancial period.
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year
£ million 2012 2011 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous ﬁ nancial year 669 608 
Interim dividend 314 284 
983 892 
The proposed ﬁ nal dividend for the year ended 30 September 2012 of 73.9p per share amounts to a proposed ﬁ nal dividend 
payment of £729 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2012, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2012 will be £1,043 million (2011: £953 million). 
iii Investments
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited
£ million 2012 2011 
At 1 October 3,035 3,035 
Additions 1,190 – 
At 30 September 4,225 3,035 
During the period the Company increased its investment in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited as part of a legal entity 
reorganisation in the normal course of business. 
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
A list of the principal subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 141 and 142.
Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
140
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC continued
iv Debtors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
£ million 2012 2011 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 3,297 5,659 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no ﬁ xed date for repayment and are repayable on demand.
v Called Up Share Capital
£ million 2012 2011 
Issued and fully paid
1,067,942,881 ordinary shares of 10p each (2011: 1,067,942,881) 107 107 
vi Reserves
£ million
Share premium 
account
Proﬁ t and loss 
account
At 1 October 2011 5,833 2,852 
Proﬁ t for the year – 426 
Dividends – (983)
Purchase of own shares – (528)
At 30 September 2012 5,833 1,767 
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the proﬁ t and loss account of the Company is not presented. The proﬁ t 
attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the ﬁ nancial statements of the Company, is £426 million (2011: £2,807 million). This is after 
charging an audit fee of £0.4 million (2011: £0.4 million).
Treasury shares
On 16 May 2011, the Company recommenced its share buyback programme at the rate of around £500 million per annum as an 
efﬁ cient means of returning surplus funds to shareholders. Shares purchased under the buyback programme are not cancelled but 
are retained in issue and represent a deduction from shareholders’ funds. During the year the Company purchased 21,865,000 
shares under the programme (2011: 8,673,000) at a cost of £528 million (2011: £182 million).
Thousands of shares 2012 2011 
At 1 October 57,007 49,569 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1,070) (1,235)
Purchase of treasury shares 21,865 8,673 
At 30 September 77,802 57,007 
Percentage of issued share capital % 7.3 5.3 
vii Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
£ million 2012 2011 
Proﬁ t for the year 426 2,807 
Dividends (983) (892)
Purchase of own shares (528) (182)
Movements in total shareholders’ funds (1,085) 1,733 
Opening total shareholders’ funds 8,792 7,059 
Closing total shareholders’ funds 7,707 8,792 
viii Guarantees
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary 
undertakings, including various Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2012, the contingent liability totalled £9,378 million 
(2011: £9,308 million).
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements as at 30 September 
2012 and which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not ﬁ le separate ﬁ nancial statements 
with the Chamber of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued declarations to assume any and 
all liabilities for any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements as at 
30 September 2012. The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, have therefore 
availed themselves of the exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect of documents 
required to be attached to the annual returns for such companies.
The Directors have assessed the fair value of the above guarantees and do not consider them to be material. They have therefore 
not been recognised on the balance sheet.
ix Related Party Disclosures
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93. 
These disclosures form part of the ﬁ nancial statements. Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
141
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group, which are unlisted unless otherwise indicated, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned
Name Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in 
the UK
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Altadis SAU Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco 
products in Spain
Altadis Distribution France SAS France Distribution of tobacco products in France
Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU Spain Finance company
Altadis Finance BV Netherlands Finance company
Altadis Middle East Fzco United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East
Altadis USA Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United 
States of America
Commonwealth-Altadis Inc United States of America Sales and distribution of tobacco products in the United 
States of America
Commonwealth Brands Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the 
United States of America
Compañía de Distribución Integral 
Logista SAU
Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain
Ets. L. Lacroix Fils NV Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Belgium
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco China Limited China Marketing of tobacco products in China
Imperial Tobacco CR sro Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the 
Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland
Imperial Tobacco Hellas SA Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl Italy Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg 
Dohänyforgalmazö Kft
Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Maroc SA Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco 
products in Morocco
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar Republic of Ireland Manufacture of ﬁ ne cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Norway AS Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco Polska SA Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Polska 
Manufacturing SA
Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck 
Sanayi ve Ticaret AS
Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia AS Slovak Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the 
Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing 
Company Limited
Taiwan Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis ve 
Pazarlama AS
Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine
Principal Undertakings Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
142
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned continued
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
OOO Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
ZAO Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl CJSC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
John Player SA Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands
John Player & Sons Limited Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic 
of Ireland
Logista Italia SpA Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Germany
Skruf Snus AB Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Sweden
Société Nationale d’Exploitation 
Industrielle des Tabacs et Allumettes SAS
France Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in 
France and export of tobacco products
Supergroup SAS France Wholesale distribution in France
Tobaccor SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in 
the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products 
in Africa
Tobacna Ljubljana doo Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland BV Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in 
the Netherlands
800 JR Cigar Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in 
the sale of cigars in the United States of America
Incorporated overseas, partly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
Imperial Tobacco TKS ad Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in Macedonia
99.1
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in Kyrgyzstan
98.6
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco 
products in the Ivory Coast
74.1
Incorporated overseas, joint ventures
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned 
Altabana SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 
involved in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars
50.0
Corporación Habanos SA Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0
Partnerships
The Group also owns the following partnership:
Name Country Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA) GmbH & Co KG Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany
Principal place of business: 
Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, 
D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
The subsidiaries listed above were held throughout the year. 
The consolidated Group ﬁ nancial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception 
of Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held 
by the Company. A full list of undertakings is attached to the Annual Return of the Company. 
The percentage of issued share capital held by the immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same 
except for Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by 
a number of Group companies.
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA is listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
Principal Undertakings continued Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
143
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 Registered Ofﬁ ce
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
+44 (0)117 963 6636
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
0871 384 2037*
+44 (0)121 415 7009
0871 384 2255* text phone for shareholders with hearing difﬁ culties
*  calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary. 
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
ADR Depositary
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence, RI 02940-3077
USA
Toll-free number in the USA:1-877-CITI-ADR (1-877-248-4237)
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
20 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 4AD
+44 (0)20 7425 8000
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited
One Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QJ
+44 (0)20 7888 5313
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
31 Great George Street
Bristol BS1 5QD
Lawyers
Allen & Overy LLP
One Bishops Square
London E1 6AD
Ashurst LLP
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Shareholder Information Overview Performance Strategic Review Risk Governance
144
Financials
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Calendar and Dividends
Half yearly results are expected to be announced in April 2013 and the full year’s results in November 2013.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on Wednesday 30 January 2013 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with 
this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2012 ﬁ nal dividend, if approved, will be on 18 February 
2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2013. The associated ex dividend date will be 
16 January 2013.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form 
obtainable from Equiniti, at the address shown.
Share Dealing Service
A low cost, execution only share dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares is 
available from NatWest Stockbrokers. NatWest Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority 
and is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS. For details please contact NatWest Stockbrokers, Premier Place, 
2
1
/2 Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4BA, telephone: 0808 208 4433.
Individual Savings Account (ISA)
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
Investment Account where they can hold their Imperial Tobacco Group ordinary shares electronically. The ISA and Investment 
Account are operated by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Commission starts from £5.00 and £1.75 respectively for the sale 
and purchase of ordinary shares.
For a brochure or to apply for an ISA or Investment Account go online to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti on 
0845 300 0430*. 
* calls to this number will be charged at local rate from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend 
to buy further Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti, 
telephone: 0871 384 2268* (+44 (0)121 415 7173) or online at www.shareview.co.uk.
* calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary. 
American Depositary Receipt Facility
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the OTCQX International Premier platform in the form of American 
Depositary Shares (ADSs) using the symbol ‘ITYBY’. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. 
The ADS facility is administered by Citibank, N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
Website
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com.
Equiniti also offers a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices 
and dividend details and ﬁ nd practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholder Information continued Index
A
Accounting Policies  101,139
Adjusted Earnings Per Share 4
Adjusted Measures 104
Africa  31
Algeria 31
American Depositary 
Receipts/Shares  143, 144
Americas 30
Analysis of Net Debt 135
Annual General Meeting  72, 144
Asia-Pacific 31
Assurance 50
Audit Committee  68
Auditors
Remuneration  108
Report  95, 137
Australia  31
Austria 30
B
Balance Sheet (Consolidated)  98
Balance Sheet (Parent)  138
Belgium  30
Board Committees  63
Board of Directors 60
Borrowings and Finance 
Lease Liabilities 117
Business Model 2
C
Cash and Cash Equivalents  116
Cash Conversion Rate 11
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  135
Cash Flow Statement  100
Chad 31
Chairman’s Introduction 5
Chairman’s Introduction to Governance 58
Charitable and Political Donations 73
Chief Executive’s Review  8
China 31
Commitments  134
Compliance 50
Congo 31
Consumer Insights 20
Contents  1
Corporate Governance Report  70
Corporate Responsibility Review 37
Anti-illicit Trade 42
Carbon Disclosure Project 45
Climate Change 45
Employment Policies 44
Environmental Performance 45
Leaf Partnership 47
Non-tobacco Materials 47
Partnership Investment 47
PwC Assurance 41
Regulatory Engagement 42
Reinvesting in Society 47
Respecting Natural Resources 45
Responsible Sourcing 47
Responsibility Strategy 37
Responsible with Products 42
Rewarding Workplace 43
Stakeholder Panel 47
Tobacco and Health 42
Values, Capabilities, Engagement 43
Workplace Health and Safety 43
Côte D’Ivoire 31
Creditor Payment Policy  73
Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements 105
Customer Engagement 17
Czech Republic 30
D
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 127
Derivative Financial Instruments 124
Directors 
Biographies 60
Interests in Shares  79
Pensions 82, 91
Remuneration  77
Responsibilities  75
Directors and Employees  108
Disclosure Committee 51
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)  144
Dividends  36, 73, 111, 144
E
Earnings Per Share  111
Eastern Europe 31
Employees  108
Eurozone 54
Excise Duty 53
F
Financial Calendar  144
Financial Review 34
Financial Risk Factors 118
Financial Statements  94
Financing 55
France  30
G
Germany  29
Going Concern 36
Governance 50, 56
Group Performance 26
H
Hungary 30
I
Illicit Trade 52
Income Statement 96
Innovation 15
Introduction IFC
Intangible Assets 112
Inventories  116
Italy 30
J
Joint Ventures 115
K
Key Enablers 20
Key Performance Indicators  4, 11
L
Laos  31
Legal Proceedings  135
Litigation  55, 75
Liquidity 36
Logistics 33
M
Market Place 54
Middle East 31
Morocco 31
N
Net Debt 135
Net Finance Costs 109
Netherlands  30
Norway 30
New Zealand 31
Nominations Committee  66
Notes to the Financial Statements 101
Notes to the Financial Statements 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 139
O
Office of Fair Trading 74
Operation and Supply Chain Alignment 20
Operating Executive 63
Operating Review 28
P
Pensions 73, 128
People 12
Poland  30
Portfolio Management 14
Pricing 16
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 52
Principal Undertakings 141
Profit Before Taxation 108
Property, Plant and Equipment 114
Provisions  131
R
Reconciliation of Cash Flow to 
Movement in Net Debt 136
Registrars  143, 144
Regulation 53
Remuneration Committee  77
Remuneration Report  77
Rest of EU 30 
Rest of the World  31 
Restructuring Costs 108
Retirement Benefit Schemes 128
Revenue Performance 34
Risk Management 48
Russia  22, 31
S
Sales Growth Drivers 14
Saudi Arabia 31
Segment Information  106
Shaping our Environment 21
Share Buyback Programme 36, 134
Share Capital  72, 131
Share Schemes 79, 132
Shareholder Information  143
Spain  30 
Spanish Intangibles 35
Statement of Changes in Equity  99
Statement of Comprehensive Income 97
Stick Equivalent Volumes 4, 11
Strategy  7
Sweden 30
T
Taiwan  31
Taxation  110
Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin 11
Tobacco Net Revenue 11
Total Shareholder Return  4
Total Tobacco 18
Trade and Other Payables 117
Trade and Other Receivables 116
Treasury Shares 134
U
Ukraine  31
United Kingdom  29 
United States of America 30
V
Values 13, 43
Vietnam 31  Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
PO Box 244
Upton Road
Bristol BS99 7UJ
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® Company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals 
are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Symbol Freelife Matt Plus, a paper 
containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, sustainable, 
FSC® certified forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
