 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
A Stronger 
Business WHO WE ARE
We’re an international fast-moving consumer goods company with 
a strong track record of creating value for shareholders. 
Our core business is built around a tobacco portfolio that offers 
consumers comprehensive brand choice, and we’re also creating 
new consumer experiences through our non-tobacco subsidiary 
Fontem Ventures.
We’re proud of our success and excited about the future; the strength 
of our brands, our geographic diversity and the talents of our dynamic 
people are a winning combination for generating high-quality growth in 
the years ahead.
Brands
Our Growth Brands 
and Specialist Brands 
highlight the quality in 
our portfolio and have 
significant potential for 
future growth.
Markets
The strategic role that 
each market plays in our 
success story defines 
how it is managed, with 
markets prioritising either 
Growth or Returns.
People
Our values express 
what we stand for and 
capture the individual and 
collective behaviours we 
expect from everyone 
who works for us.
I am
We can
We enjoy
We surprise
I own
I engage
Growth Returns Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
For a more interactive experience visit: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Dividends Per Share
+1 0%
128.1p
Tobacco Net Revenue
1
+2%
2
£6.6bn
Cash Conversion
+5%
91%
Growth Brand Volumes
+7%
2
131bn
Adjusted Earnings 
Per Share
1
+2%
203.4p
Adjusted Operating Profit
1
+0%
£3bn
Adjusted Net Debt Reduction
-1 1%
£1bn
1  Changes in our adjusted results are 
presented on a constant currency basis.
2  Underlying change.
 See explanation in the Performance 
Measures table below.
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
 Performance Highlights 1
 How We Create Value 2
 Strengthening our Business 4
 Chairman’s Statement 6
STRATEGY
 Chief Executive’s Review 7
 Key Performance Indicators 11
PERFORMANCE
 Operating Review 12
 Financial Review 15
 Corporate Responsibility 17
 Risk Management 21
 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s Introduction 27
Board of Directors 28
The Board and its Committees 30
Directors’ Report 42
Directors’ Remuneration Report 46
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AND NOTES
Independent Auditors’ Report 66
Consolidated Income Statement 72
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 73
Consolidated Balance Sheet 74
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 75
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76
Notes to the Financial Statements 77
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 115
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 116
Notes to the Financial Statements of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 117
SUPPLEMENTARY 
INFORMATION
Principal Undertakings 120
Shareholder Information 123
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS CONTENTS
Performance Measures
Measure Explanation Where used
Reported (GAAP) Complies with International Financial 
Reporting Standards and the relevant 
legislation.
Throughout the report.
Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Non-GAAP measures provide a useful 
comparison of performance from one period 
to the next. These measures are deﬁ ned in 
the Accounting Policies on page 77.
Throughout the report.
Constant currency 
basis
Removes the effect of exchange rate 
movements on the translation of the 
results of our overseas operations.
Throughout the report.
Underlying change Removes the impact of our stock 
optimisation programme in order to reﬂ ect 
management’s estimate of the underlying 
performance by adjusting for the one-off 
fall in sales arising from the reduction in 
excess stock held in distribution channels.
Throughout the report 
but only for Growth 
Brand volumes, 
tobacco net revenue 
and adjusted earnings 
per share. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Sales
Growth
Pricing
Portfolio
Management
Sales Growth Drivers
Our Strategy and Business Model
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Strategy
Our strategy enables us to deliver sustainable growth and sustainable returns to shareholders. 
We use consumer insights and selected sales growth drivers to build sales of our Growth and 
Specialist Brands across our markets. We cluster these markets to generate either Growth 
or Returns. We target long-term share and profit growth in Growth Markets and prioritise 
sustainable profit performance, while actively managing our strong share positions, in Returns 
Markets. Effective cost and cash management supports our sales ambitions.
Sales Growth Drivers
We focus on portfolio management, innovation, customer engagement and pricing to 
maximise opportunities for quality sustainable growth. These four sales growth drivers 
are used to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands in all our markets.
Find out more on page 8. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Business Model 
Our business model shows how we create value. Our focus on quality sustainable sales 
growth, combined with the efficient way we manage costs, delivers high operating margins. 
This generates the strong cash flows that are a hallmark of our business. We use this cash 
to reinvest in the business, pay down debt or return to shareholders.
Sales
Strong
Cash
Flow
High
Margin
Proﬁts
Reinvest
Maximising
Shareholder
Returns
How we Support Growth
Strong Governance
High standards 
of governance 
are critical to our 
sustainability.
Find out more on page 27
Acting Responsibly
Operating 
responsibly is 
integral to the way 
we do business.
Find out more on page 17
Managing Risk
We actively identify, 
manage and mitigate 
the risks facing 
our business.
Find out more on page 21
Rewarding Success
Our people are 
rewarded fairly and 
incentivised to deliver 
our sales strategy.
Find out more on page 46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4
Growth Brands
Our Growth Brands have broad appeal and several have been 
developed into total tobacco offerings, providing consumers 
with both cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco smoking experiences. 
We manage our Growth Brands to drive quality sustainable 
growth and they account for 45 per cent of our total volumes 
and 42 per cent of our tobacco net revenue.
Specialist Brands
Our Specialist Brands are enjoyed by speciﬁ c consumer 
groups and represent a dynamic range of cigarette, ﬁ ne 
cut tobacco, paper, cigar and smokeless tobacco brands. 
These brands have a track record of generating strong returns 
and account for 12 per cent of our tobacco net revenue.
STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS
Stronger Brands
We’re optimising our portfolio to focus on 
our Growth and Specialist Brands, which 
generate more than half our tobacco net 
revenue. Portfolio Brands either add to 
our revenue generation or will be migrated 
into Growth Brands.
Specialist
Brands
Growth
Brands
Portfolio
Brands
Tobacco net revenue by brand
42%
12%
46%
Our 
Brands
® Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Growth Markets
Our Growth Markets include selected markets in the EU, 
Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA. The 
key territories are listed below. There are considerable 
opportunities for us to build our presence in Growth Markets, 
where our priority is to drive long-term share and proﬁ t growth.
Returns Markets
Returns Markets are split into North and South and include 
Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa; 
the key ones are listed below. In Returns Markets we prioritise 
sustainable proﬁ t performance, while actively managing our 
strong share positions.
Stronger Markets
We manage our markets on the strategic 
role they play, not by geographic location. 
Our markets prioritise Growth or Returns, 
driving more effective resource allocation 
and greater collaboration.
Cambodia
Greece
Italy
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Sweden
Taiwan
Turkey
USA
Vietnam
Algeria
Australia
France
Germany
Hungary
Morocco
Senegal
Spain
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Tobacco net revenue by market
43%
25%
32%
Returns 
Markets South
Returns 
Markets North
Growth
Markets
Our
Markets Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6
In 2014, my ﬁ rst year as Chairman, we created further value for our 
shareholders and continued to build the quality and sustainability of 
our business. Our strategic focus on maximising sales, cost and 
cash opportunities enabled us to achieve our targets and further 
transition the business to strengthen our future growth prospects. 
Transition initiatives included improving supply through a stock 
optimisation programme. This reduced trade inventories in 
some major markets, affecting our volume, revenue and proﬁ t 
performance. The underlying results we have disclosed in this 
report remove the impact of the stock programme and give a 
clearer picture of how well we performed.
Our results were delivered against a backdrop of challenging 
conditions in some territories and I’d like to thank our employees 
around the world for the huge contribution they made throughout 
the year.
Enhancing Returns for Shareholders
Total adjusted operating proﬁ t was stable at £3 billion and 
underlying tobacco net revenue increased by 2 per cent. Adjusted 
earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant currency 
basis to 203.4 pence and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis. 
Reported earnings per share was 148.5 pence.
The Board is committed to shareholder returns and delivering 
consistently strong dividend growth. This year the Board is 
recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 89.3 pence per share, which 
will be paid on 17 February 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 16 January 2015. This brings the total dividend for 2014 to 
128.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent. 
With effect from our 2015 ﬁ nancial year, we will pay dividends 
on a quarterly basis in order to give shareholders more regular 
cash returns.
Investing in the USA
In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion) to acquire a 
number of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets and 
the most proﬁ table tobacco market in the world, outside of China. 
These assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of 
Lorillard by Reynolds American and include a portfolio of USA 
cigarette brands and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA. 
The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American 
without historic product liabilities. An indemnity against such 
liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms 
of the transaction.
The acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and is subject to regulatory 
and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring 
of 2015. This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will 
transform our USA operations, diversify our proﬁ t stream and 
create signiﬁ cant value for our shareholders.
Capital Discipline
In July we also completed a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish 
Stock Market as part of our commitment to capital discipline, 
selling approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a consideration 
of £395 million net of fees (€518 million).
The proceeds helped reduce our adjusted net debt by £1 billion. 
This signiﬁ cant reduction was also driven by foreign exchange 
beneﬁ ts and a focus on more effectively managing working capital, 
which further reinforces our drive to embed stronger capital 
discipline in the business.
Operating Responsibly
The responsible way we run our business is integral to our 
long-term sustainability. Our people take great pride in doing 
things the right way, living our values and respecting our Code of 
Conduct and I’m pleased to see that our efforts continue to be 
recognised externally. 
We scored 94 per cent in the Business in the Community 
Corporate Responsibility Index and 74 per cent in the RobecoSAM 
assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
More information about our achievements can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility section of this report and on our website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and the Board
I was delighted to succeed Iain Napier as Chairman in February. 
Iain served on the Board for 13 years, seven as Chairman, and 
I would like to thank him for the signiﬁ cant contribution he made 
to the business.
I’m committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco continues to be 
governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency. 
Our Governance Report highlights the progress we’ve made 
against our key focus areas and sets out the Board’s priorities 
for 2015.
There were a number of other Board changes in the year. Oliver 
Tant joined us from KPMG in October, prior to being appointed 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer in November, and Karen Witts, Group 
Finance Director of Kingﬁ sher plc, was appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director in February. Both have a wealth of skills 
and expertise and are proving to be very strong additions to 
the business.
In addition two long-standing Non-Executive Directors left the 
Board after completing nine years’ service: Berge Setrakian stood 
down in February and Susan Murray stood down in September. 
I would like to thank them both for the considerable contributions 
they have made over the years.
Creating Sustainable Value
We have made good progress this year and are well placed to build 
on our performance in 2015.
The external environment will continue to pose challenges but we 
have consistently demonstrated our ability to grow our business 
in difﬁ cult conditions. We have the brands, the footprint and the 
people to succeed and I’m conﬁ dent that we will add to our track 
record of value creation in the coming year and beyond.
Mark Williamson
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Mark Williamson Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
We made good progress this year in further strengthening the 
business. Imperial has great potential for long-term growth and 
our strategic priorities are focused on maximising these growth 
opportunities to drive sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our business transition initiatives support our strategy and focus on 
optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, implementing 
better ways of working, managing our cost base and improving 
supply. The actions we’re taking are creating a stronger platform 
for growth, putting us in a stronger position to get the most out of 
our key assets: our brands, our markets and our people.
Our brand priorities are built around our Growth and Specialist 
Brands; this is where the real quality and sustainability of our 
portfolio lies. We achieved some good performances from these 
brands in the year, particularly our Growth Brands which have 
grown volume ahead of the market and gained share. 
We have a balanced market footprint which is divided into Growth 
and Returns Markets. We target long-term share and proﬁ t growth 
in Growth Markets and prioritise sustainable proﬁ t performance, 
while actively managing our strong share positions in Returns 
Markets. We saw strong results in a number of our Growth Markets 
and demonstrated ongoing resilience in our Returns Markets.
At the beginning of the year, we said our overall performance would 
be affected by our stock optimisation programme, which reduced 
the level of stock held by our distributors in some markets to 
improve our long-term supply effectiveness. 
Our underlying performance, which excludes the impact of the 
stock programme, has been encouraging and provides plenty for 
us to build on in 2015.
Creating Shareholder Value
We delivered further earnings per share and dividend growth in a 
difﬁ cult operating environment, characterised by lower industry 
volumes, high levels of illicit trade and instability in Eastern Europe 
and the Middle East. In addition our stock optimisation programme, 
which was completed in the year, affected our volume, revenue and 
proﬁ t performance. 
Against this backdrop we grew underlying tobacco net revenue 
by 2 per cent. Adjusted operating proﬁ t was ﬂ at at £3 billion and 
adjusted earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant 
currency basis and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis.
Return on invested capital was 14.2 per cent and we delivered 
another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
A Stronger Business
Our transition initiatives are strengthening the quality of 
our business and our ability to generate sustainable 
shareholder returns. 
Much of the focus is on optimising our portfolio, improving the 
way we manage our brands to drive quality sustainable growth. 
We’re also strengthening our operating model, reviewing the way 
the business operates on a day-to-day basis. This involves looking 
at systems, processes and structures to reduce complexity and 
enhance the way we work. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
Our Operating Environment
Global Cigarette Market
The global cigarette market is broadly stable. Around 6 trillion 
cigarettes are sold each year and there are around a billion 
adult smokers.
Our markets prioritise Growth or Returns. Growth Markets have 
large proﬁ t and/or volume pools and include selected countries 
in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA. 
We typically have shares below 15 per cent in these markets 
and focus on growing share and proﬁ t. We tend to have larger 
shares in Returns Markets, which include Australia and markets 
in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa. In many of these countries, 
particularly in the EU, industry volumes are declining and we 
focus on generating sustainable proﬁ t, while actively managing 
our share.
Illicit Trade
Around 660 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed every year. 
Cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting deprive governments 
of around £30 billion in legitimate taxes per annum. 
We work with governments and law enforcement agencies 
to combat illicit trade, investing in systems and processes to 
improve the security of our products and sharing intelligence 
to help authorities disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes. 
Regulating Tobacco
Regulation is driven by the World Health Organization (WHO, 
through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the 
FCTC), the European Commission (through the European Union 
Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD) and the USA’s Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA). 
We support reasonable regulation, such as appropriate 
ingredients disclosure and measures that will reduce illicit trade 
and stop children smoking. 
We don’t support disproportionate regulation such as display 
bans, plain packaging and excessive excise increases. 
These measures don’t have any material impact on tobacco 
consumption and only serve to disrupt markets and fuel 
illicit trade. 
We reinforced this with governments and regulators during the 
revision of the EUTPD, which includes legislation to standardise 
the appearance and taste of tobacco products. The revised 
Directive came into force on 20 May 2014 and EU Member 
States have two years to transpose it into national law. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8
During the year, we reorganised Group Marketing and appointed 
a single global marketing agency to drive a sharper focus on 
our portfolio priorities. We also started reshaping Group Sales to 
further support our performance ambitions in Growth and Returns 
Markets. Other business functions are also evolving in line with our 
transition agenda.
Portfolio Priorities
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands. 
Our priority is to drive the performance of Growth and Specialist 
Brands and build the contribution they make to our business.
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings that fulﬁ l 
a variety of roles. Some have the capacity to keep adding to our 
volume and revenue momentum; others are being delisted or 
migrated into Growth Brands. 
We’re making good progress with brand migrations. We 
successfully achieved several migrations during the year and 
accelerated plans for further migration initiatives, which will 
continue into 2015.
Good Performance from Growth Brands
Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, 
West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and 
Parker & Simpson.
In optimising our portfolio we’ve clustered these 10 brands on to 
ﬁ ve platforms, or ‘brand chassis’. Brands that share the same 
chassis also share the same growth initiatives, including innovations 
and pack designs. This reduces cost and complexity and drives 
greater consistency in the way we drive their performance.
Growth Brands continued to outperform the market, with 
underlying volumes up 7 per cent and underlying net revenue 
up 9 per cent. In contrast, market volumes in our geographic 
footprint declined by 4 per cent.
Brand migrations supported the performance of our Growth Brands 
and included the migration of Royale Club to Parker & Simpson in 
Iraq, Brooklyn to West in Spain and Maxim to JPS in Greece.
Performance highlights included JPS growth in Australia and the 
EU, Davidoff gains in Germany and Taiwan, and good progress 
from West in Turkey, Ukraine and Japan. Innovation initiatives and a 
new international marketing campaign supported the development 
of Gauloises Blondes. USA Gold maintained its momentum in key 
focus states and there were further launches of Parker & Simpson, 
extending the brand’s presence to 27 markets. Bastos performed 
well in Vietnam and we grew Fine volumes in Africa and News 
volumes in France. We also strengthened the UK share of Lambert 
& Butler with a new value variant.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 294 billion stick 
equivalents, compared with 317 billion last year. This reﬂ ects the 
impact of market declines and our stock optimisation programme, 
which reduced the level of stock held by distributors by more than 
9 billion stick equivalents.
Growth Brands accounted for 44.5 per cent of total Group 
tobacco volumes (131 billion), an increase of 380 basis points, 
and 41.6 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an increase of 
270 basis points. On an aggregate basis, we grew the market 
share of our Growth Brands to 5.7 per cent.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Sales Growth Drivers
We have selected four sales growth drivers that we want 
to excel at: portfolio management, innovation, customer 
engagement and pricing. 
We apply our expertise in each of these areas in all our 
markets to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist 
Brands. This is where the quality of our portfolio lies and we 
continually seek to grow and develop these brands.
Through portfolio management we focus on connecting 
our brands with consumers to enhance brand equity and 
build sales. 
With innovation we’re creating a drumbeat of initiatives: small 
and frequent innovations that keep our brands fresh, vibrant 
and relevant to consumers.
Strong retailer partnerships are integral to customer 
engagement. We work with retailers to support their business 
and maximise the availability and advocacy of our brands at 
the point of sale.
We evaluate pricing opportunities by brand, pack size and 
sales channel. We take excise structures into account when 
making pricing decisions and focus on maximising revenue 
growth while continuing to give consumers value for money.
Strong Returns from Specialist Brands
We have quality brands and products that span the tobacco 
spectrum and this is reﬂ ected in our Specialist Brands: Style, 
Gitanes (cigarettes), Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 (ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco), Cohiba, Montecristo, Romeo Y Julieta (premium cigars), 
Backwoods (cigars), Skruf (snus) and Rizla (papers).
These brands appeal to speciﬁ c consumer groups and generate 
strong returns.
Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla 
continued to underpin our world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco 
and papers, while some challenging market conditions and stock 
optimisation initiatives in Eastern Europe and the Middle East 
affected the performance of Style and Gitanes.
Our premium cigars, led by Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y 
Julieta, made gains in a number of Growth Markets and Skruf 
had another excellent year, further enhancing our share position 
in Scandinavia.
We increased Specialist Brands net revenues by 2 per cent on 
an underlying basis and these brands continued to account for 
12.3 per cent of our overall tobacco net revenue.
Encouraging Progress in Growth Markets
We have relatively small positions in Growth Markets and see 
considerable opportunities to build on them to generate long-term 
share and proﬁ t growth. Key territories include the USA and 
selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia and the 
Middle East. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Brand Migrations
Our brand migration strategy focuses on migrating Portfolio 
Brands into Growth Brands. 
We have a considerable number of Portfolio Brands, a legacy 
of our long acquisition track record. Many are single market 
offerings with limited brand equity. These brands can better 
support our quality growth aspirations by being migrated into 
stronger, higher-quality Growth Brands.
Migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually, 
usually over a three to six-month period. 
A key measure of success is the number of consumers who 
can be persuaded to complete the journey from one brand to 
another. In the ﬁ ve brand migrations we completed in the year, 
we’ve achieved a high success rate in transitioning consumers.
As well as supporting the global development of our Growth 
Brands, brand migrations are reducing the complexity of our 
business and supporting our cost optimisation programme.
More brand migrations will be progressed in 2015 as we 
continue to focus on simplifying our portfolio and building 
momentum behind our Growth Brands.
Our overall share position in Growth Markets was up slightly 
to 5.8 per cent and our ﬁ nancial performance was good, with 
underlying net revenue up 7 per cent.
We made good progress in a broad spread of these markets 
including Italy, Greece, Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Cambodia and 
Kazakhstan. Results in Russia were undermined by difﬁ cult trading 
conditions, as industry volumes continued to decline following 
excise increases and changes to regulation and the route to 
market. In the USA, we improved our share position in a number 
of key states.
In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion) to acquire a 
number of assets in the USA from Reynolds American. These 
assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by 
Reynolds American and include a portfolio of US cigarette brands 
and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA. The cigarette 
brands are being acquired without historic product liabilities. 
An indemnity against such liabilities will be provided by Reynolds 
American under the terms of the transaction.
The acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and is subject to regulatory 
and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring 
of 2015. This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will 
transform our USA operations, diversify our proﬁ t stream and 
create signiﬁ cant value for our shareholders.
Resilience in Returns Markets
In Returns Markets we focus on sustainable proﬁ t performance and 
actively managing our market share. Key territories include Australia 
and selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa.
We divide Returns Markets into North and South for reporting 
purposes. Trading remains challenging in a number of these 
markets, particularly in Returns South, where difﬁ cult economic 
conditions and illicit trade are resulting in industry volume declines.
We delivered a resilient performance against that backdrop, with 
good results in Germany, Portugal, Australia, Ukraine and Algeria 
mitigating the impact of weakness in Spain, France and Morocco.
Our share across Returns Markets was 26.7 per cent compared 
with 27.3 per cent last year, largely reﬂ ecting the weighting of 
higher, than average market size declines in the UK and Morocco 
where we have higher share than in other Returns Markets. We 
grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 4 per cent. 
Adjusted operating proﬁ t was up by 1 per cent, a robust result 
given the pressures in Returns South.
Growth Brands generated 43.2 per cent of tobacco net revenue in 
Returns Markets, up by 270 basis points.
Fontem Ventures
Our standalone non-tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures launched 
the Puritane e-cigarette brand in the UK in February. Puritane was 
initially sold exclusively through the national retailer Boots and 
Fontem is now widening the brand’s availability in the UK by 
partnering with additional retailers.
Fontem Ventures is also focused on expanding its presence across 
Europe with a second e-vapour product. Earlier expansion plans 
were revised after Imperial agreed to buy assets that were being 
sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American. 
These assets include the e-cigarette brand blu, which is sold in the 
UK and the USA.
Fontem Ventures continues to assess other potential product 
launches, in a variety of non-tobacco lifestyle consumer categories, 
while further developing and licensing its patented technologies.
Logista
Logista is one of the largest and most dynamic logistics businesses 
in Europe, making more than 35 million deliveries a year to 300,000 
outlets across Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
The business services tobacco and non-tobacco customers 
and has a long track record of delivering good results in tough 
conditions. 2014 was no exception, with distribution fees up 
2 per cent at £848 million. Adjusted operating proﬁ t was 
£166 million compared with £176 million last year, largely due 
to one-off items.
In tobacco logistics, cost control measures and efﬁ ciency 
improvement programmes continued to mitigate the impact of 
tobacco volume declines. In non-tobacco logistics, our transport 
business performed well in Spain and we continued to grow sales 
in our direct delivery pharma business. We also grew sales of 
convenience products in the tobacconist channel.
The Logista team continues to focus on managing costs and 
generating new growth opportunities to drive the proﬁ table 
development of the business.
In July a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish Stock Market 
resulted in the sale of approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a 
consideration of £395 million net of fees (€518 million). Retaining a 
majority shareholder position ensures we continue to beneﬁ t from 
the strong cash ﬂ ows that Logista generates. 
Cost Optimisation
Efﬁ ciently managing cost and cash supports our sustainable 
growth agenda. 
Our cost optimisation programme remains on track to save 
£300 million per annum from September 2018. More than 
£60 million was realised in 2014 through a range of initiatives 
that are reducing complexity in the business, including simplifying 
our portfolio, driving operational efﬁ ciencies and securing further 
global procurement beneﬁ ts. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10
Consultations in relation to restructuring projects announced in 
April to strengthen our competitive position have been concluded 
in the UK and remain ongoing in France. These projects include 
the proposed closure of cigarette factories in Nottingham and 
Nantes and the consolidation of French R&D facilities. It is intended 
to implement these projects progressively over the next two 
years and the priority throughout this period will be to support 
affected employees.
The cost programme is complemented by our stock optimisation 
programme, which has improved our supply efﬁ ciency and the 
effectiveness of our sales growth driver initiatives. 
Capital Discipline
We use our substantial cash ﬂ ows to create returns for 
shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business. 
Our commitment to capital discipline drives a focus on cash 
generation and effective management of our working capital.
We increased cash conversion to 91 per cent, up from 86 per cent 
last year, and signiﬁ cantly reduced our debt level by 11 per cent or 
£1 billion.
Dividend growth was again strong at 10 per cent and from our 
2015 ﬁ nancial year we will begin quarterly dividend payments to 
provide shareholders with more regular cash returns.
We further enhanced shareholder returns through our share 
buyback programme, spending £341 million to acquire 14.2 million 
shares. The USA acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and, in order 
to accelerate the pace of debt repayment, the share buyback 
programme has been suspended. 
Responsibility and People
The responsible way we manage our business is crucial to 
our long-term sustainability and we continue to focus on 
improving our performance in the four key areas of our 
corporate responsibility framework. 
Our people take pride in getting involved in our corporate 
responsibility initiatives and supporting each other to drive business 
performance. They thrive on collaboration and their vibrancy and 
passion create an energy around the business that continues to 
inspire me.
Outlook
We are a stronger business going into 2015. We’ve strengthened 
our brands and market footprint, increased cash conversion and 
considerably reduced our debt level. This has created a stronger 
platform for generating quality sustainable growth, as we continue 
to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands.
We expect to complete the USA transaction in the spring of 2015, 
which will signiﬁ cantly enhance our operational and ﬁ nancial 
delivery in this key Growth Market.
Our focus on cost optimisation and capital discipline supports our 
sales strategy by building resilience and freeing up funds to invest 
in growth.
The external environment remains challenging but the progress 
we’ve made has strengthened our ability to navigate headwinds 
and we can look forward to delivering another year of value creation 
for our shareholders, including our commitment to dividend growth 
of at least 10 per cent.
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Investing in the USA 
Transforming our Presence
In July we announced a deal that will transform our presence in 
the USA, the world’s most proﬁ table tobacco market, outside 
of China. 
The transaction will be debt ﬁ nanced and involves acquiring four 
USA cigarette brands and the e-cigarette brand blu, plus other 
assets, for $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion). These assets are being sold 
as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American. 
The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American 
without historic product liabilities. An indemnity against such 
liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms 
of the transaction.
The deal is subject to the Lorillard/Reynolds American acquisition 
receiving regulatory and shareholder approval. We also require 
the approval of our own shareholders at a general meeting and 
will be sending an explanatory circular to them in due course. 
We expect completion in the spring of 2015.
Powerful Brands
The cigarette brands we are acquiring are Winston, Maverick, 
Kool and Salem. When combined with our own brands, our 
cigarette share will increase from 3 per cent to 10 per cent, 
positioning us as a signiﬁ cant number three player in the market. 
The blu brand is a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA and was 
recently launched in the UK. Building on the strong platform blu 
has established and combining the expertise we have through 
our subsidiary Fontem Ventures will provide exciting opportunities 
to further internationalise the brand. 
Great People
The other assets we’re acquiring include Lorillard’s cigarette 
factory in North Carolina and its national sales force. This will 
enable us to sell our brands across all 50 states, a signiﬁ cant 
step up from our current approach which is to focus on 
19 key states.
Around 2,750 employees will join us from Lorillard and like our 
own people in our USA business, Commonwealth-Altadis, 
they’re highly skilled. The combined team will be led by Martin 
Orlowsky, a former Chairman, President and CEO of Lorillard.
Sustainable Returns
This is an investment in one of our key Growth Markets that 
supports our strategy and will create sustainable value for 
our shareholders. 
The acquisition is expected to generate a return on invested 
capital of more than 10 per cent, well in excess of our weighted 
average cost of capital, in the ﬁ rst full ﬁ nancial year following 
completion. It is also expected to be signiﬁ cantly earnings 
enhancing in the ﬁ rst full year following completion. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
How We Measure 
Our Performance
We use the key performance indicators 
below and the supporting metrics in the 
Operating Review to measure the progress 
we make in delivering our strategy. These 
measures reflect our priorities and are used 
to monitor and drive business performance.
Key Performance Indicators
Performance
Our Growth Brands outperformed 
market trends, with underlying volumes 
up 7 per cent compared with market 
declines of 4 per cent.
Deﬁ nition
Volumes are measured on a stick 
equivalent basis to reﬂ ect combined 
cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes.
Performance
Return on Invested Capital (RoIC) was 
impacted by foreign exchange rates. 
Excluding this effect, RoIC was broadly 
stable at 14.9 per cent.
Deﬁ nition
RoIC measures the effectiveness of 
capital allocation and is calculated by 
dividing adjusted net operating proﬁ t 
after tax by invested capital.
Performance
Our focus on cash generation and 
effective working capital management 
increased cash conversion to 91 per cent. 
Deﬁ nition
Cash conversion is calculated as cash 
ﬂ ow from operations before interest 
and tax payments less net capital 
expenditure relating to property, plant 
and equipment, software and intellectual 
property rights as a percentage of 
adjusted operating proﬁ t.
Performance
Tobacco net revenue was impacted by 
foreign exchange movements and our 
stock optimisation programme. Excluding 
these effects, tobacco net revenue was 
up by 2 per cent.
Deﬁ nition
Tobacco net revenue comprises tobacco 
revenue less duty and similar items, 
excluding peripheral products.
Performance
In 2014 we outperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 19 per cent. With dividends 
reinvested, £100 invested in Imperial Tobacco ﬁ ve years ago would now be worth 
£183 compared with £157 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Deﬁ nition
Total shareholder return is the total investment gain to shareholders resulting from 
the movement in the share price and assuming dividends are immediately reinvested 
in shares.
2014 2013 2012
Growth Brand Volumes
(bn)
132
129
131
2014 2013 2012
Return on Invested Capital
(%)
15.0
15.1
14.2
2014 2013 2012
Cash Conversion Rate
(%)
71
86
91
2014 2013 2012
Tobacco Net Revenue
(£bn)
7.0
7.0
6.6
2014 2013 2012
Adjusted Earnings 
Per Share (pence)
201.0
210.7
203.4
100
125
150
175
200
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE 100
Total Shareholder Return
Performance
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) 
was impacted by foreign exchange 
movements and our stock optimisation 
programme. Excluding these effects, 
adjusted EPS was up by 7 per cent.
Deﬁ nition
Adjusted earnings per share represents 
adjusted proﬁ t after tax attributable to the 
equity holders of the Company divided by 
the weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the period, excluding shares 
held to satisfy employee share plans and 
shares purchased by the Company and 
held as treasury shares. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
OPERATING REVIEW
Operating Review 
We target long-term share and profit  
growth in Growth Markets and prioritise 
sustainable profit performance, while actively 
managing our strong share positions in 
Returns Markets. This approach drives 
better resource allocation and greater 
collaboration between markets, providing  
a strong platform for generating higher-
quality growth. 
 
Footprint and Portfolio Overview 
Growth Markets include selected markets in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA. We typically have shares below  
15 per cent in these markets. Returns Markets are split into North and South and include Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Europe  
and Africa, where we tend to have large shares above 15 per cent. 
Our portfolio priorities are focused on driving the performance of our Growth Brands and Specialist Brands. These are the most important  
brands in our portfolio and together they account for 54 per cent of our tobacco net revenue. The remainder are Portfolio Brands, local and 
regional brands that fulfil a variety of roles. Some add to our revenue momentum, while others will create more value by being migrated into 
Growth Brands. 
Growth Brands 
Full Year Result Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%) 5.7 5.4 +30bps 
Net revenue (£m) 2,737 2,729 – +4% +9%
Percentage of Group volumes 44.5 40.7+380bps +460bps
Percentage of tobacco net revenue 41.6 38.9 +270bps +220bps +280bps
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Growth Brands generate a significant amount of our volume and revenue. They are high-quality assets and our aim is to increase the 
contribution they make over time in order to strengthen the sustainability of the business. 
Growth Brands outperformed the market in the year with underlying volumes growing 7 per cent, against a backdrop of market volume 
declines in our geographic footprint of 4 per cent. We grew the share of Growth Brands from 5.4 per cent to 5.7 per cent and increased 
underlying net revenue by 9 per cent.  
Growth Brands accounted for 44.5 per cent of our total volumes, up from 40.7 per cent last year, and 41.6 per cent of tobacco net revenues,  
up from 38.9 per cent last year. 
Specialist Brands 
 
Full Year Result 
 
Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Net revenue (£m) 811 866 -6% -2% +2%
Percentage of tobacco net revenue 12.3 12.4 -10bps -10bps –
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Specialist Brands appeal to specific consumer groups across the tobacco spectrum. We increased Specialist Brands net revenues by  
2 per cent on an underlying basis. These brands account for 12.3 per cent of our overall tobacco net revenue. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Growth Markets 
Full Year Result Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  5.8 5.7 +10bps 
Tobacco net revenue (£m) 2,113 2,254 -6% – +7%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 597 668 -11% -2%
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  38.3 36.8 +150bps +90bps +330bps
Growth Brand volume (bn SE) 53 53 – +11%
Market share excludes China; 1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
We’re building good momentum across our Growth Markets. Against a backdrop of industry volume declines of 4 per cent in our Growth 
Markets, we improved underlying net revenue by 7 per cent. Our Growth Brands performed well in a broad spread of Growth Markets and  
our share was up slightly to 5.8 per cent. 
Country Performance 
Italy We continued to perform well in a highly competitive environment, driving the performance of JPS to further 
increase our cigarette share. 
Greece We improved our cigarette share with Gauloises Blondes and Davidoff and focused on strengthening our fine 
cut tobacco position with gV. 
Sweden and Norway An excellent performance from Skruf was behind another set of strong results from our snus business, with 
share, volume, revenue and profit all increasing. 
Turkey Our market share dipped and profit declined due to significant price competition. We launched West queen  
size and Davidoff superslims to capitalise on the rapid growth of these formats. We also continued to make 
ground in the growing crushball segment with West Duo. 
Iraq The worsening political and security situation had a major impact on industry volumes. This, combined with  
our stock optimisation programme, significantly affected our performance.  
Saudi Arabia We grew our cigarette share in a growing market with contributions from Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes  
and West. 
Egypt We entered this 80 billion cigarette market in the year and have focused on establishing our presence with 
Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes. 
Japan We continued to build our position in Japan with a focus on West and customer engagement initiatives. 
Taiwan West was the driver behind our cigarette market share and volume gains, supported by Davidoff. We also 
added to our portfolio with the launch of Parker & Simpson. 
Vietnam Bastos performed well in a challenging environment of increasing regulation and significant growth in illicit trade.
Cambodia We grew volumes, share, revenue and profit following another strong performance from Fine. 
Russia Our stock optimisation programme has strengthened our position in a market that poses challenging conditions 
as a result of adverse excise and regulatory changes. We have targeted key growth segments with a number 
of portfolio initiatives, including queen size formats, big boxes and charcoal filters, which has stabilised our  
cigarette share. 
Kazakhstan We achieved excellent cigarette volume and market share growth with West and Parker & Simpson. 
USA We increased profit and grew our cigarette share in key states with USA Gold, which is now available in  
Glide Tec packs.  
Returns Markets 
Full Year Result Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  26.7 27.3 -60bps 
Net revenue per ’000 SE (£) 23.1 23.4 -1% +3% +4%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 2,253 2,335 -4% +1%
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  43.2 40.0 +320bps +280bps +270bps
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Industry volumes declined by 3 per cent in Returns Markets. The impact of a weak operating environment in Returns South was offset by 
results in Returns North, such that adjusted operating profit across our Returns Markets increased by 1 per cent. Our aggregate market share 
was down, largely reflecting the weighting of higher than average market size declines in the UK and Morocco where we have higher share 
than in other Returns Markets. 
We grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 4 per cent. We also increased the revenue contribution from our Growth Brands; 
these brands generated 43.2 per cent of tobacco net revenue in Returns Markets, 320 basis points higher than last year. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14
OPERATING REVIEW continued
Returns Markets North 
Full Year Result Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  24.8 25.5 -70bps 
Net revenue per ’000 SE (£) 27.0 27.0 – +5% +6%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 1,511 1,543 -2% +2%
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  46.7 43.9 +280bps +210bps +220bps
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
We achieved robust results in Returns Markets North, increasing net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 6 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit by 2 per cent. Growth Brands delivered 46.7 per cent of tobacco net revenue, up from 43.9 per cent. Our market share was 
24.8 per cent, impacted by industry volume declines in the UK. 
Country Performance 
UK We maintained our leadership position against a backdrop of weak industry volumes. We grew volumes of JPS, 
strengthened the Lambert & Butler brand franchise with a new value variant and made fine cut tobacco gains 
with Player’s Gold Leaf. 
Germany We delivered a strong financial performance, increasing revenue and profit. Our fine cut tobacco share was 
down and growth from JPS and Davidoff kept our cigarette share broadly stable. 
Benelux Competitor pressures in the Netherlands affected our overall cigarette and fine cut tobacco shares but good 
performances elsewhere delivered further profit growth. 
Australia We grew volumes, revenue and profit and increased both our cigarette and fine cut tobacco shares with JPS. 
New Zealand We enhanced our cigarette and fine cut tobacco shares with growth from JPS and West. 
Azerbaijan Our cigarette share was down slightly but we grew revenue and profit and increased volumes of  
Parker & Simpson. 
Ukraine We performed well in a turbulent environment, significantly improving revenue and profit, although our share 
dipped slightly. Parker & Simpson gained ground following its launch in the year and West volumes were up. 
Returns Markets South 
Full Year Result Change 
2014 2013 Actual 
Constant 
Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  29.4 29.9 -50bps 
Net revenue per ’000 SE (£) 18.6 19.3 -4% – +1%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 742 792 -6% -2%
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  37.3 33.7 +360bps +350bps +310bps
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Our focus on improving the quality of our growth was reflected in the further development of our Growth Brands, which accounted for  
37.3 per cent of tobacco net revenue in Returns South, up from 33.7 per cent last year. However, the weak operating environment in  
France, Spain and Morocco undermined our overall financial performance. 
Country Performance 
Spain Industry volume declines slowed but the market remained challenging. We grew our blonde cigarette share  
and strengthened our portfolio by migrating local brand Brooklyn into West. 
France Our cigarette share declined in an environment of weak industry volumes. We made gains in the growing make 
your own segment with Gauloises Blondes and News and added to our cigarette portfolio with the launch of 
Gauloises Generation. 
Portugal We achieved excellent results with JPS, increasing volumes and both our cigarette and fine cut tobacco share. 
Czech Republic We increased volumes and profit and grew our cigarette share. Our fine cut tobacco share was down but we 
improved our position with the launch of Parker & Simpson. 
Austria We stabilised our cigarette share and launched a Gauloises variant with biodegradable filter and an additive-free 
tobacco blend, to capitalise on growth in the additive-free segment. 
Algeria Our good performance was driven by Gauloises Blondes and West, with both brands gaining volume  
and share. 
Ivory Coast We have a strong market leading position and made further gains with Fine. 
Senegal We made further good progress, increasing our cigarette volume and market share. 
Morocco There were further steep industry volume declines and our cigarette share was down. We focused on 
strengthening our portfolio with launches of MQS cigarettes, a modern variant of our local brand Marquise,  
and the market’s first fine cut tobacco products through Gauloises and Marquise. These initiatives improved  
our second half performance.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Oliver Tant Chief Financial Officer 
 
Effective cost and cash management supports our sales growth 
strategy. We use our substantial cash flows to create returns for 
shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest to support growth. By 
focusing on cash generation and working capital we are embedding  
a stronger capital discipline in the business. 
When managing the performance of our business we focus on non-
GAAP measures, which we refer to as adjusted measures. We 
believe they provide a useful comparison of performance from one 
period to the next. These adjusted measures are supplementary to, 
and should not be regarded as a substitute for, GAAP measures,  
which we refer to as reported measures. The basis of our adjusted 
measures is explained in our accounting policies accompanying  
our financial statements, and reconciliations between reported  
and adjusted measures are included in the appropriate notes to  
our financial statements. Percentage growth figures for adjusted 
results are given on a constant currency basis, where the effects  
of exchange rate movements on the translation of the results of  
our overseas operations are removed. 
A Year of Significant Progress 
We made significant progress in the period, implementing a stock 
optimisation programme, managing our cost base and controlling our 
cash flows, aligned with our strategy. The stock programme, which  
is now completed, reduced trade inventories in some of our major 
markets, affecting our volumes by around 9 billion stick equivalents. 
Results were also affected by market size declines. Strong price/mix 
and cost control initiatives mitigated some of these impacts. 
Underlying revenue and volume results remove the impact of  
the stock programme and give a clearer picture of how well we 
performed. Total adjusted operating profit was stable at £3 billion. 
Underlying tobacco net revenue was up by 2 per cent. The 
proportion of net revenue from our Growth Brands increased, 
improving the quality of our revenue and strengthening our 
sustainability.  
Results in Growth Markets benefited from non-recurring credits of 
around £40 million in respect of MSA costs following settlement  
of a number of historic issues in the USA. Returns Markets South 
results benefited from a one-off credit of £52 million due to the 
amendment of entitlements to free cigarettes for pensioners in  
Spain. These benefits helped offset the impact of the stock 
optimisation programme. 
Group Results – Constant Currency Analysis 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Year ended 
30 September 
2013
Foreign 
Exchange
Constant 
currency 
growth
Year ended  
30 September 
2014 Change
Constant 
currency 
change
1
Tobacco net revenue 7,007 (355) (76) 6,576 -6% -1%
Growth Markets net revenue 2,254 (152) 11 2,113 -6% –
Returns Markets North net revenue 2,929 (142) 14 2,801 -4% –
Returns Markets South net revenue 1,824 (61) (101) 1,662 -9% -6%
Tobacco adjusted operating profit 3,003 (153) – 2,850 -5% –
Growth Markets adjusted operating profit 668 (57) (14) 597 -11% -2%
Returns Markets North adjusted operating profit 1,543 (63) 31 1,511 -2% +2%
Returns Markets South adjusted operating profit 792 (33) (17) 742 -6% -2%
Logistics distribution fees 850 (22) 20 848 – +2%
Logistics adjusted operating profit 176 (4) (6) 166 -6% -3%
Adjusted operating profit 3,180 (157) 3 3,026 -5% –
Adjusted net finance costs (532) 13 3 (516) +3% +1%
Adjusted EPS 210.7p (11.7)p 4.4p 203.4p -3% +2%
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Group Earnings Performance 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Adjusted 
 
Reported 
2014 2013 2014 2013
Operating profit   
Tobacco 2,850 3,003  1,970 1,888
Logistics 166 176  84 69
Eliminations 10 1  10 1
Group operating profit 3,026 3,180  2,064 1,958
Net finance costs (516) (532)  (544) (739)
Profit before taxation 2,510 2,648  1,520 1,219
Taxation (530) (572)  (69) (290)
Profit for the year 1,980 2,076  1,451 929
Earnings per ordinary share (pence) 203.4 210.7  148.5 92.9 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
Reconciliation of Adjusted Performance Measures 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Operating profit Net finance costs 
 
Earnings per share (pence) 
2014 2013 2014 2013  2014 2013 
Reported 2,064 1,958 (544) (739)
R
  148.5 96.2
R
Acquisition costs 13 – – –   1.4 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 644 372 – –   35.8 30.8
Impairment of acquired intangibles – 580 – –   – 48.6
Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments – – (12) 156   (2.5) 15.1
Post-employment benefits net financing costs  – – 40 51
R 
  2.8 3.7
R
Restructuring costs 305 270 – –   23.1 19.6
Tax losses – – – –   (5.3) –
Items above attributable to non-controlling interests – – – –   (0.4) –
Adjusted 3,026 3,180 (516) (532)   203.4 210.7
R  Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Logista delivered an encouraging performance in a challenging 
environment. Logistics distribution fees were up 2 per cent at  
£848 million and adjusted operating profit was £166 million  
compared with £176 million last year, largely due to one-off items. 
Adjusted net finance costs were a little lower at £516 million (2013: 
£532 million), as average debt reduced and our cost of debt  
improved slightly. Reported net finance costs were £544 million  
(2013: £739 million), reflecting net fair value and exchange gains on 
financial instruments of £12 million (2013: losses of £156 million)  
and post-employment benefits net financing costs of £40 million  
(2013: £51 million). 
After tax at an effective adjusted rate of 21.1 per cent (2013:  
21.6 per cent), adjusted earnings per share grew by 2 per cent to 
203.4 pence. The reported effective tax rate for 2014 was 4.6 per 
cent, unusually low primarily due to the remeasurement of certain 
deferred tax balances, in particular deferred tax on intangible assets 
and other items which are excluded from our adjusted measures. 
Reported earnings per share were 148.5 pence (2013: 92.9 pence) 
reflecting non-cash amortisation of £644 million (2013: £372 million) 
which has increased following revisions to the estimated period of 
time over which we will amortise certain intangible assets, and 
restructuring costs of £305 million (2013: £270 million), mainly in 
respect of our continuing cost optimisation programme.  
Our cost optimisation programme will deliver savings of £300 million 
per annum from September 2018. More than £60 million was 
realised in 2014 through a range of initiatives focused on reducing 
complexity in the business, driving operational efficiencies and 
securing further global procurement benefits. 
Cash Flows and Financing 
We increased cash conversion to 91 per cent, up from 86 per cent  
last year. 
In July a partial IPO of Logista resulted in the sale of approximately  
30 per cent of Logista for a consideration of £395 million net of  
fees (€518 million). Retaining a majority shareholder position  
ensures we continue to benefit from the strong cash flows that  
Logista generates.  
The proceeds helped reduce our reported net debt by £1 billion.  
This significant reduction was also driven by foreign exchange rates 
and a focus on more effectively managing working capital, which 
further reinforces our drive to embed stronger capital discipline in the 
business. Eliminating accrued interest and the fair value of derivatives 
providing commercial cash flow hedges, our adjusted net debt was 
£8.1 billion (2013: £9.1 billion), also improved by almost £1 billion 
over the year. 
The denomination of our closing adjusted net debt was split 
approximately 75 per cent euro, 14 per cent sterling and 11 per cent 
US dollar. As at 30 September 2014 we had committed financing 
facilities in place of around £17 billion (including acquisition facilities  
of around £4.4 billion available in relation to the proposed US asset  
 
purchase). Some 45 per cent was bank facilities, 2 per cent  
was commercial paper and 53 per cent was raised through  
capital markets.  
Our all-in cost of debt was 4.9 per cent (2013: 5.1 per cent) and  
our interest cover was 5.9 times (2013: 6.0 times). We remain fully 
compliant with all our banking covenants and remain committed to 
retaining our investment grade ratings.  
Share Buyback and Dividends 
During the year, we spent £341 million acquiring 14.2 million shares 
under our buyback programme. We suspended the programme in 
July following the announcement of our intention to purchase certain 
assets in the USA. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 89.3 pence per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 128.1 pence per share,  
up 10 per cent and in line with our published dividend policy. If 
approved, the proposed final dividend will be paid on 17 February 
2015, with an ex-dividend date of 15 January 2015.  
With effect from our 2015 financial year, we will pay a quarterly  
dividend in order to give shareholders a more regular cash return.  
The first two quarterly dividends will be announced with our half year 
results in May 2015 and paid in June and September. The third and 
fourth quarter dividends will be announced with the full year results  
in November 2015 and paid in December and, subject to AGM 
approval, in March 2016.  
Liquidity and Going Concern 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that we always have sufficient capital 
markets funding and committed bank facilities in place to meet 
foreseeable peak borrowing requirements. 
In reviewing the Group’s committed funding and liquidity positions,  
the Board considered various sensitivity analyses when assessing  
the forecast funding and headroom requirements of the Group in  
the context of the maturity profile of the Group’s facilities. The Group 
plans its financing in a structured and proactive manner and remains 
confident that sources of financing will be available when required. 
In relation to the proposed acquisition of certain brands and assets 
as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American, we 
have entered into committed bank facilities of £7.7 billion, comprising 
term loan and revolving credit facilities. 
Based on its review, the Board is of the opinion that the Group as a 
whole and Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have adequate resources  
to meet their operational needs for a period of 12 months from the 
date of this report and conclude that it is appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on a going concern basis. 
 
Oliver Tant 
Chief Financial Officer  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Operating responsibly is integral to the  
way we do business. It supports our  
sales growth strategy and is crucial to  
our long-term success. 
We measure our performance against the progress we make in four 
key areas: being responsible with products, having a rewarding 
workplace, respecting natural resources and reinvesting in society. 
These form the basis of our responsibility framework; they are the 
priorities for our business, our people and our stakeholders.  
Our values embody the behaviours we expect from everyone who 
works for us and our Code of Conduct includes policies, internal 
controls and risk management processes that underpin our sales 
growth strategy.  
Our values and Code of Conduct are embedded in the business and 
support our responsibility framework. 
Over the next few pages you can find out more about the 
achievements we’ve made in each area. More detailed information 
on our 2014 performance and objectives for 2015 can be  
found in the Responsibility section of our corporate website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr 
We’re proud of the focus our people give to our responsibility  
agenda and continue to be encouraged by the positive feedback  
we receive externally.  
We scored 94 per cent in the Business in the Community Corporate 
Responsibility Index and 74 per cent in the RobecoSAM assessment 
for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
 
Responsible with Products 
Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our products 
every day. We recognise there are societal concerns about the health 
risks of smoking and ensure that our products are manufactured, 
marketed and sold responsibly. 
High Product Standards 
Consumers and other stakeholders rightly expect us to adhere to 
high product standards. We rigorously test and analyse our products 
to ensure we continue to build our knowledge and understanding. 
This enables us to fulfil our duty of care to consumers and meet legal 
requirements for scientific disclosures and submissions. 
During the year, we’ve been particularly focused on the testing and 
scientific analysis of e-vapour products. Our non-tobacco business 
Fontem Ventures launched its first e-vapour product in 2014 and 
continues to evaluate plans for other product launches in 2015. 
Marketing Products Responsibly 
Legislation that governs the way tobacco should be advertised and 
marketed to the public is in place in most markets. We also have our 
own stringent International Marketing Standards (IMS) which are 
published in full on our corporate website. 
All Imperial Tobacco Group companies and employees, and the 
agencies we work with around the world, must adhere to our IMS 
and local legislation at all times. During the year, we appointed a 
single global marketing agency which has further enhanced the 
consistency of our marketing. 
Fighting Illicit Trade 
The illegal market in tobacco undermines society’s efforts to ensure 
that tobacco products are marketed responsibly. As well as depriving 
governments of valuable tax revenues, illicit trade has other adverse 
impacts: children can more easily obtain tobacco, adult consumers 
are exposed to products that have no quality controls, and retailers 
and tobacco companies lose legitimate sales. 
We advocate a partnership approach to fighting illicit trade and  
seek to work with governments and customs and law enforcement 
agencies to combat the problem of tobacco smuggling and 
counterfeiting. 
We have 23 Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with authorities 
around the world and continue to invest in our long-term anti-illicit 
trade partnership agreement with the European Commission  
and Member States. During the year, we renewed our MoU with 
authorities in Belgium and signed a new MoU agreement with Mali.  
We highlight the dangers of illicit trade through our regulatory 
engagement. Extreme regulation that requires standardising tobacco 
products makes them easier to counterfeit and increases illicit trade. 
Cigarettes have been sold in generic plain packaging in Australia 
since December 2012. Illicit trade has increased since then and  
there has been no material impact on consumption or the level of 
youth smoking. 
Working with Retailers 
We continue to build strong relationships with retail partners around 
the world to support our sales strategy and responsibility framework. 
We actively encourage retailers to sell responsibly. Tobacco products 
are for adults and should never be sold to children. We reinforce this 
through our support for initiatives aimed at preventing tobacco sales 
to children, including schemes that highlight the minimum age at the 
point of sale. 
Rewarding Workplace 
We strive to provide a safe and pleasant working environment that 
inspires employees to do their best. We want to see skills and talent 
flourish and are proud of the diversity and collaborative spirit of  
our workforce. 
A Diverse Workforce 
We employ 34,000 people in more than 60 countries around the 
world. Our people come from many different backgrounds and 
cultures, enriching the vibrancy of our business. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
To create a 
great 
workplace
To make 
positive societal 
contributions
To reduce our 
environmental 
impact
To support 
legitimate 
markets and 
consumers
Goals
Focus Areas
Our Values
Code of Conduct
         Responsible with products
          Rewarding workplace
       Reinvesting in society
      Respecting natural resources Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued
Around 39 per cent of our workforce is female, with some 13,190 
women employed. At a senior leadership level, 22 per cent of the 
Operating Executive and 30 per cent of the Board are female, as  
of 30 September 2014. 
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is 
highlighted in our Code of Conduct, now available in 24 languages, 
and underpinned by our values. This is reinforced through offering 
equal opportunities and giving fair consideration to applications for 
employment, career development and promotion, without having 
regard to an employee’s gender, race, religion, age or disability.  
Our values capture the essence of what it’s like to be part of Imperial 
Tobacco; the combination of the ‘We’ values and the ‘I’ values  
reflect the individual and collective behaviours we expect from  
our people. 
Our efforts to provide the best possible working environment and 
opportunities for our people have been recognised with a number  
of Best Employer awards in markets such as Spain, Italy, Russia, 
Poland and Madagascar. 
Engaging and Developing our People 
Our global engagement survey gives employees the opportunity to 
have their say and provides us with valuable feedback that is used  
to develop local and global action plans. 
The 2013 survey generated an excellent 89 per cent response  
rate and showed a slight increase in overall engagement levels.  
This is encouraging, particularly against a background of change  
in the business. 
The sense of pride that we instil in being part of Imperial Tobacco 
and our commitment to corporate responsibility were highlighted  
as particular strengths of the business. Areas where employees  
said we can do even better included further improving the way we 
manage and develop our people, and this has been a key focus in  
the year. 
Partnering with Ashridge Business School, we’ve launched world-
class development programmes that are tailored for employees at 
different levels of the business. We’ve also invested more in learning 
initiatives and enhanced the tools available to support annual 
performance and development reviews. 
Employee Value Proposition 
During the year, we worked with 250 employees across multiple 
markets to develop and launch our Employee Value Proposition 
(EVP) ‘Bring it on’. 
‘Bring it on’ encapsulates who we are and what we stand for, an 
EVP that connects employees around the world and is a powerful 
tool for attracting dynamic new talent into the business. 
Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing 
The safety of our people is of paramount importance and we are 
pleased to report a further 15 per cent decrease in our lost time 
accident frequency rate in the year. We were saddened that two 
contractors suffered fatal falls in Kiev and Senegal and have assisted 
authorities with their investigations. We have also undertaken our 
own local and Group investigations and implemented additional 
safety measures. 
We made further progress in installing world-class management 
systems aligned to the international occupational health and safety 
management standard OHSAS 18001 across our manufacturing 
operations. Five additional sites in Chad, the Philippines, Ivory Coast 
and Morocco were certified as having reached this standard during 
the year. 
We were delighted with the response from our employees to the 
Global Corporate Challenge, a 16-week initiative that encourages 
people to form teams and complete activities that are equivalent to 
10,000 steps a day. Around 1,200 companies worldwide signed up 
to the challenge. More than 7,400 of our employees took part and 
their remarkable efforts resulted in Imperial Tobacco finishing fourth  
in the overall global rankings. 
Reinvesting in Society  
We are proud to be part of many different communities around the 
world and have developed strong partnerships with a wide range of 
stakeholders in the communities we serve. 
Human Rights  
We have a role to play in addressing human rights issues. We have 
influence with our suppliers and we use this to improve conditions in 
our supply chain. 
This respect for human rights is reflected in our Code of Conduct  
and Supplier Standards which we use to exert influence in our 
business and our supply chain. We have a focus on anti-
discrimination and harassment, a healthy and safe working 
environment, responsible procurement, supplier partnerships  
and environmental responsibilities. 
We’re a business committed to doing things the right way and  
that means acting with respect, fairness and integrity at all times.  
The governance of countries may vary but our respect for human 
rights extends throughout our operations. It is implicit in our 
employment practices and within the high standards we expect  
from suppliers and other business partners. 
Supplier Standards 
Working with our supply chain stakeholders to address important 
issues such as leaf sustainability and child labour is a priority. 
Our leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers must adhere to our 
Code of Conduct as well as meet the high standards we set for 
employment practices, health and safety, quality and environment.  
All our leaf suppliers are required to participate in our Social 
Responsibility in Tobacco Production (SRiTP) programme, which 
encourages continual performance improvement in key areas 
including employment, health and safety, environmental 
management and good agricultural practices.  
We work with external consultants to evaluate performance, provide 
training and share good practice and we were pleased to see our 
overall leaf supplier performance against the SRiTP criteria increase 
from 71 per cent to 75 per cent in the year. 
Farmer Livelihoods and Child Labour  
Child labour is a risk in agricultural supply chains and we continue to 
support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco (ECLT) Foundation 
in tackling this problem. Working with the Foundation, we help 
communities understand child labour issues and seek better access 
to education and health services for children. 
Our own projects aim to improve the livelihoods of farmers in Malawi, 
Tanzania, Zambia, Madagascar and Laos. This helps secure future 
tobacco supplies and is essential for providing farmers with a better 
income and higher standards of living, reducing poverty and the 
reliance on child labour. 
Supporting Communities 
We fund a number of projects that are connected to the communities 
in which we operate. We particularly focus on supporting the most 
disadvantaged communities around our factories, offices and 
tobacco sourcing activities.  
Our Altadis Foundation supports initiatives to improve livelihoods in 
areas where we have operational sites. The Foundation supported  
a number of projects in the year including providing safe drinking 
water and improving sanitation for communities near one of our cigar 
factories in the La Romana province of the Dominican Republic.  
Our Leaf Partnership Committee supports tobacco farming 
communities and during the year we funded initiatives aimed at 
enhancing the livelihoods of farmers including improving tobacco 
curing and labour efficiency in Malawi, Tanzania, Zambia and Laos. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
More and more employees are volunteering to get involved in 
projects linked to our responsibility framework. In 2014 the  
projects they supported included: refurbishing accommodation for 
disadvantaged young people in Macedonia, cleaning waterways  
in the Philippines, tree planting in Poland and building ovens to 
support a community cooking business in a village in Burkina Faso. 
Respecting Natural Resources 
We respect natural resources and are committed to further  
reducing our environmental impact, minimising waste and improving 
energy efficiency. 
We measure progress by comparing our performance with our 2009 
base year, using independently verified 2013 data. 
Climate Change and Energy 
We are well on track to reduce our carbon footprint and energy 
usage by 20 per cent by 2020, having already reduced our energy 
consumption by 10 per cent.  
A number of energy efficiency initiatives have contributed to our 
success, including our use of guaranteed energy-saving contracts. 
Four more of our largest manufacturing sites have signed up to  
these contracts. 
We’re original members of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), 
which works with organisations to measure and reduce their 
emissions and climate change impacts. We continue to make 
improvements in this area, achieving an 84 per cent score from  
the CDP in 2014. 
Resource Efficiency 
Getting the most out of the materials and natural resources we use is 
good for our business and good for the environment. Our mantra is: 
reduce, re-use and recycle. 
In manufacturing we are increasing the use of environmental 
management systems that are independently certified to the 
environmental management standard ISO 14001, with 89 per cent  
of our factories now certified to this standard.  
Our unverified performance indicators for waste and waste to landfill 
show a very small increase this year. This reflects portfolio, marketing 
and operational footprint changes we made as part of our business 
transition agenda. 
We have steadily reduced waste and waste to landfill in recent years 
and remain focused on further building on this positive trend. We also 
continue working with suppliers to help them minimise waste and 
reduce their environmental impact. 
Reforestation Programmes 
We’re actively involved in protecting forests. Tobacco growing may 
use wood either as a fuel for curing tobacco or as construction 
material for barns. Last year we enhanced our approach to forestry 
preservation by launching a major tree-growing programme with our 
suppliers that aims to achieve wood sustainability in Africa by 2020.  
Tree planting has continued and we are also introducing measures to 
improve wood fuel efficiency and reduce wood consumption. 
Water Management 
We remain committed to building on our strong track record of 
reducing water consumption. Unverified data indicates a slight 
increase in water usage for this year. This minimal increase relates  
to a 1.7 per cent increase in water consumption across our  
global operations and, although disappointing, does not cause  
us undue concern.  
In our factories we apply environmental management systems  
under the international standard ISO 14001 to reduce water use  
and manage waste water. Each location has its own local water 
management targets. 
We’re pleased with improvements we’re seeing in farming 
communities in Central America, where we’re working with our 
suppliers to train farmers on good agricultural practices, with a 
particular focus on maximising opportunities for water conservation 
and protection. 
Environmental Reporting  
We report on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our tobacco 
operations which fall within our consolidated financial statements 
using the operational control reporting method. We report scope 1 
(direct) and scope 2 (indirect) emissions for which we are responsible 
using a methodology based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition).  
Any deviations from this standard are described below. We have 
considered the seven main greenhouse gases and report in CO2 
equivalent. Our relative emissions are expressed against net tobacco 
revenue, which is consistent with the standardised CDP reporting 
format and facilitates meaningful comparison with other businesses 
that report both their emissions and financial fundamentals. 
Our scope 1 emissions include: emissions from stationary fuel 
combustion at our sites; emissions from mobile fuel combustion in 
our fleet of company vehicles; leakage of refrigerant gases; and 
process emissions from the Dry Ice Expanded Tobacco process at 
our expansion plants. Our scope 2 emissions include the indirect 
emissions resulting from the use of purchased electricity, heat and 
steam at our sites. 
We include all main sources of emissions including all manufacturing 
sites over which we have operational control, our expansion plants in 
Cadiz and Reidsville, and our main offices (Bristol, Hamburg, Paris, 
Madrid and Casablanca). Operations not included, as deemed 
immaterial or beyond our current reporting capabilities, relate to 
greenhouse gases other than the seven Kyoto gases, the JR 800 
Cigar retail outlets in the USA, small sales offices (being those offices 
not listed above which contribute less than 0.05 per cent of our  
total scope 1 and 2 emissions), our Habanos joint venture and our 
Cambodian distribution operation.  
Scope 1 emissions arising from mobile fuel combustion in our fleet  
of company vehicles for the latest financial year are unverified 
estimates based on data from the previous financial year. All other 
emissions for the latest financial year are unverified estimated data 
based on the first six months of the latest financial year and the final 
six months of the previous financial year. Verified data is reported  
12 months in arrears to allow for internal checking, validation and 
external assurance. 
We provide additional information on Logista, which is managed 
remotely due to commercial sensitivities and does not report wholly 
into Group data. This year, for the first time, Logista has provided 
verified data for their absolute emissions within Scopes 1, 2 and 3  
for FY13. 
FY13 
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
CO2 equivalent emissions 
(Tonnes) 37,709 7,732156,586
Logista’s scope 1 emissions relate to the stationary and mobile fuel 
combustion and emissions from landfill waste. Refrigerant gases  
for Logista are not included due to current reporting capabilities. 
Scope 2 emissions include the indirect emissions resulting from  
the use of purchased electricity, heat and steam at Logista’s sites. 
Scope 3 emissions are primarily associated with third-party hauliers. 
Logista’s unverified relative CO2 equivalent emissions within Scopes 
1 and 2 amount to 53.46 tonnes per million pounds of FY13 
distribution fees (our non-GAAP revenue measure for Logista).  
More detail is available at www.logista.com 
We continue to work on improving our Group reporting boundaries 
and the timeliness of data. More information on our environmental 
reporting approach can be found in the Responsibility section of  
our website.   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued
Responsibility Performance Indicators 
 
1  Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. The monetary value ‘£ million’ is for tobacco net revenue (or logistics 
distribution fees, where appropriate). FY13 data has been assured by PwC; see website for more information. 
* Unverified FY14 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of FY13 and the first six months of FY14. Verified data for FY14 will be published next year. 
2 Verified accident and absence data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. Sickness absence includes non-work related and work 
related absence. FY13 data has been assured by PwC; see website for more information.  
** Provisional unverified FY14 data is provided. Verified data for FY14 will be published next year. 
3 All our tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2013, which provides specific guidance for improvement against a variety of criteria.  
 See our website for more information. Data for 2013 has been verified. We report 12 months in arrears to allow for the reporting and analysis of data. 
 
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Absolute CO
2
 Equivalent Emissions (Tonnes)
1
42,958
162,794
149,373
42,958
160,973
149,714
42,958
163,819
144,153
42,958
169,355
131,780
41,106
163,760
119,085
41,106
162,351
107,516
CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions Scope 2
CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions Scope 1 
excl ﬂeet fuel
CO
2
 emissions Scope 1 
ﬂeet fuel sales
Absolute Energy Consumption (GWh)
1
172
990
172
996
172
984
172
939
165
876
165
839
Energy consumption 
manufacturing 
and ofﬁces
Energy consumption
ﬂeet fuel sales
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
CO
2
 Equivalent Emissions (Tonnes/£ million)
1
53.9
52.1
50.8
49.1
46.2 45.4
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Energy Consumption (kWh/£ million)
1
176,300
171,889
167,169
158,481
148,527
146,304
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Waste (Tonnes/£ million)
1
8.25
8.00
7.47
7.85
7.24
7.43
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Waste to Landﬁll (Tonnes/£ million)
1
2.08
1.90
1.70
1.61
1.55
1.65
2014* 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Water Consumption (m
3
/£ million)
1
321
300
290
274
235
244
2014** 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (per 200,000 hours)
2
1.57
1.30
1.08
0.86
0.73
0.51
2014** 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Sickness Absence Rate (% of days worked)
2
3.73
2.97
2.76
2.55
2.72
2.51
2013
(veriﬁed)
2012 2011 2010 2009
Baseline
Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production Progress: 
Total Weighted Mean (%)
3
60
63
68
71
75
Key data reported in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 September 2014 has been independently assured under the limited 
assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC. They have also been engaged to look at our alignment with AA1000AS (2008) 
principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness. Some of the selected data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within 
the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report and all of the selected data is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of  
the website www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr where their limited assurance statement can be found. PwC has provided Imperial Tobacco with 
CR assurance services from FY10. Earlier data was assured by another provider.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
RISK MANAGEMENT
In this section we outline the risks we face 
across our business and our approach to 
managing them. 
Our Approach 
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and capitalise on 
growth opportunities requires effective management of the risks  
we face.  
Our risk management system is designed to identify risks that could 
prevent the achievement of strategic objectives as early as possible, 
and to ensure that appropriate and agreed mitigation is in place. The 
approach seeks to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Where 
risks do crystallise, we respond immediately to reduce the impact of 
that risk and to ensure that the causes and consequences have been 
evaluated and any wider implications assessed.  
Our risk management approach provides a framework which allows 
for the identification and management of both Group risks and  
those risks specific to a location. In a business with a global market 
footprint as diverse as ours it is imperative to ensure that resource  
is directed at the most relevant risks and that our management is 
sufficiently supported to achieve positive outcomes.  
A year end certification process is completed, under which 
management confirms that risk mitigation controls have operated 
effectively throughout the year and that entities have complied  
with our policies, including the Code of Conduct and anti-bribery 
requirements, as well as fraud prevention processes. As a separate 
exercise, all our senior managers are also required to certify that 
there have been no related party transactions within their areas  
of control. 
Our people have the opportunity to make confidential disclosures 
about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing via an independent 
external service (Speaking Up), details of which have been translated 
into 36 languages and can be found in the Investors section of  
our website. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the FRC’s Guidance  
for Directors on Internal Control (formerly known as the Turnbull 
guidance), the Group’s systems of internal control are designed and 
operated to support the identification, evaluation and management  
of risks affecting the Group. They facilitate the effective and efficient 
operation of our business, provide assurance regarding the integrity 
of our internal reporting and are designed to comply with relevant 
laws and regulations, across all areas of operations. These systems 
are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new 
risks emerge. 
Our risk management approach continues to develop, ensuring we 
continue to identify, manage and monitor the risks we face. 
Risk Management 
The Board and Audit Committee 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy and 
related risk appetite. In addition, the Board is accountable for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk 
management and internal control, with the Audit Committee assisting 
in the discharge of this responsibility. 
The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management system and internal controls and is assisted by the 
Group’s Corporate Assurance department (which oversees the 
completion of the annual assessment of risk management and 
internal control). The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its 
activities and makes recommendations and escalates significant  
risks or issues to the Board as appropriate. 
Ensuring that the Board has the right balance of skills and experience 
to develop our strategy and support its successful implementation, 
including support of, and insight into, the risk management 
approach, is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee. This 
committee provides the Board with the required support to identify 
and recruit the necessary talent to achieve the Group’s objectives. 
Achieving the Group’s objectives in accordance with our Code of 
Conduct and business principles is supported by the Remuneration 
Committee which aligns appropriate senior management objectives 
and remuneration packages. 
In order to assist the Board in its requirement to provide a fair  
and balanced view of business performance, and to assist with  
legal and regulatory compliance, oversight of the integrity of the 
communication of the Group’s financial disclosures is provided by 
the Disclosure Committee. This is chaired by the Company Secretary 
and comprises senior management from across our business. It 
meets as required to consider major financial disclosures including 
the Group’s key periodic external reports, including the consolidated 
and parent company financial statements. 
While risk management and the identification of existing and 
emerging risks are the responsibility of all our people, the Board is 
supported in the assessment of key risks through work facilitated  
by the Group’s Corporate Assurance department. The approach 
ensures a consistent top-down method in how we identify, assess 
and prioritise risks, as well as assessing our existing measures to 
manage and mitigate those risks. 
The top-down approach that supports the Board is complemented 
by an annual bottom-up review by local management across  
the organisation which assesses our principal areas of risk and 
uncertainty across each part of the business. This assessment 
includes a review of both Group and local risks, along with an 
assessment of the mitigating controls in place to manage the risks. 
The separation of risks into Group and Local classifications enables 
appropriate focus at both senior and local management level, and 
assists us in the identification of emerging risks. The Group risks are 
individually owned by a member of the Operating Executive, and 
ongoing development of the risk management approach continues  
to improve consistent management of these risks across our  
global footprint.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22
RISK MANAGEMENT continued
The Operating Executive (OPEX) 
The OPEX is ultimately responsible for the effective operational 
management and mitigation of the Group’s key risks. The successful 
and effective implementation of Group strategies into our operational 
activities is the responsibility of the Operating Executive and its 
functional and divisional management teams. These management 
teams are responsible for ensuring that the Group’s strategic goals 
are achieved in line with Group policies and standards, and that  
we conduct business in compliance with our Code of Conduct.  
This tone from the top extends to responsibility for the monitoring of 
operational and financial performance, the assessment and control  
of financial, business and operational risks and the maintenance  
and ongoing development of a robust control framework and 
environment in their areas of responsibility. 
Operational Management 
Across the business, operational management is responsible for  
the implementation and monitoring of the Group’s processes and 
systems of control. This includes ensuring that our people have 
appropriate training and knowledge to perform their roles in 
accordance with the Group’s policies and standards and defined 
lines of accountability and delegation of authority. 
The Group’s functional and divisional management structures  
enable a continuing process for the identification, evaluation and 
management of significant risks to the achievement of business 
objectives and support the controls in place. 
Oversight 
In addition to the oversight provided by our management structures 
the Group also benefits from the work carried out by subject matter 
experts it employs to manage specific technical or legal and 
regulatory risks. These teams form a key part of our “second line  
of defence” and are referred to as part of our “other assurance 
provider” network. 
These departments design and implement appropriate control 
structures and monitoring in order to manage the relevant risks.  
They also act as centres of excellence, providing advice and 
assistance to the business to help facilitate local solutions where 
necessary. These “other assurance providers” liaise with our  
Director of Corporate Assurance to promote a consistent approach 
and knowledge sharing within the Group’s developing “Total 
Assurance” model. 
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial 
policies and standards adopted within the Group. It also manages 
our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and accurate 
provision of information, which enables the Board to discharge its 
responsibilities, including the production of our half yearly and  
annual accounts. 
Group Finance is supported by a network of finance managers 
throughout the Group who have the responsibility and accountability 
to provide information in keeping with our policies, procedures and 
internal best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual. 
Governance Framework 
The Group’s Corporate Assurance department oversees the  
Group’s risk management process and includes our Group Internal 
Audit team. 
Risk management and assurance activities are key elements of our 
overall governance framework which is based upon a three lines of 
defence model. 
We operate an integrated approach, aligned to ensure that our 
operational management has the tools, knowledge, and support  
in order to manage risks as part of its business as usual  
business processes. 
Key elements of our framework: 
– our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and 
developing the Group’s framework of governance, including  
our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up 
(whistleblowing) process; 
– operational management is provided with training and guidance 
that enables it to implement effective controls and to manage their 
business risks; 
– centres of excellence and Group committees exist in order to 
provide expert technical advice and guidance in the development 
of policy and control relating to our legal and regulatory 
requirements. These centres of excellence provide assurance 
activities that ensure effective risk management is implemented 
through our business processes; and 
– our Director of Corporate Assurance provides assurance that the 
controls to mitigate risks to an acceptable level are operating as 
they should, through both the risk management processes and 
internal audit work.  
This includes co-ordination of the work of other assurance providers 
within the Group who are technical experts in their field of risk 
management such as OHSE and product quality. 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
 
Assurance 
The Internal Audit department provides independent assessment on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk 
management and control across the Group. It achieves this through the completion of reviews which are approved by, and reported to, the 
Audit Committee. 
This approach is aligned to the “three lines of defence” model, adopted as an effective structure for risk management. 
 
ITG Governance Framework 
Board
Operating Executive
Code of Conduct
Deﬁnes the culture of the organisation and sets the standards
of business practice within which our people perform their roles
Regulator
Process and control
implementation and
development
Embed and monitor effective risk management,
legal compliance, and related assurance processes
1
st
 line of defence
Policies,
procedures, training
and standards
Management
control
Internal Audit
Financial control
Group committees
Risk Management
Centres of excellence
Quality
2
nd
 line of defence 3
rd
 line of defence
External Audit Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Risk Management Overview 
In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the impact of 
these risks upon the business. Not all of these factors are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive,  
as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment.  
As is common with most large organisations the Group is subject to general commercial risks; for example, cyber-security breaches, failure  
of our IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, and the impact of competition. 
Risk – Reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market 
What affects us  What we do 
Changes in regulation 
Regulatory restrictions exist in many of our markets which impact our 
consumers by influencing availability, demand and freedom to use 
our products. The introduction of excessive and disproportionate 
regulation, both present and future, could have an adverse effect  
on consumer choice, potentially impacting the demand for our 
products, as well as the cost of continuing to comply with such 
increasing regulation. 
  
The Group’s “rational regulator” strategy is designed to engage with 
key internal and external stakeholders to ensure that proposed 
regulatory change is proportionate and does not lead to excessive 
regulation. This engagement includes: 
– consulting with external experts to provide advice and guidance; 
– engagement, where possible, with regulators; 
– providing industry specific information to ensure that regulators 
have a more balanced fact base; 
– highlighting the unintended consequences of proposed regulatory 
change; and 
– making legal challenges against excessive regulation. 
We prioritise the Group’s expertise and resources according to the 
relevant key regulatory issues. Cross-market liaison is promoted 
within the Group to ensure best practice and opportunities from 
markets already impacted are identified, understood, and applied. 
Increases in excise duty 
Governments across the world perceive the use of tobacco excise 
rates to be a means of raising additional public funding and/or the 
satisfying of public/private tobacco control agendas. 
  
We engage with local tax and customs authorities as well as 
politicians/legislators and media where appropriate to provide 
informed input to the unintended consequences of excise increases. 
The widening price differential between tobacco products in 
neighbouring countries increases both the availability and 
attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic  
duty paid product.  
We take commercial steps to mitigate the impact of this issue 
through the monitoring and compilation of ongoing analysis to ensure 
strategic price and product offerings exist in the context of the excise 
duty structures in each market. Through our portfolio of products we 
are able to meet consumer preferences across different price points.
Illicit trade 
The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is a widening gap 
between price of legitimate and illegitimate product. As a result the 
legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to the significant 
impact and increasing threat of illicit trade. The sale of counterfeit 
product and smuggled “illicit whites” in our markets act as a direct 
competitor to legitimate domestic duty paid, travel retail and duty free 
products, eroding our volumes and market shares. 
  
We seek to work with governments and law enforcement agencies 
around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives, and work alongside  
the European Commission’s Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and law 
enforcement agencies both in the EU and elsewhere. 
In order to achieve this we employ specialist teams to provide 
effective support to the business and governments/law enforcement 
agencies, performing market analysis and intelligence to provide 
appropriate and targeted solutions to the combating of illicit trade.  
We maintain strong business conduct standards and controls, both 
for our business and our first-line customers in order to prevent our 
products being diverted. 
Macro-economic conditions 
A material decline in the economic conditions affecting consumers, 
notably an impact upon disposable income, may change their 
consumption patterns, including an increased propensity to  
purchase illicit products. 
  
We monitor and analyse consumption patterns and economic 
indicators in order to ensure that our current and future portfolio 
provides the consumer with a range of products across different 
price points. This analysis is a key input to our product development 
and pricing strategies. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Risk – Marketplace 
What affects us  What we do 
Marketplace 
The Group has a significant presence in mature European markets 
and thus any material decline in the economic circumstances of, 
and/or our performance in, our key European markets may affect  
our future profit development and have an adverse impact on the 
Group’s revenue or profits. 
Should concerns regarding the future of the euro, or the exit of one 
or more Eurozone countries re-emerge, consumer spending patterns 
could be impacted. Such an event could also cause disruption to the 
business as a whole, including impact upon financing arrangements 
(both Group and Local), and could also have a short-term impact 
upon our Manufacturing and Supply Chain operations. 
As with all businesses our route to market could be affected by 
political instability, civil unrest, and sanctions, and could also  
have a detrimental effect on our Manufacturing and Supply  
Chain operations. 
  
We continuously monitor our exposure and review our portfolio  
and our existing processes and policies to minimise our economic 
exposure and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of potential 
conditions that may exist should one or more of these future  
events occur. 
Our international footprint and comprehensive portfolio provides an 
increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and non-EU markets, 
with the core of our market concentration being in countries with  
a lower risk of political instability and civil unrest. 
The alignment of our market management structures to key strategic 
drivers enables a more consistent approach to the evaluation of risks 
and opportunities.  
Our global manufacturing and supply chain operations have crisis 
management and contingency plans in place which are regularly 
reviewed in line with the risks to their ongoing requirements. 
Financing 
What affects us  What we do 
Funding and liquidity management 
We have a significant level of committed debt, financed in the debt 
capital markets and bank loan markets. We expect any future 
required refinancing of this debt upon maturity to be obtained from 
these markets and for us to be able to rely on funds being available 
from our bank counterparties when requested to be drawn. 
Approximately half of the Group’s debt is currently at fixed levels  
of interest, and therefore the Group is exposed to movements in 
interest rates which could result in higher funding costs and cash 
outflows on the remainder.  
A fall in certain of our credit ratings could raise our cost of funding 
and affect our ability to raise debt with the breadth of funders we 
currently enjoy. 
  
Our Group Treasury Committee (GTC) oversees the operation of 
Group Treasury in accordance with the terms of reference set out  
by the Board. 
The GTC sets out a framework for the treasury function to operate 
within. The framework covers, amongst other things, financing, 
liquidity and counterparty risk and is fully reviewed periodically.  
The GTC receives regular reporting on all matters covered by  
the framework. 
Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics 
are regularly forecast and updated in line with business performance.
This information is considered alongside conditions in debt capital 
and bank loan markets to ensure we are well placed to meet  
the future financing needs of the Group, and optimise its cost  
and availability. 
Legal and regulatory compliance 
What affects us  What we do 
Failure to comply with legislation 
Failure to comply with local and international laws (including 
sanctions) may result in investigations. This may cause damage  
to our reputation and has the potential for financial and criminal 
penalties for both the Group and individuals. 
  
We monitor closely developments in international sanctions and 
actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant  
with them. 
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, 
mandate that all employees must comply with legislation relevant  
to a UK listed company and in the countries in which we operate.  
E-learning courses are provided to management and relevant 
employees to ensure understanding of key regulatory and 
compliance requirements. 
Additionally, senior management certify the compliance of their area 
of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual 
certification process. Exceptions are reported and mitigating  
actions taken. 
Steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide 
expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and 
monitoring of compliance. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued
What affects us  What we do 
Tobacco litigation 
Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group in a number 
of countries. More claims may be brought in the future, including 
claims for personal injury and the recovery of medical costs allegedly 
incurred in treating smokers. If any claim were to be successful, it 
might result in a significant liability for damages and might lead to 
further claims against us. Regardless of the outcome, the costs  
of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be  
fully recoverable. 
  
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group has 
been successful and/or resulted in the recovery of damages. 
We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the defence 
of product liability litigation to provide advice and guidance on 
defence strategies and to direct and manage litigation risk and 
monitor potential claims around the Group. 
Significant market positions 
Our significant market position in certain countries could result  
in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant 
competition authorities, including the potential for monetary  
fines and negative publicity. 
  
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, 
mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in 
the countries in which we operate. 
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the 
obligations and requirements of competition laws. 
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising  
in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding 
interpretation and compliance with competition laws. 
In the event of any investigation (which may or may not result in 
actions being brought against us), we cooperate fully with the 
relevant authority making the investigation and will continue to do so.
Material strategic initiatives 
What affects us  What we do 
In order to achieve our strategic objectives, the Group may be 
required to undertake material initiatives, including acquisitions and 
change programmes. 
The Group operates within a regulatory environment that can  
require the implementation of material initiatives to address  
changing legal requirements. 
 
The Group operates a formal project sign-off approach,  
ensuring an appropriate and transparent review and selection  
of project proposals aligned to the Group’s strategic and  
operational objectives. 
To support the successful delivery of material initiatives within  
the organisation the Group has developed and implemented a 
standardised project management process that provides a robust 
framework to enable effective change management. 
This approach is adopted across the Group and provides a 
consistent and disciplined approach to the management of material 
initiatives, supported by the employment of project managers across 
the Group to ensure the right skills are available to successfully 
deliver such initiatives. 
The majority of the Group’s material change programmes are 
coordinated under a single umbrella programme, ensuring alignment 
of deliverables, management of interdependencies, and limiting the 
impact of change upon our operational activities.  
The Operating Executive receives regular reporting on the  
progress of key projects. This provides a continuing assessment  
of deliverables in changing markets, and the evaluation of 
interdependencies across the business. 
Benefits achieved on key projects are appropriately certified before 
being reported externally. We also carry out post-implementation 
reviews to ensure appropriate feedback is captured to constantly 
improve our change management approach. 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
Mark Williamson Chairman 
“We believe that governance is not only 
about compliance, it’s about acting  
with honesty and integrity in our 
business lives.” 
This year has seen the Board and management drive a number of 
significant developments for the Group including the announcement 
of the acquisition of brands in the USA and the partial listing of  
Logista. It has also seen a number of changes to the Board and  
its Committees, including my appointment as Chairman and the 
appointment of Karen Witts.  
In 2015 we will continue our strategic transition and, subject to 
completion of the acquisition, commence the integration of our 
enlarged US business to support long-term value creation  
without compromising our risk management and internal  
control environment. 
To ensure the success of these developments and that they are in 
the best interests of our shareholders, it is fundamental for the Group 
to be managed with openness, honesty and transparency. This can 
only be achieved by underpinning our actions with high standards of 
corporate governance and learning from past experiences.  
The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders and other 
stakeholders for the Group’s activities, strategy and financial 
performance, the efficient use of the Group’s resources and social, 
environmental and ethical matters. This includes setting the tone  
for our governance framework, which incorporates our Code of 
Conduct together with our values, and is key to the way we work 
both in respect of our relationships between colleagues and with our 
customers and suppliers. Our Code of Conduct can be found within 
the responsibility/standards of behaviour section of our website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
In this report we provide an overview of our governance framework 
and the work of the Board and its Committees. We have continued 
to evolve our reporting to take into account developing practice 
following the recent significant changes to reporting requirements. 
We do not see governance as a box-ticking exercise or simply 
related to processes and controls but rather providing a guide to  
our embedded governance framework. This, together with our 
transparent approach, ensures we do the right things in the right 
way. Achieving this requires the right leadership. Accordingly, our 
Board is composed of Directors from differing international 
backgrounds combined with a wide range of professional and  
sector-specific experience. This ensures that we have a truly 
balanced Board with the right skills and experience to contribute  
fully to effective decision making. 
The standards of behaviour we require from our employees are 
guided by our values and our Code of Conduct and are often more 
stringent than local regulations. Our policies and codes cover key 
issues such as acceptable business practices, ethical and legal 
compliance matters and, physical and data security as well as  
regulatory, governance and occupational health, safety and 
environmental issues. 
More details in respect of our governance framework, including how 
our sound and effective corporate governance practices support our 
strategy, are set out in the following sections and in the discussion  
on effectively managing the risks we face on page 21. 
 
Mark Williamson 
Chairman 
Board
Chairman and 
Non-Executive
Directors
Executive
Directors
Disclosure 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee p32
Audit
Committee p34
Remuneration 
Committee p46
Operating
Executive
Group functions, markets 
and factories
Management and Corporate Structure Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
1 2 
3 4 
5 
6 
7 8 
9 10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
1. Mark Williamson, CA (SA) 
Chairman of the Board  
Skills and experience Mark is a qualified 
accountant, who brings considerable financial  
and general managerial experience to our Board. 
Mark was Chief Financial Officer of International 
Power plc until 2012 and is experienced in 
managing relationships with the investor and 
financial communities. Prior to joining International 
Power plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller 
and Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group. 
Appointment Mark joined the Board in July 2007 
and was appointed Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director in February 2012. He was 
subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman of  
the Board in January 2013 before being made 
Chairman in February 2014. 
External appointments Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and chairman of the Audit 
Committees of National Grid plc and of Alent plc. 
D N Chairman 
2. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA 
Chief Executive 
Skills and experience Since being appointed as 
Chief Executive, Alison has led the development 
and implementation of the Group’s sustainable 
sales growth strategy. Alison joined the Group  
in 1999 and, through a number of senior roles,  
has contributed significantly to the international 
expansion of the Group. 
Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007. 
Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010. 
External appointments Non-Executive Director, 
Inchcape plc since July 2009. 
E 
3. Oliver Tant, BSc, CA (Scotland) 
Chief Financial Officer 
Skills and experience Oliver held a number of 
senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, 
including Global Managing Director Financial 
Advisory and Private Equity Division and Head  
of UK Audit. 
He was also a member of both the UK and 
German boards of KPMG. He brings to Imperial 
international experience in change management, 
organisational restructuring, corporate finance and 
mergers and acquisitions. 
Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors 
in October 2013 and became Chief Financial 
Officer in November 2013. 
External appointments No external Director 
appointments. 
E 
4. Matthew Phillips, LLB 
Corporate Affairs Director 
Skills and experience Matthew has held a number 
of senior roles including General Counsel and 
Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director prior to 
his appointment to the Board as Corporate Affairs 
Director and has been integral to the development 
and implementation of our strategy. 
Appointment Appointed Corporate Affairs Director 
in June 2012. 
External appointments No external Director 
appointments. 
E 
5. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PhD,  
M Inst M 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Ken, an independent 
management consultant, brings significant 
experience of the consumer goods sector in the 
Asia Pacific region. He was President, Asia Pacific 
of Allied Domecq from 1996 until its acquisition by 
Pernod Ricard in 2005.  
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior 
management positions in the Asia Pacific region 
with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers 
& Vintners Ltd (now part of Diageo plc). 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
April 2006. 
External appointments Non-Executive Chairman of 
Elemental Energy Technologies Limited. Director of 
Elemental Energy Technologies (Asia) Pte Limited. 
D A N R 
6. David Haines 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience David brings considerable 
senior level board experience and is currently 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe 
Group Sárl. He joined Grohe in 2004 from 
Vodafone Group PLC where he was Global 
Marketing Director. He is also a former Chairman  
of Vimpelcom A/O. 
David gained extensive general management 
experience with Vodafone Group PLC and  
Mars inc earlier in his career. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director  
in February 2012. 
External appointments Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Grohe Group Sárl, Director  
of Joyou AG. 
D A N R Chairman 
7. Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), 
Solicitor 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel 
for Smiths Group plc. He was formerly General 
Counsel and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions  
for ICI PLC with overall responsibility for  
corporate acquisitions and divestments and has 
extensive experience of both private and public 
market transactions. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director  
in July 2007. In February 2014 he was appointed 
as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
External appointments Serves on the board of 
Compass Partners International LLP and is 
currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc. 
D A N R  
8. Karen Witts, FCA 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Karen brings significant 
financial and management expertise to the Board. 
She is currently Group Finance Director and 
Executive Director of Kingfisher plc and was 
previously Chief Financial Officer of the Africa, 
Middle East, Asia and Asia Pacific Region, at 
Vodafone plc. Prior to that, Karen held a number  
of senior positions at BT, including Chief Financial 
Officer of BT Retail and Managing Director 
Operations Openreach.  
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
February 2014. 
External appointments Group Finance Director and 
Executive Director of Kingfisher plc. 
D A N R 
9. Malcolm Wyman, CA (SA)  
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience As a qualified accountant  
and former Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller  
plc, with responsibility for the group’s financial 
operations, corporate finance and development 
and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only a 
wealth of financial expertise but also considerable 
general management experience to the Board.  
He also meets the recent and relevant financial 
experience requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director  
in October 2011 and chairman of the Audit 
Committee in February 2012. 
External appointments Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Nedbank Group Limited listed  
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and a  
Non-Executive Director and chairman of the  
Audit Committee of Serco Group plc. 
D A Chairman N R 
10. John Downing, MA, Solicitor 
Company Secretary 
Skills and experience John joined Imperial in 2005 
having worked for the law firm Linklaters. 
He has had a number of senior legal roles in 
Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal 
in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis 
acquisition. He has considerable experience in 
managing key corporate projects related to 
financing, business development and other 
commercial matters. 
Appointment Appointed Company Secretary in 
June 2012. 
S 
Key 
E Executive Director 
D Non-Executive Director 
S Company Secretary 
N Nominations Committee 
A Audit Committee 
R Remuneration Committee 
 
 
 
Skills and experience of  
our Board 
The diverse global experience of our NEDs,  
which includes FMCG, finance, mergers  
and acquisitions, and sales and marketing, 
supports the in-depth tobacco experience  
of our Executive Directors.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30
PAGE TITLE
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 
Board 
Mark Williamson Chairman 
“Our continued focus on our sales  
growth strategy creates sustainable  
value for shareholders.” 
Members  
Mark Williamson (Chairman  
from 5 February 2014) 
Iain Napier  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Alison Cooper 
Ken Burnett 
Robert Dyrbus  
(to 5 November 2013) 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy 
 
Susan Murray  
(to 30 September 2014) 
Matthew Phillips  
Berge Setrakian  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Oliver Tant  
Karen Witts  
(from 6 February 2014) 
Malcolm Wyman 
 
John Downing 
Secretary 
Focus in 2014 
– purchase agreement with Reynolds American Inc for the 
acquisition of assets, including a portfolio of US cigarette brands 
and the e-cigarette brand blu; 
– flotation of approximately 30 per cent of Compañía de Distribución 
Integral Logista Holdings SA; 
– continued focus on leadership and Board succession with the 
appointment of Mark Williamson to the position of Chairman and 
the appointment of Karen Witts as a NED; 
– optimising our brand and market portfolios focusing on Growth 
and Specialist Brands; 
– resource allocation between Growth and Returns Markets; 
– completion of our stock optimisation programme; and 
– realigning our cost base through our cost optimisation programme. 
Focus for 2015  
– integration of our enlarged US business*; 
– investment prioritisation in our market and brand portfolios; 
– continuing to support our standalone subsidiary Fontem Ventures 
including the integration of the acquired e-cigarette brand blu*; 
– implement new ways of working to simplify the business and 
improve our effectiveness and agility; 
– continuation of our cost optimisation programme; 
– focus on capital discipline to enhance cash conversion; 
– ensuring regulatory engagement and preparedness; and 
– maintaining focus on our people agenda including building 
capabilities and succession. 
* Subject to the completion of the acquisition noted above. 
Overview 
The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our 
shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group. 
The Board’s role is to provide leadership to the Group, set its 
strategy and oversee its implementation. 
The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving our strategy 
management operates responsibly within our governance framework 
whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards. 
The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way 
they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having regard  
to the interests of other stakeholders. 
As part of the governance framework, the Board has adopted a 
schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision. These 
include approving the Group’s strategy, business plans, dividends 
and major financial announcements. The Board is also responsible 
for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding  
defined thresholds. 
Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for 
developing and implementing the Group’s strategy and for day-to-
day management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is 
supported by the Operating Executive (OPEX), which she chairs. The 
Board also delegates matters to Board committees. Clearly defined 
terms of reference and written limits support these delegations.  
The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.  
It oversees operational execution and delivers our strategic and 
financial plans. The OPEX also ensures that appropriate internal 
controls are in place and are functioning effectively, and that there  
is an effective risk management process in operation throughout  
the Group. 
 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Matters Considered by the Board in 2014 
Five principal scheduled and three unscheduled Board meetings were held during the year 
 
2013
October
December
January
March
April
August
•  Annual Report and Accounts
•  Dividend
•  Business performance
•  Business planning
•  Corporate development
November
• Unscheduled meeting to consider Chairman’s and NEDs’ succession
February
• First quarter results
• Business performance
• Corporate development including 
 Logista partial ﬂotation
• AGM
May
• Half Year Report
• Dividend
• Business performance
• Employee engagement
• Corporate development
June
• Strategy meeting
• Business performance
• US brands acquisition
• Financing
September
• Business performance
• Business plan
• Corporate development
• Board evaluation
• NEDs’ fees
July
• Two unscheduled meetings to consider US brands acquisition
2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32
PAGE TITLE
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 
Nominations Committee 
Mark Williamson Chairman 
“We seek to ensure that we have the  
right people in place to build on our 
strategy and continue to deliver 
significant returns to our shareholders.” 
Members  
Mark Williamson (Chairman  
from 5 February 2014) 
Iain Napier  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy 
 
Susan Murray 
(to 30 September 2014) 
Berge Setrakian  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Karen Witts  
(from 6 February 2014) 
Malcolm Wyman  
 
John Downing 
Secretary 
Achievements for 2014 
– in line with the Group’s ongoing succession plans Oliver Tant was 
identified as an appropriate successor to the Finance Director and 
was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013; 
– Mark Williamson was appointed to the position of Chairman; and 
– appointment of Karen Witts as a NED. 
2015 objectives 
– maintain ongoing succession plans, especially in respect of NEDs 
approaching retirement by virtue of their length of service; 
– ongoing review of skill set and composition of the Board; 
– evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors; 
and 
– NEDs continuing business update and education. 
Overview 
Role 
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition 
of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them  
to function effectively. Succession plans for the NEDs, Executive 
Directors and the Group’s senior management are also kept  
under review.  
The Committee’s terms of reference are available within the investor 
relations/corporate governance section of our website. 
Composition 
The Committee comprises all the NEDs and is chaired by the Group 
Chairman unless it is dealing with the succession to the Chairman. 
Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate. 
Boardroom Diversity 
To maintain the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge, 
professional and geographic backgrounds and experience, we look 
ahead to upcoming retirements to identify potential gaps and appoint 
individuals who are best suited to fill any vacancy. Appointing the 
best people to our Board is critical to the success of the Company; 
the search for candidates and any subsequent appointments are, 
therefore, made purely on merit regardless of gender, race, religion, 
age or disability. Given our commitment to appointing the best 
people and ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of 
developing their careers within the Group, we do not think it is 
appropriate to set targets for Board appointments. 
Women, including our Chief Executive, made up 30 per cent of our 
Board at the end of the financial year. On the retirement of Susan 
Murray, this decreased to 22 per cent. We also have 22 per cent 
women on our OPEX. Further details on our workforce diversity are 
set out on page 17. 
As announced on 5 November 2013, Iain Napier and Berge 
Setrakian retired at the conclusion of our AGM in 2014 and Susan 
Murray retired on 30 September 2014. In addition we welcomed 
Karen Witts to the Board in February 2014. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Election and re-election of Directors 
All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous 
selection process and subsequent recommendation by  
the Committee. 
The performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual 
Board evaluation process. Following the 2014 evaluation, a review of 
the independence of each NED, particularly in respect of those who 
have served six years or more, and consideration of attendance, the 
Board recommends the election or re-election of all Directors at our 
2015 AGM. 
Board succession 
During the year, the Committee identified the profile and skill set 
required for a NED and instructed Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann to 
identify appropriate candidates. Having reviewed the list of potential 
candidates, and subsequent to meetings with shortlisted candidates, 
the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of 
Karen Witts who was subsequently appointed to the Board on  
6 February 2014. The Board recommends her election at our  
2015 AGM.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM  
Board
Nominations 
Committee
Audit  
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
Annual 
General 
Meeting
Total number of meetings in Financial Year 8 34 61
Number of meetings attended in Financial Year  
Executive Directors  
Alison Cooper 8/8–– –1/1
Robert Dyrbus
1
 2/2–– ––
Oliver Tant  8/8 – – – 1/1
Matthew Phillips  8/8 – – – 1/1
Non-Executive Directors  
Mark Williamson 8/8 3/3 2/2 1/1 1/1
Iain Napier
2
  3/3 2/2 – – 1/1
Ken Burnett 8/8 3/3 4/4 6/6 1/1
David Haines
3
 7/83/34/4 6/61/1
Michael Herlihy  8/8 3/3 4/4 6/6 1/1
Susan Murray
3,4
 7/83/32/2 2/21/1
Berge Setrakian
2
,
3
 2/32/2– 2/21/1
Karen Witts
5
 5/51/12/2 5/5–
Malcolm Wyman
3
  7/8 2/3 4/4 5/6 1/1
1  Robert Dyrbus retired from the Board on 5 November 2013.  
2 Iain Napier and Berge Setrakian retired on 5 February 2014. 
3 Berge Setrakian and David Haines were unable to attend one telephone Board meeting, Susan Murray was unable to attend one Board meeting and Malcolm Wyman 
was unable to attend one Board meeting, a Remuneration Committee meeting and a Nominations Committee meeting held on the same day. They did, however, fully 
consider the papers before the meeting and provided their thoughts and recommendations to the relevant Chairmen. 
4 Susan Murray stepped down from both the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 5 February 2014, the ninth anniversary of her election. 
5  Karen Witts was appointed on 6 February 2014. 
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number they were eligible to attend. 
 
  
8 years and over – 1
5 to 7 years – 2
3 to 5 years – 1
1 to 2 years – 2
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34
PAGE TITLE
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 
Audit Committee 
Malcolm Wyman Chairman 
“Our Audit Committee has a key role in 
protecting the interests of shareholders 
by ensuring the integrity of our financial 
statements and the effectiveness of  
our risk management processes and 
internal controls.” 
I would like to give you an overview of the operation of the Audit 
Committee and the work it has undertaken.  
We have set out on page 36 the key matters that we have 
considered during the year and the conclusions drawn. We meet 
formally at key times within our reporting calendar as set out on  
page 35. The agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all 
significant areas of risk over the course of a year and to provide 
oversight and challenge to the key financial controls and processes 
that operate throughout the Group. 
Our internal auditors and our external auditors, PwC, attend all 
Committee meetings and provide detailed reports on their audit work 
to the Committee. The Committee reviews and discusses these 
reports with both management and auditors and holds meetings 
without management being present. I also meet with the Head of 
Internal Audit and the Lead Audit Partner of PwC on a regular basis 
between meetings. 
We invite management to prepare and present a wide range of 
papers to the Audit Committee and I am satisfied that these  
enable effective discussion of the issues. On an ad-hoc basis I  
meet with members of management below Board level to better 
understand the challenges that the business faces. I am able to  
use this understanding to manage the Audit Committee review 
process effectively. 
During the year, we also spent time to build on our understanding  
of the Group’s risk management processes, reviewing the risks  
that face the business and challenging management concerning  
the mitigating controls in place. 
Overall, I am satisfied these activities have enabled the Audit 
Committee to gain a good understanding of the key matters 
impacting the Group during the year along with oversight of the 
culture, governance and operation of its significant controls and 
processes and ultimately to draw the conclusions we set out on 
page 37. 
 
Malcolm Wyman 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
 
Members  
Malcolm Wyman 
Chairman 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy 
Susan Murray  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Mark Williamson  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Karen Witts  
(from 6 February 2014) 
 
John Downing 
Secretary 
Committee Composition 
The Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors 
and is chaired by Malcolm Wyman. Both Malcolm Wyman and Karen 
Witts meet the requirements of the Code and the Committee’s terms 
of reference that at least one of its members has recent and relevant 
financial experience. 
The Board Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, 
Director of Finance and Planning, Group Financial Controller,  
Director of Corporate Assurance, Deputy Company Secretary, 
appropriate financial managers and PwC are invited to attend 
Committee meetings. At each meeting both the Director of  
Corporate Assurance and PwC have the opportunity to meet 
separately with the Committee without management being present. 
Role 
The responsibilities of the Committee include: 
– assessing the integrity of our financial reporting, including ensuring 
that, taken as a whole, including the use of non-GAAP measures, 
our Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy; 
– overseeing and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk 
management, internal control and speaking-up processes; 
– assessing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department; and 
– scrutinising the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
PwC, including reviewing and approving the annual audit plan, 
reviewing the audit findings, monitoring compliance with ethical 
and professional guidance and approving PwC’s terms  
of engagement. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference can be found within the 
Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of our website. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Audit Committee Meetings in 2014 
Four Committee meetings were held in the financial year, at key times within our reporting and audit calendar, and included the following key 
matters on the agenda. 
 
  
2013
October
2014
January
March
May
June
July
August
November
December
• Annual Report and Accounts
• FX management
• Impairment review
• Going concern
• Auditors’ report
• Internal audit report
• Internal control
• Auditors’ fees and independence
February
• Audit planning
• Risk management
• Treasury update
• Auditors’ effectiveness
April
• Half Year Report
• Impairment review
• Auditors’ review of Half Year Report
• Tax
• Auditors’ fees and independence
September
• Annual Report and Accounts preparation
• Adjusted measures review
• Tax
• Signiﬁcant and complex accounting transactions
• Auditors’ report and independence
• Risk management
• Stock optimisation Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Audit Committee continued
Key Matters Considered During the Year 
Significant Financial Judgements 
and Financial Reporting for 2014   How the Committee Addressed these Judgements 
– Goodwill and intangible asset 
impairment reviews. Judgements 
largely related to the assumptions 
underlying the calculations used 
to value the businesses being 
tested. These assumptions 
included long-term business and 
macro-economic projections. 
 
– Detailed reports from management were considered by the Committee. We challenged 
management on the methodology applied, the assumptions used and the achievability of the 
underlying business forecasts. For the individual operating segments (Drive Growth Division and 
Premium Cigars) with the lowest headroom, we considered different scenarios and sensitivities  
to assess whether management’s conclusions were fair and balanced. The Committee also 
considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC. We concluded that 
management’s assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable. 
We also approved the disclosures in our financial statements. Further information on the Group’s 
goodwill and intangible assets is provided in Note 11 to the financial statements. 
– The treatment of restructuring 
costs and their presentation within 
the Group’s financial statements. 
 
– We periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of restructuring 
costs. The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Group’s full year and half year 
results were also reviewed and discussed with management. Following these detailed reviews  
and discussions, we concluded that restructuring costs were exceptional in nature and  
disclosed appropriately. 
– Going concern. 
 
– In order to satisfy itself that the Group has adequate resources to support the going concern 
assumption, the Committee examined the Group’s existing committed funding, its ability to 
generate cash and its ability to raise further external funding. We challenged management’s cash 
projections and sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions. We also considered detailed 
reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC. This enabled us to conclude that the Group  
has adequate resources and we subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the 
going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts. 
– Deferred tax reporting and the 
resulting reported tax charge. 
 
– We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the adequacy of tax loss 
recognition. We also considered whether a provision for deferred taxation in respect of tax 
allowances on an overseas investment was still required given the significantly reduced probability 
that the related temporary difference would reverse. We also considered detailed reports from, 
and had discussions with, PwC in respect of this. Following consideration of such reports and 
discussions, we concluded that the deferred tax calculation and recognition is appropriate. 
– Use of adjusted measures. 
 
– The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management considering the purpose and practice 
of our use of adjusted, or non-GAAP, measures in our external reporting. The Committee 
challenged management on its proposals and held discussions with PwC. Following these 
considerations the Committee concluded that the Group’s use of adjusted measures, including 
the adjustments for stock optimisation, was fair and balanced. 
– Revenue recognition – as with most 
companies, there is a risk that, in 
order to boost revenue in the 
current year, arrangements could 
be made to facilitate sales that do 
not meet the Group’s criteria for 
revenue recognition.  
– We challenged management in respect of revenue recognition and controls over stock in trade. 
This primarily involved considering the amount of inventory held by distributors in key markets and 
the impact of the stock optimisation project. We reviewed reports from PwC and Internal Audit  
on the measurement of stock in trade. The Committee also noted that no material instances  
of inappropriate revenue recognition arose during the external audit. These reviews enabled  
the Committee to satisfy itself that the Group’s criteria for revenue recognition were met. 
– Tobacco-related litigation – the 
Group is exposed to litigation 
arising from claimants alleging 
smoking-related health effects. 
 
– Internal litigation reports were regularly reviewed by the Committee. We also considered reports 
from the Group’s external lawyers which confirmed that the Group continues to have meritorious 
defences to the actual and threatened legal proceedings detailed on page 44 and concluded  
that risks in respect of tobacco-related litigation are appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
– The Group’s foreign exchange 
management. 
 
– We regularly considered reports from management covering foreign exchange exposures and the 
level of net investment hedging. Following consideration of these reports and discussions with 
management, we concluded that the accounting treatment of foreign exchange and the Group’s 
exposure to exchange risks were appropriate.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Key Matters Considered During the Year continued 
Significant Financial Judgements 
and Financial Reporting for 2014   How the Committee Addressed these Judgements 
– Retirement benefits.  
 
– The costs, assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit retirement schemes were regularly 
reviewed by us. Advice was taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the 
assumptions used and we held discussions with management and PwC.  
– Amortisation of intangibles. 
 
– Taking into consideration the portfolio optimisation strategy and focus on growth and specialist 
brands, management have reviewed brand lives during the year. We have considered 
management’s reasoning in determining the useful lives and conclude that the resulting 
estimations in this respect are reasonable. 
– Other accounting matters  
requiring judgement. 
 
– We examined papers prepared by management considering the accounting treatment of 
significant and/or unusual transactions, including, inter alia, certain provisions, credits due  
under the Master Settlement Agreement, settlement and curtailments of certain post-retirement 
benefits, and fees related to certain transactions. We also discussed these matters with PwC.  
Our examination of management’s papers and discussions with PwC supported management’s 
treatment of these items and their disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
Risk Management and Internal Control 
During the year, the Group refined its risk management processes  
to further formalise the evaluation of risks across the business.  
This approach is designed to provide greater consistency in the 
identification and assessment of risks, at both a Group and local 
level. To assist the Committee with its oversight of the risk 
management process and internal controls, Group Internal Audit  
has performed a review of the Group’s risk management approach 
and provided a report on its effectiveness. The Committee also 
received detailed risk management updates during the year. 
Additionally, this work provides further evidence to support the 
Committee’s recommendation to the Board to accept the opinion  
of the annual Internal Control Statement.  
We are aware of the risks to our information technology systems.  
To manage these risks, our Group Internal Audit plan includes  
specific reviews to assess compliance with our relevant information 
technology standards and policies. In line with the reporting of all 
internal audit issues, any significant matters are reported to the 
Committee and their resolution monitored. 
In addition, during the year we formed an Information Security 
Working Group to review the Group’s approach to the wider 
information security topic, as a result of which improvements have 
been made in our approach with further ongoing assessment of 
initiatives being reported on an ongoing basis.  
The above processes and those described in the Risk Management 
section on pages 21 to 26 enable the Board, either directly or 
through the Audit Committee, to review regularly the effectiveness of 
the key procedures which have been established in order to provide 
appropriate internal controls. They also enable the Board to confirm 
that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s significant risks has operated throughout the year and up  
to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts in 
accordance with the requirements of the Code. 
Group Internal Audit Department  
A light-touch effectiveness review of the Group Internal Audit 
Department was carried out during the year, co-ordinated by the 
Company Secretary. The review was questionnaire-based and 
invited responses from members of senior management, the 
chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board. 
Responses were then forwarded to the Chartered Institute of  
Internal Auditors which, based on its experience, compiled the  
results and provided an external perspective. 
Responses were generally positive, recognising that the department 
still needs to evolve further. Actions have been taken to address 
comments made and the recruitment of a new Head of Group 
Internal Audit has helped strengthen the management team within 
Corporate Assurance. Satisfaction surveys completed by operational 
management after each audit continue to show positive results. 
During the year, a number of individuals were recruited into the 
Group Internal Audit Department which enhanced its ability to extend 
its coverage across key risks to the Group, including carrying out 
reviews of various aspects of the strategic change programme and 
providing assurance regarding the stock optimisation initiative. 
Independence of our External Auditors 
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC,  
the Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor 
Independence Policy. This policy provides clear definitions of  
services that our external Auditors may and may not provide and  
can be found within the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance 
section of our website. 
PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Company’s Auditors 
since its demerger in 1996. In line with our Auditor Independence 
Policy, the Group Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum 
of five years (seven years for subsidiary companies). John Maitland, 
our Audit Partner, has been in post since 2013.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 38
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Audit Committee continued
PwC may only provide non-audit services where those services do 
not conflict with its independence, for example tax compliance work. 
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including 
the tendering for non-audit services expected to generate fees in 
excess of £250,000, and pre-approval by the Committee for 
allowable non-audit work that PwC may perform. Our policy also 
establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former 
employees of PwC and for the recruitment of our employees by it. 
During the year, the only non-audit fee in excess of £250,000 was in 
relation to work undertaken in connection with the proposed US 
cigarette brand and e-cigarette acquisition which was considered 
and approved by the Committee chairman. 
During the year, PwC, due to its knowledge of the Group and where  
it was deemed that it was best placed to provide effectively the 
services required, also undertook non-audit work, none of which 
exceeded the above threshold. In our judgement we do not believe 
that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result 
of this work. The non-audit work included: 
– regulatory assurance work pursuant to the proposed US cigarette 
brand and e-cigarette acquisition; 
– advice in relation to project governance over core systems 
development; 
– tax advisory and tax compliance work; 
– verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting and 
underlying processes; and 
– agreed upon processes in respect of the performance criteria of 
our employee share plans. 
In the current year non-audit fees were 66 per cent of total audit fees 
(see Note 4). This ratio is significantly impacted in the current year by 
the work undertaken in connection with the proposed US cigarette 
brand and e-cigarette acquisition. In our view, the level of non-audit 
fees is not out of line with those disclosed by similar companies with 
international activities and in our judgement we do not believe that 
the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result of 
this work. 
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the  
Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration received by 
PwC for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit work. 
The Committee also considered reports by both management  
and PwC which did not raise any concerns in respect of PwC’s 
independence and confirmed that PwC maintains appropriate 
internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.  
The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the relevant 
non-audit work by PwC, as detailed in Note 4, was in compliance 
with the policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting 
our business. No conflicts of interest were found to exist between 
such audit and non-audit work.  
The Committee confirms that the Company continues to receive an 
independent audit service. 
Audit Quality and Approach to  
Audit Tender 
We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high 
standard and effective external audit. Therefore, we formally review 
the performance of our external auditor annually. During the year, 
audit effectiveness questionnaires were completed by members of 
the Committee and senior managers and finance employees from 
across the Group. These questionnaires covered the audit scope and 
planning, quality and delivery, challenge and communication and 
independence. The responses to the questionnaires indicated that 
there was a consistently high perception of auditor effectiveness,  
with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.  
Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its own 
ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwC’s 
reports to the Committee and its interaction with the audit partner, 
the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness 
of the audit. Following the introduction of the audit tendering 
provisions in the Code, the Committee will annually consider if the 
audit should be put out to tender. The result of this year’s review was 
not to put the audit out to tender. The Committee considers that for  
a major international group the tendering of external audit must be 
well planned to ensure that the Group complies with best practice 
corporate governance as well as ensuring the Group receives a high-
quality, efficient and effective external audit service. In compliance 
with the transitional rules of the Competition and Markets Authority 
and the EU, the Committee plans to put the external audit out to 
tender in time for the 2018 year end. 
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Group’s 
choice of external auditors. 
Statement of Auditors’ Responsibilities 
PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on the 
financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial 
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the 
Directors. In addition, it also reports on other elements of the Annual 
Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation and 
reports its opinion to members. PwC’s opinions are included on 
pages 66 and 115. 
Auditors and Disclosure of Information  
to Auditors 
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Annual 
Report and Accounts confirms that: 
– so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information (that 
is, information needed by PwC in connection with preparing its 
report) of which PwC is unaware; and 
– each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish PwC is aware of that information. 
The Board accepted at its October 2014 meeting the Committee’s 
recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM a 
resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full 
with the Code throughout this financial year. The Company has  
not, however, tendered for audit services in the last ten years. 
We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the 
Code’s principles and complied with its detailed provisions. 
Board and its Committees 
Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms of 
reference issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant 
Committee. These are available on our website www.imperial-
tobacco.com. All Committee chairmen report on the proceedings  
of their Committees at the next meeting of the Board and, where 
appropriate, make recommendations to the Board. In addition, 
minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to Board members.  
To ensure Directors are kept up to date on developing issues and to 
enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, 
our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly with 
the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors. 
Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and  
governance through their membership of the Board’s Committees. 
The membership and remit of each Committee is considered on 
pages 32, 34 and 46. The open atmosphere at our Committee 
meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience  
and independence to review critically and, where appropriate, 
challenge constructively strategies proposed by management.  
This ensures the further development of our business, effective use  
of our resources and maintenance of our high standards of conduct. 
Matters Reserved for the Board 
In order to retain control of key decisions, the Board has adopted  
a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision, 
including approval of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the Group’s business strategy, the annual capital 
expenditure plan, major capital projects, major changes to the 
Group’s management and control structure, material investments  
or disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and 
environmental policies, the appointment or removal of Directors and 
the Company Secretary, and treasury policies. Key decisions by the 
Board during the financial year included the proposed cigarette brand 
and the e-cigarette brand acquisition in the US, the partial listing on 
the Spanish stock exchanges of Logista and the appointment of 
Karen Witts as a NED. 
Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive 
Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and Chief 
Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities divided 
between running the Board and the business. They meet regularly 
between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving 
issues and to facilitate swift decision making. They are responsible  
to our shareholders for the successful delivery of our strategy. 
 
Board Composition and Roles 
Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links 
between the Board and our shareholders and management. 
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there were no 
significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.  
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management 
responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Group’s strategy to the Board and, 
once agreed, its implementation.  
Alison promotes the Group’s values, culture and high standards of conduct and 
behaviour which underpins our reputation and supports the delivery of our sustainable 
sales growth. 
Executive Directors Oliver Tant 
Matthew Phillips 
Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing 
the operations of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility for managing 
their own areas of the business. 
Senior Independent 
Director 
Michael Herlihy Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is 
available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through 
the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate. No such concerns were 
raised during the year. 
Michael is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not 
appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved  
by the Chairman. 
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairman’s 
performance evaluation. 
Non-Executive  
Directors 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Susan Murray  
(to 30 September 2014) 
Karen Witts  
(from 6 February 2014) 
Malcolm Wyman 
Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively management’s viewpoints, 
assumptions and performance. They bring to the Board a diverse range of business 
and financial expertise which complements and supplements the experiences of the 
Executive Directors. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 40
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Audit Committee continued
Conflicts of Interest and Independence 
Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could 
have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may 
conflict, with the Company’s interests. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act), our Articles of Association allow the 
Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and  
to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit. 
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational  
and/or transactional conflicts, which are considered at the following 
Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, situational conflicts  
are authorised. We do not allow any Director to participate in such 
considerations or to vote regarding his or her own conflicts. 
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations  
all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have 
been entered in our Conflicts Register. No actual conflicts have  
been identified. The Board considers that these procedures  
operate effectively.  
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting  
in September 2014 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations 
entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that the 
independence of those Directors who have other external board 
appointments or relationships has not been compromised. At this 
meeting, and taking into account the annual Board performance 
evaluation, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue  
to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, 
demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively  
and question management robustly and at all times have the  
best interests of our shareholders in mind. 
We confirm, therefore, that, with the exception of our Chairman who 
met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and 
Susan Murray who had served more than nine years on our Board, 
our NEDs remained independent throughout the year as defined in 
the Code. 
External Appointments 
NEDs may serve on a number of other boards provided they 
continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge 
effectively their duties. The Chairman and the Nominations 
Committee review the extent of NEDs’ other interests throughout the 
year. The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the NEDs 
commit sufficient time to their duties in relation to the Company, and 
the NEDs have also confirmed they have sufficient time to fulfil their 
respective obligations to the Company. 
The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of the 
OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies  
in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of 
the Company. Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, 
Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to 
accept one external non-executive board appointment and to retain 
any fees received from such appointment. 
Information and Training 
The Company is committed to the continuing development of 
Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and develop 
an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the 
markets in which Group companies operate. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.  
The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely 
information, including detailed financial information, to enable them  
to discharge their responsibilities.  
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary 
and, where appropriate, the services of other employees for all 
governance and regulatory matters. Independent professional advice 
is also available to Directors, in appropriate circumstances, at the 
Company’s expense. 
Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed  
on the legal and other duties they owe to the Company. Tailored 
induction programmes are arranged which include industry-specific 
training, visits to the Group’s businesses and meetings with senior 
management. They are also briefed on internal controls at both  
head office and business unit level and provided with information  
on relevant Company policies and governance-related matters. 
Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received 
briefings from PwC and New Bridge Street respectively to ensure 
they remain up to date with current regulations and developments. 
No other training needs were identified in 2014, although ongoing 
training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs. We 
provide regular briefings to Directors on matters such as legislation 
and regulation changes and corporate governance developments. 
Performance Evaluation  
During the year, the Board reviewed, with the assistance of 
Independent Audit Limited, its performance, that of its Committees 
and individual Directors with the aim of improving effectiveness. 
This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its 
Committees, the balance and range of Directors’ skills, diversity, 
succession, how the Board works as a unit and risk oversight. 
As part of the evaluation, our Chairman held meetings with the  
Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other things, the 
performance of the Executive Directors. 
Our Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to consider 
the performance of the Chairman. 
The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was 
presented to the Board at its September 2014 meeting and used  
as the basis for one-to-one development discussions between the 
Chairman and each Director. 
The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue 
to operate effectively and no significant areas for concern were 
identified nor any requirement to provide extra training for our 
Directors. Consequently, the Board and its Committees are satisfied 
they are operating and performing effectively. The evaluation 
confirmed that all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge  
and commitment to contribute effectively to our Board and its 
Committees and that it remains appropriately constituted. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Areas identified for further consideration were, following the  
recent changes to Board membership, continuing to develop the 
cohesiveness of the team and that our NEDs would benefit from  
an increased knowledge and understanding of the wider business, 
for example through site visits and presentations from our wider 
management team. 
We have addressed the issues identified in the 2013 Board 
evaluation and, in line with the Board’s succession plans, we 
announced in November 2013 the appointment of Mark Williamson 
to succeed Iain Napier as Chairman. We have also continued to 
enhance our risk management and internal control processes as 
discussed on pages 21 and 37. 
Insurance and Indemnities 
We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in 
respect of Directors’ and Officers’ liabilities. The Company has also 
entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the 
benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the 
requirements of the Act. These indemnities were in force throughout 
the year and up to the date of this Annual Report. 
 
 
Dialogue with our Investors 
 
 
We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications 
which allow shareholders to understand how we see our prospects 
and the market environments in which we operate. 
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences 
including institutional shareholders and sell side analysts as well  
as potential shareholders. During the year, there were regular 
presentations to, and meetings with, institutional investors in the  
UK, Europe, Canada and the USA to communicate our sales growth 
strategy and answer questions from our investors. Throughout the 
year our senior management team presented at industry conferences 
organised by investor bodies and investment banks for their 
institutional investor bases. Our Investor Relations team managed  
the interaction with these audiences and provided additional  
regular presentations during the year. We also consulted with our 
largest shareholders and their representative bodies in respect  
of the proposed changes to our remuneration policy detailed on 
pages 48 to 52. 
The primary means of communication with the majority of our 
shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year 
Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 
Statements. These are supported by a combination of presentations, 
conference calls, one-to-one meetings and investor meetings in the 
UK, Europe, Canada and the US. 
NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available 
throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested  
and are kept up to date with investor opinion including via our  
annual survey of investor opinions. 
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual Report 
and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their proxy votes, 
the documents are made available to them at least 20 working days 
prior to the meeting. 
We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes, 
including abstentions, either electronically or in paper format.  
At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations  
on our performance and current business activities and all Directors 
make themselves available to meet shareholders after the conclusion 
of the formal business of the AGM. 
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings 
separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all 
resolutions are put to a poll. At the AGM the number of proxy  
votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are provided. 
Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final 
results published through a Regulatory Information Service, on our 
website and via OTCQX. 
At our 2014 AGM we received votes representing approximately  
79 per cent of our issued share capital (excluding shares held in 
treasury at the date of the AGM). 
Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 28 January 2015, full 
details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on 
our website and, where applicable, posted with this Annual Report. 
UK – 56%
United States – 32%
Rest of Europe – 10%
Rest of the World – 2%
Geographical Analysis of Shareholders
(as at 30 September 2014)
Institutional – 90%
Non-institutional – 5%
Retail – 2%
Employees – 1%
Miscellaneous – 2%
Shareholder Composition
(as at 30 September 2014) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Introduction 
One of the Board’s primary responsibilities is to ensure that the 
Company is run in the best long-term interests of our shareholders 
and wider stakeholders. We believe this can only be achieved if the 
activities of the Group are supported by appropriate governance 
processes applied across the Group. 
These processes are illustrated below and in the individual 
Committee reports. 
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the 
following items have been included in other sections of this  
Annual Report: 
– a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included in 
the Strategic Report. The information in our Governance Report is 
included in this Directors’ Report by reference;  
– future developments in the business are included in the Chief 
Executive’s Review; 
– information relating to our people can be found in the Rewarding 
Workplace section; 
– our principal risks can be found in the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties section; and 
– the Directors of the Company during the financial year can be 
found in the Governance report. 
Share Capital 
Details of our share capital are shown in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements. All shares other than those held in treasury are freely 
transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights. 
At our AGM on 5 February 2014 shareholder authority for the 
buyback of up to 106,794,000 shares was obtained. 
As at 30 September 2014 we held 78,909,137 shares in treasury, 
which represented 7.62 per cent of issued share capital and had an 
aggregate nominal value of £7,890,914. 
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 
shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they 
represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. Treasury 
shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights. 
At 30 September 2014 we had been notified of the following interests 
in 3 per cent or more of our shares and there have been no changes 
to this information up to the date of this Annual Report. 
 
Number of 
ordinary shares  
(millions) 
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
BlackRock Inc 53  5.51
2
Capital Group Companies Inc 48 4.99
2
Invesco Limited 47 4.94
1
Morgan Stanley Investment  
Management Limited  42  4.44
1
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30
2
1 Direct holding. 
2 Indirect holding. 
We have not received notification that any other person holds  
3 per cent or more of our shares. 
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected 
persons are shown on page 58. Other than as disclosed on page 51, 
there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors  
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment due to a takeover. 
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is  
given in Note 6 to the Financial Statements and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Financial Results and Dividends 
We include a review of our operational and financial performance, 
current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: 
Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections. 
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the 
financial year was £1,422 million, as shown in our consolidated 
income statement. Note 3 to the Financial Statements gives an 
analysis of revenue and operating profit. 
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet and the related Notes to the Financial Statements. 
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: 
£ million  2014 2013
Ordinary Shares 
Interim paid, 38.8p per share  
(2013: 35.2p)  370 341
Proposed final, 89.3p per share  
(2013: 81.2p)  851 783
Total ordinary dividends,  
128.1p per share (2013: 116.4p)  1,221 1,124
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2015  
to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 16 January 2015. The associated ex-dividend date will 
be 15 January 2015. We paid an interim dividend on 19 August 2014 
to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business 
on 18 July 2014. As announced at our Half Year results on 7 May 
2014, we are moving to quarterly dividend payments with effect from 
financial year 2015. The first and second dividends for financial year 
2015 will be announced with our half year results on 7 May 2015  
and will be paid in June 2015 and September 2015. The third and 
fourth dividends will be announced with the full year results on  
10 November 2015 and paid in December 2015 and, subject to 
AGM approval, in March 2016. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Relations With Other Stakeholders 
Charitable and Political Donations  
As part of our responsible approach and our commitment to 
reinvesting in society, we continue to support the communities in 
which we operate by choosing to allocate some £3.28 million (2013: 
£3.20million) to partnership and community investment. Through the 
UK Charities Aid Foundation we apportion some £1.72 million to 
registered charities. This funds our support of the Eliminating Child 
Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation, our own Altadis Foundation 
and a small number of UK charities connected with our Global Head 
Office. The remaining amount of some £1.53 million is allocated to 
our leaf sustainability partnerships which seek to help rural tobacco 
growing communities, predominantly in sub-Saharan Africa. Our leaf 
partnership projects are mainly enabled directly with suppliers under 
contract, rather than with registered charities. Some £0.03 million 
was also used to support some ad hoc employee fundraising 
activities mainly in response to humanitarian needs in the Balkans 
and Ukraine. The £3.28 million only reflects a centralised budget.  
We do not currently account for additional activities including 
management time, volunteering, gifts in-kind and localised activities. 
More detailed information on our approach to supporting community 
livelihoods can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of 
our website www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr. All charitable donations 
and partnership investments are subject to the requirements of our 
Code of Conduct.  
No political donations were made to EU political parties, 
organisations or candidates (2013: nil). 
Pension Fund 
Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not 
controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of 
which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one 
director chosen by employees and two by current and deferred 
pensioners. This trustee company looks after the assets of the 
pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group  
and are managed by independent fund managers. The pension fund 
assets can only be used in accordance with the fund’s rules and for 
no other purpose. Further details are contained in our Remuneration 
Report on pages 56 and 57. 
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association do not contain any 
entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added to 
or completely new articles may be adopted by special resolution 
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate on 
Change of Control  
The agreements summarised below are those we consider to be 
significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions 
giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are 
subject to a change of control following a takeover bid. 
The Group has nine credit facility agreements that provide that, 
unless the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of 
associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than  
50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company,  
the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation 
made by them under the respective facility agreement and the  
total commitments under that facility agreement will be cancelled. 
The nine credit agreements are: 
– a credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 under which 
certain banks and financial institutions make available to Imperial 
Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance 
Limited a) committed acquisition credit facilities across three 
tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million and $1,500 million, for  
a maximum period of up to three years, four years and six years 
respectively; b) committed credit facilities of €1,000 million for a 
period of up to three years; and c) committed credit facilities in  
two tranches of €2,835 million and £500 million for a period of  
five years; and 
– eight deeds of counter-indemnity each dated 3 June 2014 made 
on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance 
companies and financial institutions each make available to 
Imperial Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued  
on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount of  
£400 million, until 3 December 2019. 
In the event that any of the listed credit facility agreements are 
subject to any such repayment and cancellation, we would expect 
the Group to replace these agreements with similar arrangements in 
order to satisfy its existing funding commitments, ongoing working 
capital and similar requirements, as well as its long-term and 
strategic plans. In particular, the committed acquisition credit facilities 
under the credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 are intended 
to be utilised in due course to satisfy the funding and payment 
obligations of the Group under the asset purchase agreement that 
was entered into with Reynolds American Inc. on the same date. 
Under this asset purchase agreement, the Group has agreed to 
acquire a number of brands and assets from Reynolds American Inc. 
currently owned by Reynolds American Inc. and Lorillard Inc. for a 
consideration of $7.1 billion, following the proposed acquisition of 
Lorillard Inc. by Reynolds American Inc. The transaction is expected 
to complete in the spring of 2015 and, in the event of any such 
repayment and cancellation of the committed acquisition credit 
facilities, we would expect the Group to replace these credit  
facilities with similar or other arrangements in order to enable it  
to satisfy its funding and payment obligations under the asset 
purchase agreement. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC (the Issuer) has issued bonds under  
a Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) Debt Issuance Programme  
(as noted below). The Company acted as guarantor.  
The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control 
provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any 
earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require 
the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s option, purchase that note  
at its nominal value if: (a) any person, or persons acting in concert  
or on behalf of any such person(s) becomes interested in: (i) more 
than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of  
the Company; or (ii) such number of shares in the capital of the 
Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights 
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company; and (b)  
as a result of the change of control, there is either: (i) a reduction to a 
non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment grade 
rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced 
by an investment grade rating during the change of control period 
specified in the final terms; or (ii) to the extent that the notes are not 
rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain  
an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of 
control period as a result of the change of control. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: 
– 15 September 2008 £600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2024; 
– 17 February 2009 £1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2022; 
– 17 February 2009 €1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2016; 
– 24 June 2009 £500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2019; 
– 5 July 2011 €850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2018; 
– 26 September 2011 £500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed  
notes due 2026; 
– 2 December 2011 €750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2019; 
– 28 February 2014 €1,000,000,000 2.25 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2021; 
– 28 February 2014 €650,000,000 3.375 per cent guaranteed  
notes due 2026; and 
– 28 February 2014 £500,000,000 4.875 per cent guaranteed  
notes due 2032. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the  
United States of America under the provisions of section 144a  
and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act (1933). The 
Company acted as guarantor. The final terms of this series of notes 
contain change of control provisions under which the holder of each 
note will, subject to any earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, 
have the option to require the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s 
option, purchase that note at 101% of its nominal value if (a) (i) any 
person (as such term is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (the Exchange Act)) becomes the beneficial owner of more than 
50 per cent of the Company’s voting stock; or (ii) there is a transfer 
(other than by merger, consolidation or amalgamation) of all or 
substantially all of the Company’s assets and those of its subsidiaries 
to any person (as such term is used in the Exchange Act); or (iii) a 
majority of the members of the Company’s Board of Directors is  
not continuing in such capacity; and (b) as a result of the change  
of control, there is either: (i) a reduction to a non-investment grade 
rating or withdrawal of the investment grade rating of the notes which 
is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade 
rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms; 
or (ii) to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the 
change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade 
credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as a 
result of the change of control. 
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: 
– 11 February 2013 $1,250,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2018; and 
– 11 February 2013 $1,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2023. 
Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation  
Ireland 
In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has 
fallen to only five. In four of these cases, the claimants are deceased 
and their solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact 
their families. The fifth case has been inactive since 2003 and can be 
assumed to have been abandoned. Even if it reactivates, it is very 
likely that it would be struck out on grounds of delay. 
Spain 
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we were 
involved in a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative Court (the 
CADAN) on behalf of the Regional Government of Andalucia (the 
Junta). The claim was brought against Altadis and a number of other 
tobacco companies, as well as the State. On 23 December 2013, 
the CADAN dismissed the Junta's claim on procedural grounds.  
The Junta did not register an intention to appeal. Since all deadlines 
for appeal have now expired, the case is closed.  
Italy 
We are currently facing two claims in Italy. The first is against Logista, 
which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and  
the admission of evidence. This challenge was heard in 2006 but 
judgment is still awaited. 
The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina by  
two individuals claiming €800,000 in total. We have denied liability. 
The first hearing took place on 17 September 2014 and the next 
hearing has been scheduled for 24 June 2015. 
To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any 
claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Tobacco  
or any of its subsidiaries. Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its 
lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set 
out above. We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation 
against us. 
Statement of the Directors in  
Respect of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements  
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider  
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. When arriving at this position the Board was 
assisted by considering the output and reports from a number of 
long-established and embedded processes including the following: 
– the Audit Committee reviewed the use of adjusted measures and 
their appropriateness in aiding users of our financial statements to 
better understand our performance; 
– the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management 
with overall co-ordination by the Director of Group 
Communications to ensure consistency across sections; 
– an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure  
factual accuracy; 
– comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report are 
undertaken by members of the OPEX and other senior 
management; 
– an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by our internal  
Audit Department, our Disclosure Committee, legal advisers  
and brokers;  
– the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to 
consideration by the Board;  
– our Board members also receive drafts of the Annual Report and 
Accounts in sufficient time to facilitate their review and input; and 
– discussing the draft Annual Report with both management and 
PwC and where appropriate challenging the content and any 
judgement and assumptions used. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have 
elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements  
in accordance with United Kingdom GAAP (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and Applicable Law). Under company law, the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors 
are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent Company financial statements respectively; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue  
in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on  
page 29, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and 
– the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report were approved and 
signed by order of the Board. 
 
John Downing 
4 November 2014 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46
PAGE TITLE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
Remuneration Committee 
David Haines Chairman 
“Our remuneration strategy is focused on 
supporting our business strategy in the 
drive to maximise long-term sustainable 
shareholder returns.” 
Members  
David Haines Chairman 
Ken Burnett  
Michael Herlihy 
Susan Murray  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Berge Setrakian  
(to 5 February 2014) 
Mark Williamson  
(to 5 February 2014)  
Karen Witts 
(from 6 February 2014) 
Malcolm Wyman  
 
Trevor Williams Secretary 
Decisions for 2014 
– remuneration review and recommendation to shareholders to 
withdraw future awards to Executive Directors under the Share 
Matching Scheme (SMS) with the previous benefit consolidated 
into the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP); 
– 2014 annual bonus payment calculated to be 69 per cent of  
the maximum opportunity; 
– LTIP granted in November 2011 partially vested in  
November 2014; 
– SMS granted in February 2012 will lapse in February 2015; and 
– in relation to the retirement of Robert Dyrbus, confirming all 
elements of remuneration to be actioned in line with policy with  
no discretions exercised in his favour.  
Material changes for 2015  
Subject to shareholder approval, implementation of the revised 
remuneration policy, including:  
– the withdrawal of the SMS for Executive Directors; 
– amendment to mandatory deferral of bonus to require that half  
of any bonus paid be deferred into shares and released after  
three years; 
– selected increases in variable pay opportunity; 
– introduction of a cash conversion measure to the annual bonus;  
– introduction of two-year holding period for vested LTIP awards,  
in respect of awards granted in February 2015 onwards; and 
– strengthening of claw back provisions. 
Dear Shareholder  
Over recent years, we have made changes to our remuneration 
policy to maintain alignment with our evolving strategic priorities.  
We continued to strengthen this alignment during 2014 in line with 
the shareholder-approved remuneration policy introduced at last 
year’s AGM, which can be found in our 2013 Annual Report available 
on our website, through some additional changes to the measures  
in our incentive schemes and by further increasing the focus of our 
executives’ pay towards the long-term. 
Whilst the external environment continues to be challenging, our 
good performance in 2014 resulted in an annual bonus pay-out for 
Executive Directors of 69 per cent. Performance against earnings 
targets, adjusted for the effects of the stock optimisation programme, 
was strong; and volume and net revenue targets, again adjusted for 
the effects of the stock optimisation programme, were partially met. 
However, this recent progress has yet to be seen in the outcomes of 
the long-term schemes; there will be minimal vesting of LTIP awards 
made in November 2011 and no vesting of SMS awards made in 
February 2012.  
Subject to shareholder approval, from 2015, we plan to remove  
the SMS for our most senior employees. Whilst the SMS has  
been an effective scheme to promote share ownership across the 
Company, we have taken heed of some investors’ opposition to  
two long-term incentive schemes and we believe we can achieve  
the same alignment and retention more simply. We have, therefore, 
consolidated the SMS opportunity into the LTIP and, in order to 
preserve the retention effect, will require that half of all earned bonus 
is deferred in shares for three years. An additional holding period of 
two years will also apply to vested LTIPs. 
We also propose to rebalance the weightings of measures in the 
LTIP to place greater emphasis on the measures by which executives 
can drive the success of the business, increasing the weight in 
earnings growth and reducing TSR. The Committee continues to 
review incentive measures annually and for the financial year to  
30 September 2015 it proposes to introduce cash conversion 
alongside earnings, revenue, growth brand performance and  
market share measures to reflect the balance of our strategy.  
Oliver Tant was appointed last year on a below-market salary with an 
intention to raise his pay, over time, to market levels contingent on 
performance. We believe this mechanism is in the Company’s and, 
therefore, shareholders’ best interests. Following a strong first year, 
the Committee considered it appropriate to bring Mr Tant’s salary 
closer to the market and, therefore, increased it.  
During the course of the year, we received feedback on proposed 
changes from a number of our larger investors, which we considered 
carefully. As a Committee our role is to balance these individual 
investor perspectives with our overall responsibility to ensure that 
remuneration arrangements enable us to attract, motivate and  
retain employees of the requisite quality to optimise sustainable 
shareholder returns.  
 
David Haines 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Governance 
The Role of the Remuneration Committee 
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive 
remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.  
The Committee’s principal function is to support the Group’s strategy 
by ensuring that its delivery is incentivised by the remuneration  
policy, described below. It also determines the specific remuneration 
package, including service contracts and pension arrangements,  
for each Executive Director and our most senior executives. 
The Committee held six meetings during the financial year.  
The Committee’s responsibilities include: 
– ensuring the Group’s remuneration arrangements support its 
strategy, align with its values and drive performance; 
– maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to  
the business environment of the countries in which we operate, 
thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high-calibre individuals; 
– aligning senior executives’ remuneration with the interests of long-
term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is fair but  
not excessive;  
– assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar  
as it relates to the Remuneration Committee;  
– making recommendations to the Board in respect of our 
Chairman’s fees; 
– setting targets for the performance-related elements of 
remuneration packages;  
– oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration 
and of our employee share plans; and 
– ensuring appropriate independent advisers are appointed to 
provide advice and guidance to the Committee. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference provide further details of the 
role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on the 
Company’s website. 
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive 
Directors which we see as fundamental in ensuring Executive 
Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration is set by people who 
are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than 
as shareholders, in the matters discussed. 
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee 
meeting allows the members to meet without any Executive Director 
or other manager being present. 
During the year, Iain Napier (Company Chairman to 5 February  
2014), Mark Williamson (Company Chairman from 5 February  
2014), Alison Cooper (Chief Executive), Oliver Tant (Chief Financial 
Officer) and John Downing (Company Secretary) were consulted, 
including to provide a performance context to target setting, and 
invited to attend, where appropriate. Trevor Williams (Deputy 
Company Secretary) also attended each meeting as secretary  
to the Committee. 
The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward 
Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on 
market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and 
our employee share plans. Their attendance ensured the Committee 
was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it 
then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and our most senior executives. 
No one is allowed to participate in any matter directly concerning the 
details of his or her own remuneration or conditions of service. 
This Policy Report has been prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). It also meets the 
requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules. In this Report we describe how 
the principles of good governance relating to directors’ remuneration, 
as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the Code), 
are applied in practice. The Remuneration Committee confirms that 
throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these 
governance rules and best practice provisions and will detail in the 
2015 report how it applied the provisions of the revised Code which 
applies to the Company from its financial year commencing on  
1 October 2014. 
The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on the 
audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their 
opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance 
with the Act. The Auditors’ opinion is set out on page 66 and we 
have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Policy Report 
Our strategy and business model (further explained on page 2) drive our remuneration policy. The consistent and successful application of our 
strategy, incentivised by both short- and long-term performance measures, has delivered significant returns to shareholders and the measures 
proposed within the revised policy focus on building on this track record. 
To continue to deliver our strategy we need high-calibre individuals with the skill set and experience appropriate to drive the performance  
of a Group of the scale and complexity of Imperial Tobacco. Our policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, base salary  
with significant weighting towards performance-based elements the measures of which incentivise and support the delivery of our strategy 
whilst also reflecting individual, functional and corporate performance. We aim to set and rigorously apply targets that are both stretching  
and achievable. 
Whilst our incentive plans provide for the Committee to exercise discretion in the determination of vesting, this is only used in exceptional 
circumstances and if exercised will be disclosed, at the latest, in the report on implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year  
in question.  
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
It is intended that the Remuneration Policy set out in this Report will, if approved, for the purposes of section 226D(6)(b) of the Act, take effect 
immediately after the AGM on 28 January 2015. 
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Salary  Attract and retain 
high-performing 
individuals reflecting 
the market value of 
role and the Executive 
Director’s skills, 
experience and 
performance. 
Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee 
taking into account each Executive Director’s performance together 
with changes in role and responsibility. 
Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October. 
The Committee considers pay data for both UK companies and those 
operating overseas. For the UK we compare against listed companies 
closest to us by FTSE ranking (and excluding those in the financial 
services sector) and we also reference the FTSE 30 and FTSE 50 
excluding financial sector companies. Our international comparator 
group includes companies of a similar size, broad sector focus and 
global footprint. These comparators serve to define a “playing field” 
within which an individual’s rewards need to be positioned. In 
determining individual remuneration, the primary factors taken into 
account are individual performance, the scale of the challenges 
intrinsic to that individual’s role, their ability and experience. 
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase. 
The Committee takes 
into account each 
Executive Director’s 
performance, together 
with changes in role  
and responsibility and 
considers general 
increases for the UK 
wider management 
population. 
Benefits Competitive benefits 
taking into account 
the market value of 
the role and benefits 
offered to the wider 
UK management 
population. 
Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, life 
insurance and permanent health insurance which are provided  
directly or through the Company pension scheme. 
Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan. 
Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if/ 
when applicable. 
The level of benefit 
provision is fixed. 
Annual 
Bonus 
Plan 
Incentivise delivery  
of Group strategic 
objectives and 
enhance 
performance. 
At least 60% of the annual bonus will be linked to key financial metrics 
and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.  
Performance below the threshold results in zero payment. Payments 
rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of 
performance between the threshold and maximum targets. 
Half of any annual bonus paid would be in deferred shares to be held 
for a minimum of three years with the other half paid in cash. 
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw back provisions are 
in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus. 
200% of base salary  
or such lower sum  
as determined by  
the Committee. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Share 
Matching 
Scheme 
Incentivise the delivery 
of Group strategic 
targets. Promote 
share ownership 
worldwide across the 
Imperial Tobacco 
management team.  
It is intended that, subject to shareholder approval of the revised 
Remuneration Policy, there will be no further awards to Executive 
Directors under the SMS. However, outstanding awards will vest  
or not in line with the performance conditions and other terms of  
the relevant award. 
Awards granted February 2014 
Awards have a performance period of three financial years and the 
level of vesting is based on financial measures with underpins. 
In respect of each performance element, performance below the 
threshold target results in zero vesting. Vesting of each performance 
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance 
between the threshold and maximum targets. 
There is no opportunity to re-test. 
Claw back provisions are in place. 
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting. 
Awards granted February 2012 and February 2013 
Awards were based on an earnings per share (EPS) performance 
condition only. 
Subject to shareholder 
approval of the revised 
policy no future awards 
will be made to 
Executive Directors. 
Maximum match 1:1 of 
shares invested. Plus, in 
respect of the February 
2014 award, shares 
equivalent to the value 
of the dividend roll-up. 
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan 
Incentivise long-term 
Group financial 
performance in line 
with the Group’s 
strategy and long-
term shareholder 
returns. Align 
Executive Directors’ 
interests with those  
of long-term 
shareholders. 
Awards to be granted during or after January 2015 
Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at 
the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are 
based 20% on relative total shareholder return (TSR) vs a peer group 
and 80% on financial measures. 
In respect of each performance element, performance below the 
threshold target results in zero vesting. Vesting of each performance 
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance 
between the threshold and maximum targets. 
There is no opportunity to re-test. 
Claw back and malus provisions are in place. 
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting. 
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two-year  
holding requirement. 
Awards granted November 2013 
Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at 
the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are 
based 50% on TSR vs a peer group and 50% on financial measures 
with underpins. 
In respect of each performance element, performance below the 
threshold target results in zero vesting. Vesting of each performance 
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance 
between the threshold and maximum targets. 
There is no opportunity to re-test. 
Claw back provisions are in place. 
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting. 
Awards granted before February 2013 
Prior to February 2013 awards were based 50% on an EPS 
performance condition and 50% on relative TSR performance 
conditions only.  
It is intended that all awards will vest or not in line with the performance 
conditions and other terms of the relevant award. 
Chief Executive Officer: 
350% of base salary. 
Other Executive 
Directors: 250% of base 
salary or such lower 
sum as determined by 
the Committee. 
Plus shares equivalent 
to the value of the 
dividend roll-up. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Pensions Attract and retain 
high-performing 
Executive Directors. 
Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other 
employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK (the 
Fund). Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 
2010 are members of the defined benefit section whereas Executive 
Directors joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership 
of the defined contribution section. Executives have the option to 
receive a cash supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund, or in lieu 
of accrual on pensionable salary above the Fund’s earnings cap, or in 
lieu of future service accrual.  
Members of the defined benefit section of the Fund accrue pension at 
a rate between 1/47th and 1/60th of pensionable salary. Further detail 
is provided on page 56. 
The rules of the Fund detail the pension benefits which members can 
receive on retirement, death or leaving service. 
The Committee may amend the form of any Executive Director’s 
pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation 
or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase 
the cost to the Company of an Executive Director’s pension provision. 
Current policy is for a 
defined contribution and 
cash supplement limit  
of 26% of salary. 
Existing members of the 
defined benefit section 
have a cash in lieu of 
pension accrual limit  
of 35% of salary. 
Committee Discretions Relating to Variable Pay Schemes 
The Committee will operate each of the Company’s incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and in 
accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant. The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards 
to the operation and administration of these plans. These include, but are not limited to, the following: 
– who participates in the plan; 
– the timing of grant of an award and/or payment; 
– the size of an award (subject to the maxima set out in plan rules and the policy table above); 
– the choice of performance measures and targets for a new award under each incentive plan (in accordance with the policy set out above); 
– the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration 
of whether and, if so, how, adjustments should be made (subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the 
revised target being no less challenging than the original target); 
– discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances (e.g. rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events and special dividends); and 
– determination of a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen. 
In relation to the Annual Bonus, SMS and LTIP, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which cause the 
Committee to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their 
original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended. Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting 
policy over the performance period. Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and, if appropriate, be the subject to consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. The use of discretion  
in relation to the Company’s SAYE plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules. 
Payments from Existing Awards 
Subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment, and existing awards 
may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy 
detailed in this Report. 
Performance Measure Selection 
The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Group’s key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect 
both financial and non-financial objectives. 
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually and considers the combination of measures in the LTIP, ie adjusted EPS, net 
revenue and relative TSR, remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group. TSR aligns with the Company’s 
focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for outperformance of sector peers. EPS provides strong line-of-sight for 
Executive Directors and supports the Group’s long-term strategy. Net revenue supports the Company’s focus on organic growth. 
Performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the  
economic environment.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees 
The Company’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of 
experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies. 
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors. Other employees 
are eligible to participate in performance-led annual bonus plans. Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational 
level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate. 
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP (c.50 individuals) and the majority of members of the Corporate Management Group are 
eligible to participate in the SMS (c.1,100 individuals). 
Total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below. 
 
The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded. Assumptions made for each scenario are  
as follows: 
– Minimum: fixed remuneration only (ie salary, benefits and pension). 
– Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards. Note that Imperial 
Tobacco does not have a stated ‘target’ for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs. 
– Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards. 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments  
The Company’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service agreements normally continue until the Executive Director’s agreed retirement date 
or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor 
any other entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. In addition, in some 
limited cases career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period. Under the terms of our Articles of 
Association, all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
Executive Directors’ service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and  
5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits but these are at the Company’s sole discretion. The Company is unequivocally against 
rewards for failure. The circumstances of any termination (including the individual’s performance) and an individual’s duty and opportunity  
to mitigate losses would be taken into account in every case; our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive 
Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would 
be paid monthly in arrears.  
For Executive Directors leaving employment with Imperial Tobacco for specified reasons (including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health 
and disability, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control) annual 
bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances. 
Under the rules of both the SMS and LTIP, outstanding awards vest if an Executive Director leaves for specified reasons (as detailed above).  
In these circumstances an Executive Director’s awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been  
held and the achievement of the performance criteria. The awards will vest either on termination of the Executive Director’s employment with 
the Group or, for awards granted under the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 or later, at the normal vesting date, as the Committee 
determines in its absolute discretion. If the termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not 
exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, an Executive Director’s awards lapse entirely.  
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements 
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control 
Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
  
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
Max Target Minimum
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
Max Target Minimum
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
Max Target Minimum
Salary, pension and beneﬁts Annual bonus LTIP
100%
£1,274
£3,083
41%
28%
31%
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
20%
51%
29%
£6,582
100%
£810
44%
22%
34%
£1,834
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
22%
43%
35%
£3,645
100%
£655
49%
32%
19%
£1,355
Corporate Affairs Director
26%
34%
40%
£2,580
Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2014/15 ﬁnancial year (£’000) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Recruitment of Executive Directors 
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in 
force at the time of appointment. The Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements when it considers these to be  
in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders. Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost  
when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism (i.e. cash, shares, options), time horizons and performance 
requirements attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment. The Committee 
may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or  
retention of the relevant individual. The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.  
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to 
its terms on grant. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are 
put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following appointment.  
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and 
within the limits set by the Remuneration Committee.  
Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments 
We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.  
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a  
FTSE 100 company. At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such  
non-executive directorship. 
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the £55,000 fee received from this position in the 
financial year. 
Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Fees Attract and retain  
high-performing 
individuals. Portion  
of fees applied to 
purchase of shares to 
align interests with 
those of shareholders. 
Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board (after 
recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman). 
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October. 
The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee consider pay data 
at comparator companies of similar scale. 
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees receive additional fees. 
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate in 
the Group’s employee share plans. 
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase. 
Aggregate annual fees 
limited to £2.0 million by 
Articles of Association. 
Benefits Travel to the 
Company’s  
registered office. 
Travel to the Company’s registered office is recognised as a  
taxable benefit. 
Grossed-up costs  
of travel. 
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time 
commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business 
hours and both prior to and at the AGM. 
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by  
the Board on 4 February 2014. There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on 
termination. Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
Shareholding Guidelines 
Whilst placing significant weight on our annual performance, our remuneration policy aligns the long-term interests of our shareholders and 
other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long-term. To support this 
alignment, we have share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold  
a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares. 
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Group’s shares to a minimum value 
broadly equivalent to three times their respective base salary. Other senior managers are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between 
once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade. Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when 
determining eligibility for LTIP awards. 
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares 
which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Consultation with Employees 
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the 
general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining 
remuneration policy for the Executive Directors. 
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared with Other Employees  
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group. However, there are 
some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Remuneration 
Committee believes is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility. The key difference in policy is the increased emphasis on long-
term performance related pay for Executive Directors. 
Consideration of Shareholder Views 
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the 
AGM. This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is then considered as part  
of the Company’s annual remuneration policy review.  
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to 
ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues. When any material changes are made to the Remuneration 
Policy, for example the proposed changes to our policy detailed above, the Remuneration Committee chairman will inform major shareholders 
in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these changes. 
How the Committee implemented the Remuneration Policy for Financial Year Ended  
30 September 2014 
Linking Remuneration with Strategy 
We focus on delivering high-quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows. Ensuring that our sales 
growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term 
returns to shareholders. 
Alignment with our 
Strategy 
Sustainable sales growth is at the heart of our strategy. This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of 
sales growth within our variable remuneration – both the annual bonus and LTIP. Stretching performance 
targets incentivise the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value. 
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus. Profitability, mainly in the 
form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP.  
Cash conversion will be added as a measure for the annual bonus in the coming year. 
Alignment with our 
Shareholders 
To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the 
Company’s shares through both direct shareholdings (supported by shareholding requirements for senior 
executives) and through our share plans with the value of the Corporate Management Group’s overall 
remuneration being heavily dependent on the performance of our share price. 
Attracting and Retaining 
the Right People 
Our Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure a high-quality pool of talented employees at all levels who are 
incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging 
them to take undue risks. 
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the 
other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure. 
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance-based elements. 
Implementing Executive Policy and Practice  
In implementing the Company’s Remuneration Policy (as detailed on pages 64 to 69 of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
available on our website), the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of 
total remuneration is a matter of judgement. In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of  
similar scale and operating in a similar sector. Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the 
Company offers but, at most, serve to define a “playing field” within which an individual’s rewards need to be positioned. In determining  
that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individual’s role, his or her ability, 
experience and performance. 
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual 
opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with more than 30 per cent of eligible employees 
participating in one or more plans. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for each Director (Audited)  
£’000 
2014 
Salary 
and fees 
2013 
Salary  
and fees 
2014 
Taxable 
benefits
1
2013 
Taxable 
benefits
2014 
Annual 
bonus
2
2013 
Annual 
bonus
2014 
Share 
plans 
vesting
3
2013 
Share 
plans 
vesting 
2014 
Pension 
benefits
4
 
2013 
Pension 
benefits  
2014 
Total 
2013 
Total 
Executive Directors      
Alison Cooper, Chief Executive 920 920 16 16 1,270 626 151 – 293 449 2,650 2,011
Oliver Tant
5
, Chief Financial Officer 575 – 16 – 595 – – – 150 – 1,336 –
Robert Dyrbus
6
, Finance Director 63 665 2 27 66 339 – – 58 233 189 1,264
Matthew Phillips, Corporate  
Affairs Director 435 435 22 11 375 185 26 – 134 215 992 846
 1,993 2,020 56 54 2,306 1,150 177 – 635 897 5,167 4,121
Non-Executive Directors      
Mark Williamson, Chairman
7,8
 338 116 3 2 – – – – – – 341 118
Iain Napier, Chairman
7
 156 450 2 2 – – – – – – 158 452
Ken Burnett 73 73 28 29 – – – – – – 101 102
David Haines
8
 86 73 11 4 – – – – – – 97 77
Michael Herlihy
8
 96 93 3 2 – – – – – – 99 95
Susan Murray 73 73 1 1 – – – – – – 74 74
Berge Setrakian
9
 25 73 16 38 – – – – – – 41 111
Karen Witts
10
 47 – 1 – – – – – – – 48 –
Malcolm Wyman
8
 98 98 5 15 – – – – – – 103 113
 992 1,049 70 93 – – – – – – 1,062 1,142
Payments to former  
Executive Directors      
Robert Dyrbus
6
 102 – 3 – 106 – 147 – – – 358 –
1 Taxable benefits principally include an allowance in lieu of, or the provision of, a company car (£15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant and £20,227 in 
respect of Matthew Phillips), fuel and health insurance. Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to Board 
meetings held at the Company’s registered office. 
2 Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2014. 
3 Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year. Comparator figures represent the actual value of 
awards vesting. 
4 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on page 56. 
5 Oliver Tant was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013.  
6 Robert Dyrbus retired from the Board on 5 November 2013 but remained an employee until 31 December 2013. 
7 Mark Williamson succeeded Iain Napier as Chairman on 5 February 2014. 
8 Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of £25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of £20,000 in respect 
of the Remuneration Committee and £25,000 in respect of the Audit Committee. Mark Williamson’s fee as Deputy Chairman was £100,000 per annum. 
9 Berge Setrakian retired from the Board on 5 February 2014. 
10 Karen Witts was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014. 
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed up for tax where expenses 
represent a taxable benefit. No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances. No Directors waived their fees. 
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration (Audited) 
This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.  
In particular, it provides information on the extent to which annual performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and the 
extent to which three-year performance conditions have been satisfied for each share plan, namely the SMS and LTIP. 
Determination of 2014 Annual Bonus 
Despite a challenging external environment, management delivered a good performance in the year to 30 September 2014, strengthening our 
brands and market footprint, increasing cash conversion and considerably reducing net debt. As a result, we are a stronger business and 
delivered a 10 per cent increase in dividend. 
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2014, is calculated at  
69 per cent of maximum opportunity. The Committee believes this to be an appropriate reflection of the performance and progress made 
through the year. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Performance against individual measures is set out below.  
Performance target Assessment 
Maximum 
percentage 
of bonus
Actual 
percentage 
of bonus
Adjusted EPS growth  
(constant currency) 
Performance is measured based on underlying EPS growth, adjusted to 
remove the impact of the stock optimisation programme, at constant 
currency. Increases in topline revenues together with a stronger focus on 
cost optimisation and cash conversion provided growth in underlying EPS  
of 6.8 per cent against a maximum target of 6 per cent.  50 50
Net revenue growth
1
 Performance is measured based on underlying net revenue growth, adjusted 
to remove the impact of the stock optimisation programme. 
A focus on portfolio management, pricing and innovation supported 
underlying growth of 1.6 per cent against a context of market volume 
declines of 4 per cent. Whilst a strong performance in relative terms,  
this was some way behind our maximum target of 4 per cent growth. 20 8
Volume growth in  
growth brands
1
 
Performance is measured based on underlying volume growth of our Growth 
Brands relative to the market, adjusted to remove the impact of the stock 
optimisation programme. 
Underlying Growth Brands volumes increased by 10.9 per cent relative to the 
market, further building the strength of our key brand assets. This strong 
performance was against a maximum target of 11.8 per cent relative growth. 10 9
Non-financial
1
 Non-financial measures consisted of aggregate market share targets for 
Returns and Growth Markets. 
We showed resilience in Returns Markets, with good share performance in a 
number of markets. However, market size declines in some of our biggest 
markets impacted the aggregate measure and the threshold target was  
not met. 
In our Growth Markets, share was up by 0.1 per cent against a maximum 
target of 0.6 per cent.  20 2
Achievement of bonus for 2014  100 69
1 Subject to an EPS underpin which was exceeded in all cases.  
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed. Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to claw back 
during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned. Claw back may be applied in the event of gross 
misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise  
have been paid. 
Share Matching Scheme 
SMS awards were made to the Chief Executive and Corporate Affairs Director in February 2012 which will vest in February 2015 based on  
an EPS performance condition measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2014 as set out below.  
 Performance target 
Actual 
performance
Threshold  
vesting  
of award 
Maximum 
level of 
vesting 
Actual 
percentage 
vesting
Adjusted EPS 
3% – 6% average annual growth over  
UK inflation 0% 50% 100% 0
Long Term Incentive Plan 
LTIP awards were made to the Chief Executive and Corporate Affairs Director in November 2011 which will vest in November 2014 based on 
performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.  
 Performance target 
Actual 
performance
Threshold  
vesting  
of award 
Maximum 
percentage 
of award
Actual 
percentage 
of award
Adjusted EPS 3% – 10% average annual growth over  
UK inflation 0% 6.25 50 0
TSR against comparator group
1
 Threshold exceeds bottom 6 companies 
Maximum exceeds bottom 9 companies 
3 companies 
exceeded 7.5 25 0
TSR against FTSE 100 Threshold exceeds 50% of companies 
Maximum when 75% of companies exceeded 
50% of 
companies 
exceeded 7.5 25 7.5
Achievement of LTIP for 2014   100 7.5
1 The companies comprising the comparator group are: 
AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S 
Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc.  
Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over  
a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices. Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared  
ex dividend. The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained  
for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations. PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS 
performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.  
Sharesave Plan 
We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term 
shareholders. Annually, we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the 
Sharesave Plan. Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the 
London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation. The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to £250 per month over a period of 
three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares. In common with 
most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied. In the financial year ending 30 September 2014, no Sharesave options vested 
in respect of Executive Directors.  
Total Pension Entitlements (Audited)  
The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the Fund), which is the 
principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK. 
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund. For members who joined prior to 1 April 
2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60. New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue 
pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund. 
Robert Dyrbus stepped down from the Board on 5 November 2013 and retired from the Company on 31 December 2013. Oliver Tant joined 
the Board as an Executive Director on 1 October 2013 and is a member of the defined contribution section of the Fund (and receives benefits 
in line with the Company’s policy). 
Robert Dyrbus opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual from 2006, as a result of registering for enhanced 
protection with HMRC. Alison Cooper, Matthew Phillips and Oliver Tant have not opted out of future service accrual. 
Robert Dyrbus was in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which was in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arose 
because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two thirds of salary. 
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are also in receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension benefits were limited by  
the effect of HMRC’s earnings cap. Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past 
pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in 
excess of the Fund’s earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1/60th with a 50 per cent spouse’s 
pension, and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top 
slice of salary through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme (UURBS), Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips each receive a 
salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount. 
Oliver Tant is also in receipt of a salary supplement equal to 12 per cent of his basic salary. In addition, under the rules of the defined 
contribution section of the Fund, Oliver Tant has opted to limit total contributions (Member and Company) to the Fund to a level which should 
not result in him incurring an Annual Allowance charge. As a result, any additional Company contribution which would have been due to be 
paid to the Fund, had Oliver Tant not opted to cap contributions, is paid to him as a salary supplement and is included in the figures in the 
table below. 
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are 
in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employer’s national insurance contributions. The supplements are non-compensatory and 
non-pensionable. 
Robert Dyrbus started to draw his pension on 13 November 2012, as is permitted under the Fund rules. The accrued pension figure at  
30 September 2014 and the value of total pension benefits at 30 September 2014 represent the benefits accrued as at 13 November 2012 
and are consistent with those disclosed at 30 September 2013. Between 13 November 2012 and the date when he left the Company,  
Robert Dyrbus was a “Flexible Benefits” member of the Fund. However, no additional pension was accrued over this period. 
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Fund’s scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2012/13 tax year. His accrued 
pension was reduced by £4,538.19 a year to offset this tax payment. This reduction to pension is reflected in the above accrued pension 
figure as at 30 September 2014 (it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2014). 
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) and gives details for each Executive Director of: 
– the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he/she had left service at the year end (any potential UURBS entitlement 
is included); 
– the normal retirement ages; 
– the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations; 
– the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Director’s contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in 
accordance with the Regulations; and 
– any payments in lieu of retirement benefits. 
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited)  
£’000 
Age at 
30/09/2014 
Pensionable 
service at 
30/09/2014
Accrued pension  
Single Figure numbers 
 
Extra information to be  
disclosed under 2013 Directors’ 
Remuneration Regulations 
Payment 
in lieu of 
retirement 
benefits 
(i.e. pension 
supplement) 
£’000
Value x 20 
over year (net 
of director’s 
contributions) 
£’000
Total 
pension 
benefits 
£’000 
Normal 
retirement 
age 
Value x 20 
at start 
of year 
£’000
Value x 20 
at end 
of year 
£’000 01/10/2013 30/9/2014
Alison Cooper 48 15 152 168 86 207 293  60 3,040 3,360
Robert Dyrbus
1 
61 N/A 331 331 53 nil 53  60 6,620 6,620
Matthew Phillips 43 14 82 90 28 106 134  60 1,640 1,800
Oliver Tant
2,3
 N/A N/AN/AN/AN/AN/AN/A  N/A N/AN/A
1 Retired as a Director on 5 November 2013. Therefore, figures relate to the period between 1 October 2013 and 5 November 2013. 
2 Appointed as a Director on 1 October 2013. 
3 Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund. He received an employer pension contribution into the defined 
contribution section of £66,000 (made up of £26,000 Company contribution plus £40,000 in respect of a salary sacrifice by Mr Tant in lieu of his personal contribution). 
In addition a salary supplement of £69,000, representing 12 per cent of Mr Tant's basic salary, was paid to him together with an additional supplement of £54,500  
in lieu of Company pension contributions which were not made to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in order to maintain Mr Tant's total contributions within the  
Annual Allowance for pensions savings. 
Payment for Director Retiring (Audited) 
Robert Dyrbus stepped down from the Board on 5 November 2013 and retired from the Company on 31 December 2013. In accordance 
with the policy in force at the date of his retirement, Robert Dyrbus’ bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year, as detailed in the single total 
figure of remuneration table, was paid on 16 December 2013. His bonus in respect of the proportion of the 2014 financial year prior to his 
retirement will, subject to satisfaction of the appropriate performance conditions, be paid on 16 December 2014.  
In accordance with our policy at the time the awards were granted, vesting of his outstanding SMS and LTIP awards was based on 
performance measured to 30 September 2013 and pro-rated for time served to his date of retirement.  
Iain Napier, Berge Setrakian and Susan Murray also retired from the Board during the 2014 financial year and were only paid to the date of 
their retirement as detailed in the single total figure of remuneration table and received no compensation etc for loss of office.  
Recruitment of New Executive Director 
Oliver Tant joined the Board as an Executive Director on 1 October 2013 and succeeded Robert Dyrbus as Chief Financial Officer on  
5 November 2013. He joined the Board on a salary of £575,000, a maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of salary with any payment 
above 100 per cent of salary deferred in shares for three years, the opportunity to participate in the SMS, an LTIP award of 150 per cent of 
salary, and a defined contribution pension of 26 per cent of salary. As with previous Executive Director appointments, his salary was set below 
the market and some way below that of his predecessor. Subject to continued strong performance and reflecting his increasing experience, 
the Committee will be increasing his salary towards market levels over time. Notwithstanding that this may result in future percentage salary 
increases being above Company and market norms, the Committee strongly believes this approach is in the best interests of both the 
Company and its shareholders. 
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees 
Chief Executive All Employees
1
 
to  
30 September 
2014 
Percentage 
change 
(2014 vs 2013) 
Percentage 
change 
(2014 vs 2013)
Salary £920,000 0 1.5
Benefits £16,000 0 0
Bonus £1,269,600 103 57
1 Based on members of our Corporate Management Group. 
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay 
The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus  
share buybacks. 
£ million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013
Percentage 
change 
Overall expenditure on pay
1
 902 1,004 -10.2 
Dividend paid in the year 1,149 1,065 +7.9
Share buyback  341 500 -31.8
1 Excludes employers’ social security costs. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Share Interests and Incentives (Audited)  
All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Company’s shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess  
of their requirement or being within five years of appointment. Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 
 
Shares held Options held 
Shareholding 
required  
(% salary) 
Current 
shareholding 
(% salary)
1
Requirement 
met
2
Owned 
outright 
Vested but 
subject to 
holding 
period
Unvested 
and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Unvested 
and subject 
to continued 
employment
Vested 
but not 
exercised
Executive Directors   
Alison Cooper 161,708 403 325,150 440 – 300 468 Yes
Oliver Tant 829 – 36,209 441 – 300 4 In role for 
less than 
five years
Matthew Phillips 43,259 – 94,873 459 – 300 265 In role for 
less than 
five years 
Non-Executive Directors   
Mark Williamson 8,241 – – – – – – N/A
Ken Burnett 2,591 – – – – – – N/A
David Haines 647 – – – – – – N/A
Michael Herlihy 4,624 – – – – – – N/A
Susan Murray 3,473 – – – – – – N/A
Karen Witts 131 – – – – – – N/A
Malcolm Wyman 3,559 – – – – – – N/A
1 Based on a share price of £26.64 being the closing price on 30 September 2014. 
2 Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares 
which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment. 
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year (Audited) 
Awards were made in the financial year ending 30 September 2014 under both the SMS and LTIP. Detail of these awards is provided below.  
Share Matching Scheme 
Executive Directors were provided the opportunity in February 2014 to invest in the SMS. The resulting SMS awards granted and the 
associated performance conditions are set out below.  
 
Number  
of shares Face value
1
 
Amount of 
eligible bonus
Threshold 
vesting End of performance period Performance conditions
2
Alison Cooper 40,000 £920,000 100% 50% 30 September 2016 50% – 3 year adjusted EPS growth
50% – 3 year net revenue growth
Matthew Phillips 16,076 £369,748 100% 50% 30 September 2016 50% – 3 year adjusted EPS growth
50% – 3 year net revenue growth
1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant (17 February 2014) being £23.00 per share. 
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.  
Note: Oliver Tant was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013, received no eligible bonus and was, therefore, not eligible to participate. 
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth Element 
Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 3% per annum nil
3% per annum 25%
3% to 7% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
7% per annum or higher 100%
In order to ensure that net revenue growth is not overly incentivised at the expense of profitability, an EPS underpin applies in respect of the 
net revenue growth element for the Executive Directors. This requires a minimum level of adjusted EPS growth to be achieved in order for any 
awards under the net revenue growth element to vest (the EPS underpin). 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Performance Criterion – EPS Element 
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 5% per annum nil
5% per annum 25%
5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
10% per annum or higher 100%
In order to ensure that adjusted EPS growth is not achieved without due regard to the capital required to achieve such growth, an underpin 
based on Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) will apply in respect of the EPS element for the Executive Directors. ROIC is a measure of 
profitability versus the Company’s total utilised capital including goodwill and so is particularly useful to incentivise an appropriate approach 
towards acquisitions. The ROIC measure excludes the effect on goodwill and acquired intangibles of exchange rate movements and changes 
from amortisation and impairment. The ROIC underpin will require that a minimum level of ROIC will have to be achieved in order for any 
awards under the EPS growth element to vest (the ROIC underpin). 
Under the rules of the SMS, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding 
awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria. 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
In line with the policy then in effect, Executive Directors were granted LTIP awards in November 2013. The resulting number of LTIP shares 
and the associated performance conditions are set out below.  
 
Number of nil 
cost options Face value
1
 
Amount of 
base salary End of performance period
Threshold 
vesting
Weighting  
(of award) Performance conditions
2
Alison Cooper 77,246 £1,840,000 200% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke 
comparator group 
25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth
25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth 
Oliver Tant 36,209 £862,500 150% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke 
comparator group 
25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth
25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth 
Matthew 
Phillips 
22,827 £543,750 125% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke 
comparator group 
25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth
25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth 
1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant (6 November 2013) being £23.82 per share. 
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below. 
Performance Criterion – TSR Element 
The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer 
goods sector and is applied to 50 per cent of the LTIP. 
The companies within the Comparator Group are currently: 
Anheuser-Busch  
InBev NV 
Altria Group Inc Associated British  
Foods PLC 
AstraZeneca PLC British American  
Tobacco PLC 
Burberry Group PLC BT Group PLC Capita PLC Carlsberg A/S Carnival PLC 
Compass Group PLC Diageo PLC Experian Finance PLC GlaxoSmithkline PLC Heineken NV 
International Consolidated 
Airlines Group SA 
InterContinental Hotels  
Group PLC 
ITV PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Kingfisher PLC 
Lorillard Inc Marks & Spencer  
Group PLC 
Next PLC Pearson PLC Philip Morris  
International Inc 
Pernod Ricard SA Reckitt Benckiser  
Group PLC 
Reed Elsevier PLC Rexam PLC Reynolds American Inc 
Rolls-Royce PLC SAB Miller PLC J Sainsbury PLC Smith & Nephew PLC Shire PLC 
Tate & Lyle PLC Tesco PLC Unilever PLC Vodafone Group PLC Whitbread PLC 
WM Morrison Supermarkets PLC    
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: 
Relative TSR performance Shares vesting (as percentage of element)
Below median of peer group nil
At median of peer group 25%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
Above upper quartile 100%
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth Element 
This criterion is used for 25 per cent of the LTIP award. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule detailed 
for the SMS above. 
Performance Criterion – EPS Element 
This criterion is used for 25 per cent of the LTIP award. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule detailed 
for the SMS above. 
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding 
awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria. 
Remuneration Decisions Taken in 2013/14 
Salary  
Each year the Committee sets base salaries for the next financial year after consideration of individual and Company performance and market 
data for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Company’s size, sector and global reach. Consideration is  
given to the effect an amendment to an individual’s base salary would have on his or her total remuneration package. Base salary is the  
only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings. 
This year’s review is intended to bring our executives’ salaries closer to the Committee’s intended positioning and follows the approaches 
previously outlined to shareholders. As communicated on their appointment, both Alison Cooper’s and Oliver Tant’s salaries were set 
significantly below the market levels and their predecessors’ with the intention to increase them over time and dependent on performance.  
For Alison Cooper we followed this approach in 2011 and 2012 but a salary freeze in 2013 means that after four years her salary remains 
below her predecessor. The Remuneration Committee believes that it is right to continue to correct this. Based on Oliver Tant’s performance 
in his first year the Committee increased his salary to move him closer to his peers with the intention that a further increase next year, subject 
to his continued strong performance, would close the gap. Matthew Phillips has held the role of Corporate Affairs Director for two years. It is 
the view of the Committee that his current salary does not appropriately reflect the true breadth or contribution of either the role or the 
individual and the Committee, therefore, determined to increase his salary to reflect performance. 
Salary  
2013/14 
Salary 
2014/15
Percentage
Change
Alison Cooper £920,000 £965,000 4.9
Oliver Tant £575,000 £630,000 9.6
Matthew Phillips £435,000 £455,000 4.6 
Annual Bonus  
Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance. We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have  
a major element of Executive Directors’ remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Group’s annual objectives and enhancing 
performance against key financial and non-financial targets.  
Following a review of the remuneration policy, the Committee is recommending to shareholders the following amendments to the maximum  
bonus potentials: 
 
Proposed 
maximum 
percentage 
of salary
Current 
maximum 
percentage 
of salary
Alison Cooper 200 200
Oliver Tant 200 150
Matthew Phillips 175 125
Half of any bonus paid will be in the form of shares deferred for a three-year period; the remaining half will be paid in cash. 
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below. 
 Performance target 
Maximum 
of bonus
Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 35%
Cash conversion Commercially confidential 25%
Volume growth in Growth Brands Outperformance of market growth 15%
Non-financial Market share targets 15%
Individual objectives  Commercially confidential 10%
At this point, the above targets are considered commercially confidential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be 
provided retrospectively in the 2015 Annual Report. The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be confidential 
but will review this on a year-by-year basis. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Share Plan Awards 
It is intended that, subject to shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, there will be no further awards to Executive Directors 
under the SMS with the historic award levels being consolidated into the Group’s LTIP. The Committee is recommending the following 
maximum LTIP awards:  
 
Proposed 
maximum 
opportunity – 
percentage 
of salary
Current 
maximum 
opportunity – 
percentage 
of salary
1
Alison Cooper 350 300
Oliver Tant 250 250
Matthew Phillips 210 210
1 Includes the previous award level under the SMS. 
To allow for the changes to be considered by shareholders it is intended that the award which would normally have been granted in 
November 2014 will be delayed and granted in January or February 2015. Subject to shareholder approval of the revised policy these  
awards will be at the revised maximum levels.  
The awards will be subject to performance conditions as summarised below. 
Performance conditions 
Weighting 
in LTIP
Adjusted EPS growth 50%
TSR 20%
Net revenue growth 30%
When setting the performance criteria, the Committee takes account of the Group’s long-term plans and analysts’ forecasts. For both the 
adjusted EPS and net revenue targets, the performance criteria will use growth in absolute terms rather than relative to inflation and apply 
them to a three-year performance period.  
Performance Criterion – EPS Element 
This criterion will be used for 50 per cent of the LTIP awards. Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting 
schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis. The proposed vesting schedule for the awards to be granted in January or February 
2015 is set out below: 
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 3% per annum nil
3% per annum 25%
3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
8% per annum or higher 100%
Performance Criterion – TSR Element 
The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including more than 40 companies across  
a broadly defined consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP. 
The companies within the comparator group are currently: 
Anheuser-Busch  
InBev NV 
Altria Group Inc Associated British  
Foods PLC 
AstraZeneca PLC British American  
Tobacco PLC 
Burberry Group PLC BT Group PLC Capita PLC Carlsberg A/S Carnival PLC 
Compass Group PLC Diageo PLC Experian Finance PLC GlaxoSmithkline PLC Heineken NV 
International Consolidated 
Airlines Group SA 
InterContinental Hotels  
Group PLC 
ITV PLC Japan Tobacco Inc Kingfisher PLC 
Lorillard Inc Marks & Spencer  
Group PLC 
Next PLC Pearson PLC Philip Morris  
International Inc 
Pernod Ricard SA Reckitt Benckiser  
Group PLC 
Reed Elsevier PLC Rexam PLC Reynolds American Inc 
Rolls-Royce PLC SAB Miller PLC J Sainsbury PLC Smith & Nephew PLC Shire PLC 
Tate & Lyle PLC Tesco PLC Unilever PLC Vodafone Group PLC Whitbread PLC 
WM Morrison Supermarkets PLC    
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: 
Relative TSR performance Shares vesting (as percentage of element)
Below median of peer group nil
At median of peer group 25%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
Above upper quartile 100%
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth Element 
This criterion will be used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting  
schedule below: 
Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 1% per annum nil
1% per annum 25%
1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
4% per annum or higher 100%
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding 
awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria. 
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM  
At the 2014 AGM a small number of shareholders expressed concerns with various aspects of our remuneration policy. These concerns 
included the use of two long-term plans (i.e. the SMS and LTIP) and the potential, in limited circumstances, to make awards in excess of the 
Group’s normal policy in order to recruit the best candidate. Prior to the AGM and following dialogue with our major shareholders and their 
representative bodies, the Committee issued a clarificatory statement on the Company’s website in respect of Executive Director recruitment  
in December 2013. 
At the AGM held in 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows: 
Resolution 
Votes for 
including 
discretionary 
votes 
Percentage 
for Votes against
Percentage 
against
Total votes  
cast excluding 
votes withheld Votes withheld
Total votes 
cast including 
votes withheld
Directors’ Remuneration Report 694,645,923 92.61 55,397,807 7.39 750,043,730 11,576,464 761,620,194
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 664,057,447  88.04 90,242,108 11.96 754,299,555 7,320,638 761,620,193
Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law. 
Advice Provided to the Committee 
New Bridge Street (NBS) is retained, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only 
material, external adviser. NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate 
governance best practice. NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and 
reporting regulations to keep Committee members up to date with new developments and evolving best practice. 
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to 
ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence. NBS’ parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other 
human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group. Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of 
NBS’ advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group does not impact on NBS’ independence. 
During the year, NBS was paid fees of £292,856. 
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: 
– Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return (TSR) calculations and provided advice on all TSR-related matters. During the year,  
it was paid fees of £19,500. Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group; 
– Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required. It was not used for remuneration-related 
advice during the financial year. Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group; 
– Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Group’s employee share plans;  
– PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), our Auditors, performs agreed upon procedures on earnings per share (EPS) calculations used in 
relation to our employee share plans’ performance criteria. During the financial year, PwC was paid £1,750 in respect of services to the 
Committee; and 
– Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our Remuneration Policy for executives. During the year,  
it was paid fees of £52,255 for these services. Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group. 
All of these advisers were appointed by the Committee, which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way 
compromises their independence. They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Other Information 
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2014, being the last trading day of the financial year, was £26.64 
and the range of the middle market price during the year was £21.74 to £27.74. 
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at our registered office. 
Award Dates 
Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle. 
Review of Past Performance  
The chart below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the  
FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2014. We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most 
appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a six-year period. 
 
Change in Chief Executive Remuneration 
 
2014  
Alison Cooper 
2013 
Alison Cooper
2012 
Alison Cooper
1
2011 
Alison Cooper
1
2010  
Alison Cooper
1
 
2010 
Gareth Davis
2,3
2009 
Gareth Davis
Total remuneration £’000 2,686 2,011 2,793 2,737 1,347 5,453 5,099
Annual Bonus as a percentage  
of maximum 69 34 51.2 33.1 84.7 84.7 85.2
Shares vesting as a percentage  
of maximum 5.8 nil 58.0 71.6 80.8 46.93 74.5
1 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive. 
2 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement. 
3 Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement. 
Operating Executive (excluding Executive Directors)  
£’000 2014 2013
Base salary 2,143 2,161
Benefits  160 190
Pension salary supplement  218 152
Bonus 1,291 716
LTIP annual vesting
1
 90 nil
SMS annual vesting
2
 nil nil
 3,902 3,219
1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise. 
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting. 
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in 
accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was £11,073,194 (2013: £8,954,612).  
  
100
125
150
175
200
2008 2010 2009 2011 2012 2013 2014
Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100
Total Return Indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Key Management* Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2014 (Audited)  
£’000 2014 2013
Short-term employee benefits  9,575 7,431
Post-employment benefits 1,186 1,050
Other long-term benefits  – –
Termination benefits – –
Share-based payment (in accordance with IAS 24) 833 (2,140)
 11,594 6,341
The credit in 2013 is principally due to the non-achievement during the year of performance conditions which were previously expected to  
be achieved. 
* Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary. 
Employee Benefit Trusts 
Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares 
held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust (the 
Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust (the 2001 Trust) (together the Employee Benefit Trusts). 
As at 30 September 2014, we held 78,909,137 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our 
employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.  
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares. 
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: 
 
Balance at 
01/10/2013
Acquired 
during year
Distributed 
during year
Balance at 
30/09/2014 
Ordinary shares 
under award at 
30/09/2013
Surplus/
(shortfall)
Executive Trust 718,756 nil (19,862) 698,894 740,632 (41,738)
2001 Trust 2,542,675 2,000,000 (1,084,456) 3,458,219 4,315,056 (856,837)
Share Plan Flow Rates 
The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options  
and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional 
restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans. Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Company’s issued share 
capital (including shares held in treasury) is subject to options and awards under the Group’s executive and all employee share plans.  
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative number of shares under option and awards granted pursuant to all of the Company’s employee 
share plans totals 3.6 per cent of its issued share capital. Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged  
0.3 per cent of issued share capital (including shares held in treasury). 
Summary of Options and Awards Granted 
Limit on awards 
Cumulative options and awards granted 
as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
Options and awards granted during the year 
as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2
5% in 5 years 0.9 0.2
5% in 10 years (executive plans) 1.3 0.1
For the Board 
 
David Haines 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
4 November 2014  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Group Financial Statements 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of  
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 66
Consolidated Income Statement 72
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 73
Consolidated Balance Sheet 74
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 75
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76
Notes to the Financial Statements 
1 Accounting Policies 77
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 82
3 Segment Information 83
4 Profit Before Taxation 85
5 Restructuring Costs 85
6 Directors and Employees 86
7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to  
Adjusted Net Finance Costs 86
8 Taxation 87
9 Dividends 88
10 Earnings Per Share 88
11 Intangible Assets 89
12 Property, Plant and Equipment 91
13 Joint Ventures 92
14 Inventories 93
15 Trade and Other Receivables 94
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 94
17 Trade and Other Payables 94
18 Borrowings 95
19 Financial Risk Factors 96
20 Derivative Financial Instruments 101
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 104
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 105
23 Provisions 109
24 Share Capital 110
25 Share Schemes 110
26 Treasury Shares 112
27 Commitments 112
28 Legal Proceedings 112
29 Acquisitions 113
30 Net Debt 113
31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 114
32 Changes in Non-controlling Interests 114
Parent Company Financial Statements 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of  
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 115
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 116
Notes to the Financial Statements of  
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  117
Principal Undertakings 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES – CONTENTS Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
Report on the Group Financial Statements 
Our Opinion 
In our opinion, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s group financial statements (the ‘financial statements’): 
– Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
– Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union; 
and 
– Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What We Have Audited 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s financial statements comprise: 
– The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2014; 
– The Consolidated Income Statement for the year then ended; 
– The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended; 
– The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; 
– The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended; and 
– The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts (“Annual Report”), rather than in the notes  
to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. 
Our Audit Approach 
Overview 
 
– Overall group materiality: £110 million which represents 4.4 per cent of adjusted group 
profit before taxation. 
– Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial 
statements we selected 18 reporting entities which represent the principal business units. 
– We conducted full scope audit work at these 18 reporting entities, which included 
significant operations based in the UK, Germany, Spain, USA, Morocco, Australia,  
France and six other locations. 
– We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia and Ukraine based on our 
assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at those business units.
– In addition certain central reporting entities and group functions, including those covering 
treasury, taxation and pensions, and the Parent Company were subject to a full  
scope audit. 
– The full scope reporting entities and group functions where we performed audit work 
accounted for approximately 75 per cent of group revenues and in excess of 90 per cent 
of both group profit before taxation and adjusted group profit before taxation. 
– As part of the supervision process site visits and video conferences were conducted. 
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of 
particular focus for our work which are listed below. 
– Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment. 
– Risk of fraud in revenue recognition focused on revenue sold into distribution channels at 
year end. 
– Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks. 
– Accounting for restructuring provisions. 
  
Materiality 
Audit scope 
Areas of 
focus  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
The Scope of Our Audit and Our Areas of Focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK and Ireland)’). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we 
looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management 
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Our observations on the areas below were based on the evidence obtained to support our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment 
See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 2 for judgements and estimates 
and note 11 for detailed Intangible assets disclosures. 
We focused on this area because the determination of whether or  
not certain elements of goodwill and intangible assets were impaired 
involved complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about 
the future results of the relevant parts of the business. 
At 30 September 2014 the Group had £10,568 million of goodwill 
and £5,291 million of intangible assets and reasonable headroom  
for the majority of the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs). 
We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting 
segment (£4,106 million of goodwill and intangible assets). Growth 
Markets is made up of a number of operating segments and 
individual CGUs, including the Drive Growth operating segment and 
the Premium Cigar CGU. For both of these businesses goodwill is 
separately measured and management’s assessment indicates lower 
headroom (£240 million and £170 million respectively). 
For the Drive Growth operating segment we focused on the valuation 
of the Russian business, which is the most material CGU included in 
the segment. In particular we considered the key expectation that the 
Russian business will achieve a significant profit improvement (see 
note 11) in the short term. 
For the Premium Cigar CGU the valuation is dependent on 
continuing profit growth in emerging markets and operational 
improvements (see note 11). As such, we focused on the 
assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in  
these areas. 
 We challenged the Directors’ analysis around the key business 
drivers of the cash flow forecasts supporting their impairment 
assessment, being pricing, market size, and market share. We also 
evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions including 
discount rates, short-term growth and long-term growth rates and 
performed a range of sensitivities across the reporting segments.  
In particular: 
– For the Russian business, we considered the Directors’ 
expectations about the impact of the Group’s stock optimisation 
programme and the balance between the capacity for price 
increases and underlying volume declines. We also discussed  
the potential impact of duty and regulated pricing changes  
under consideration by the Russian parliament. 
– For the Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the reasonableness of 
the Directors’ forecast by challenging assumptions about growth 
strategies involving opportunities in new markets and planned 
operational improvements. 
For both Russia and Premium Cigar CGU we reached the view that 
the planned level of profit growth appears achievable, but that there 
was sufficient uncertainty to require further sensitivity analysis around 
the key assumptions.  
As a result of this we determined that the impairment assessments 
for both Drive Growth and Premium Cigar were acceptable based on 
the current business plans. However, for Drive Growth we consider 
that a deterioration of Russian economic conditions in excess of that 
reflected in the assumptions or an inability to achieve planned results 
could reasonably be expected to give rise to an impairment charge in 
the future. 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition focused on the occurrence of revenue sold into distribution channels at year end 
See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies. 
We focused on the timing of revenue recognition because of the  
risk associated with the levels of inventory sold into, and held in, 
distribution channels and the contractual terms those goods were 
sold under.  
Revenue recognition is, under normal group terms and conditions,  
not complex with accounts receivable converted to cash in a timely 
manner. Returns have historically been immaterial and our testing did 
not identify any evidence of significant levels of returns. 
There is however a risk that sales made into distribution channels 
close to a period end could be overstated. If such sales were not 
legitimate then this could result in material amounts of revenue being 
recorded in the incorrect period and could affect management’s 
incentive payments. 
 We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and whether the Group 
appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual terms 
and obligations with distributors and other customers. For certain  
key distributors we obtained details of the amount of inventory held 
by them in the channel and compared this to prior periods. We  
also used this information in our evaluation of the impact on the 
financial statements of the Group’s stock optimisation programme. 
We noted no instances of inappropriate revenue recognition arising 
in our testing. 
We evaluated contractual terms around the year end and tested 
accounts receivable balances through a combination of third party 
confirmations and subsequent remittances, with no exceptions noted 
from our testing. We evaluated evidence of the level of returns 
received after the year end and noted no material issues arising.  
We also used a combination of manual and computer assisted audit 
techniques in order to extract and test journal entries posted to 
revenue and other general ledger accounts, which did not identify 
unexplained unusual or irregular items. 
 
Area of focus   How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Tax accounting and the level of tax provision held against risks 
See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 2 for judgements and estimates 
and notes 8 and 21 for detailed taxation disclosures. 
There are a number of significant judgements involved in the 
determination of deferred tax balances, specifically in relation to the 
recognition of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation 
liabilities in certain jurisdictions where the probability of temporary 
differences reversing is uncertain.  
Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities of 
dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, this 
was an area of focus for us. 
 In the calculation of deferred taxes, we challenged management over 
the adequacy of tax loss recognition in the Netherlands and Spain. 
We also challenged whether a material deferred taxation provision 
established in an overseas business was still required. 
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements 
was reasonable based on our review of management’s assessment 
of the recoverability of tax losses and the basis for their write back of 
the deferred taxation provision. 
 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Accounting for restructuring provisions 
See note 1 to the financial statements for the Directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, note 5 for restructuring costs disclosure 
and note 23 for detailed provisions disclosures. 
The Group has a significant restructuring programme underway.  
The programme is expected to last several years and as part of  
this programme the Group announced the proposed closures of  
major factories at Nantes and Nottingham during the year.  
In 2014 the charge in the Consolidated Income Statement relating  
to this programme was £305 million and there is a total restructuring 
provision held on the Consolidated Balance Sheet of £321 million.  
The recognition of restructuring costs requires judgement to estimate 
the value and timing of net economic outflows and the extent to 
which the Group is externally committed. The presentation in the 
financial statements also requires consideration of whether the 
amounts included in the charge are exceptional in nature. 
 We assessed the completeness of the restructuring amounts 
provided for using our knowledge of the business and prior period, 
inquiries of management, examination of restructuring plans and 
through consideration of expenses that typically are connected with 
exit and disposal activities. Based on this, we did not identify any 
material omissions.  
We tested the valuation and calculations of the individual 
restructuring provisions that made up the total including  
redundancy, impairment and pension curtailment. We found  
no material exceptions in these tests. 
We considered management’s treatment of the restructuring costs 
as exceptional and agreed with their conclusion that the extensive 
scale and material cost of the project, together with the level of 
centralised group wide control and Board focus, indicated that it  
was exceptional in nature. 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
How We Tailored the Audit Scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as  
a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates.  
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics. The group financial statements are a consolidation of  
349 legal entities represented by 223 reporting entities, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and centralised functions. 
The Group’s accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group 
operates. These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol UK through 
an integrated consolidation system. In our view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, 18 of the 223 reporting entities, including 
the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other PwC network 
firms, and other firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform 
this audit work. We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia and Ukraine based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and 
the scale of operations at those business units. 
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those 
functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group 
financial statements as a whole. 
The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis. In the current year the group team engagement leader visited 
the USA, Morocco, Taiwan, Laos, Spain and Germany, as well as in-scope UK reporting locations. Video conferences were held at least once 
with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity and those undertaking specific procedures. 
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the 
head office. These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and pensions. The Parent 
Company is also subject to a full scope audit. 
Taken together, the reporting entities and group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 75 per cent of group 
revenues and in excess of 90 per cent of both group profit before tax and group adjusted profit before tax. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with 
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to 
evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall group materiality £110 million (2013: £114 million). 
How we determined it 4.4 per cent of adjusted profit before taxation. 
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this benchmark we have had regard to adjusted profit before taxation as this 
metric is presented by the Directors as reflective of the business performance and because  
in our view this is the most relevant measure of results. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million (2013:  
£10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going Concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued
Other Required Reporting 
Consistency of Other Information 
Companies Act 2006 Opinion 
In our opinion: 
– The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements: 
ISAs (UK and Ireland) Reporting 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
– Information in the Annual Report is: 
– Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
– Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or 
– Otherwise misleading. 
  
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
– The statement given by the Directors, in accordance with Provision 
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that 
they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing  
our audit. 
 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
– The section of the Annual Report, as required by Provision C.3.8 
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does  
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the  
Audit Committee. 
 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Adequacy of Information and Explanations Received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Directors’ Remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit 
Our Responsibilities and Those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
What an Audit of Financial Statements Involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:  
– Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed;  
– The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
– The overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Other Matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended  
30 September 2014 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
 
John Maitland (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Bristol  
4 November 2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September
£ million unless otherwise indicated Notes  2014 2013 
Revenue 3  26,625 28,269 
Duty and similar items  (12,928) (13,681)
Other cost of sales  (8,422) (9,059)
Cost of sales  (21,350) (22,740)
Gross profit  5,275 5,529 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs  (1,946) (2,053)
Acquisition costs 29  (13) – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11  (644) (372)
Impairment of acquired intangibles 11  – (580)
Restructuring costs 5  (305) (270)
Other expenses  (303) (296)
Administrative and other expenses  (1,265) (1,518)
Operating profit 3  2,064 1,958 
Investment income 7  517 724 
Finance costs 7  (1,061) (1,463)
Net finance costs 7  (544) (739)
Profit before taxation 4  1,520 1,219 
Taxation 8  (69) (290)
Profit for the year  1,451 929 
Attributable to:  
Owners of the parent  1,422 905 
Non-controlling interests  29 24 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)  
– Basic 10  148.5 92.9 
– Diluted 10  148.1 92.7 
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IAS 19 (Revised) – see note 1. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 September
£ million Notes  2014 2013 
Profit for the year  1,451 929 
Other comprehensive income  
Exchange movements  (581) 164 
Current tax on exchange movements  – 40 
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss  (581) 204 
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 22  45 43 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on retirement benefits 21  (1) (42)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss  44 1 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax  (537) 205 
Total comprehensive income for the year  914 1,134 
  
Attributable to:   
Owners of the parent  900 1,108 
Non-controlling interests  14 26 
Total comprehensive income for the year  914 1,134 
Reconciliation from Operating Profit to Adjusted Operating Profit 
£ million Notes  2014 2013 
Operating profit  2,064 1,958 
Acquisition costs 29  13 – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11  644 372 
Impairment of acquired intangibles 11  – 580 
Restructuring costs 5  305 270 
Adjusted operating profit  3,026 3,180 
Reconciliation from Net Finance Costs to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 
£ million Notes  2014 2013 
Net finance costs  (544) (739)
Net fair value and exchange (gains)/losses on financial instruments 7  (12) 156 
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 7  40 51 
Adjusted net finance costs  (516) (532) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
for the year ended 30 September
£ million Notes  2014 2013 
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 11  15,859 17,382 
Property, plant and equipment 12  1,862 2,080 
Investments in associates  17 17 
Retirement benefit assets 22  44 5 
Trade and other receivables 15  75 85 
Derivative financial instruments 20  605 312 
Deferred tax assets 21  241 153 
  18,703 20,034 
Current assets  
Inventories 14  2,935 3,296 
Trade and other receivables 15  2,806 2,966 
Current tax assets 8  96 72 
Cash and cash equivalents 16  1,431 1,809 
Derivative financial instruments 20  38 245 
  7,306 8,388 
Total assets  26,009 28,422 
Current liabilities  
Borrowings 18  (468) (3,276)
Derivative financial instruments 20  (46) (219)
Trade and other payables 17  (6,990) (7,354)
Current tax liabilities 8  (133) (141)
Provisions 23  (176) (92)
  (7,813) (11,082)
Non-current liabilities  
Borrowings 18  (9,464) (7,858)
Derivative financial instruments 20  (645) (531)
Trade and other payables 17  (21) (17)
Deferred tax liabilities 21  (1,453) (1,820)
Retirement benefit liabilities 22  (824) (1,055)
Provisions 23  (312) (407)
  (12,719) (11,688)
Total liabilities  (20,532) (22,770)
Net assets  5,477 5,652 
Equity  
Share capital 24  104 107 
Share premium and capital redemption  5,836 5,833 
Retained earnings  (756) (791)
Exchange translation reserve  (119) 447 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent  5,065 5,596 
Non-controlling interests 32  412 56 
Total equity  5,477 5,652 
The financial statements on pages 72 to 114 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 November 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
   
Mark Williamson   Oliver Tant 
Chairman    Director Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 September
£ million 
Share 
capital
Share
premium 
and capital
redemption
Retained
earnings
Exchange 
translation 
reserve
Equity 
attributable  
to owners of 
the parent 
Non- 
controlling 
interests
Total 
equity
At 1 October 2013 107 5,833 (791) 447 5,596  56 5,652 
Profit for the year – – 1,422 – 1,422  29 1,451 
Exchange movements – – – (566) (566) (15) (581)
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – 45 – 45  – 45 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on 
retirement benefits – – (1) – (1) – (1)
Other comprehensive income – – 44 (566) (522) (15) (537)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,466 (566) 900  14 914 
Transactions with owners  
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise  
of share schemes – – 6 – 6  – 6 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share  
Ownership Trusts – – (2) – (2) – (2)
Costs of employees’ services compensated  
by share schemes – – 20 – 20  – 20 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 3 – 3  – 3 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares  – – (341) – (341) (341)
Cancellation of own shares held as treasury shares (3) 3 – – –  – – 
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (363) – (363) 363 – 
Proceeds, net of fees, from the disposal of  
Logista IPO (see note 32) – – 395 – 395  – 395 
Dividends paid – – (1,149) – (1,149) (21) (1,170)
At 30 September 2014 104 5,836 (756) (119) 5,065  412 5,477 
  
At 1 October 2012 107 5,833 (150) 245 6,035  49 6,084 
Profit for the year – – 905 – 905  24 929 
Exchange movements – – – 162 162  2 164 
Current tax on exchange movements – – – 40 40  – 40 
Net actuarial gains on retirement benefits – – 43 – 43  – 43 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on 
retirement benefits – – (42) – (42) – (42)
Other comprehensive income – – 1 202 203  2 205 
Total comprehensive income – – 906 202 1,108  26 1,134 
Transactions with owners  
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise  
of share schemes – – 6 – 6  – 6 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share  
Ownership Trusts – – (4) – (4) – (4)
Costs of employees’ services compensated  
by share schemes – – 14 – 14  – 14 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 2 – 2  – 2 
Increase in own shares held as treasury shares – – (500) – (500) – (500)
Dividends paid – – (1,065) – (1,065) (19) (1,084)
At 30 September 2013 107 5,833 (791) 447 5,596  56 5,652 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September
£ million 2014 2013 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Operating profit 2,064 1,958 
Share of post-tax (profit)/loss of associates (3) 1 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 920 1,215 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 (5)
Loss on disposal of software 3 1 
Loss on disposal of businesses – 13 
Post-employment benefits (156) (34)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes 22 18 
Movement in provisions 19 (47)
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 2,875 3,120 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 119 (93)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (33) 151 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 44 (140)
Movement in working capital 130 (82)
Taxation paid (457) (686)
Net cash flows generated by operating activities 2,548 2,352 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Interest received 10 9 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (256) (269)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 59 14 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (37) (27)
Internally generated intellectual property rights (4) (9)
Purchase of intangible assets – intellectual property rights  (46) – 
Purchases of businesses – net of cash acquired – (35)
Proceeds from sale of businesses – net of cash disposed – 1 
Net cash used in investing activities (274) (316)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Interest paid (550) (522)
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise of share schemes 6 6 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (2) (6)
Increase in borrowings 2,324 4,884 
Repayment of borrowings (3,200) (3,443)
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments (121) (28)
Finance lease payments – (20)
Purchase of treasury shares (341) (500)
Proceeds from sale of shares in a subsidiary to non-controlling interests (net of fees) (see note 32) 395 – 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (21) (19)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (1,149) (1,065)
Net cash used in financing activities (2,659) (713)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (385) 1,323 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 1,809 631 
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 7 (145)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,431 1,809 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting Policies 
Basis of Preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act  
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical  
cost convention except where fair value measurement is required 
under IFRS as described below in the accounting policies on  
financial instruments. 
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period and  
of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date. 
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in note 2 Critical 
Accounting Estimates and Judgements. Such estimates and 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and 
constitute management’s best judgement at the date of the financial 
statements. In the future, actual experience may deviate from  
these estimates and assumptions. This could affect future financial 
statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified,  
as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change. 
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set  
out below. 
Basis of Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its subsidiary 
undertakings. 
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control  
exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential 
voting rights. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included  
in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. Where necessary, 
accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
purchase of subsidiaries. The excess of the value transferred to the 
seller in return for control of the acquired business together with the 
fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over 
the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets is 
recorded as goodwill.  
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.  
Joint Ventures 
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group and third  
parties jointly control. The financial statements of joint ventures are 
consolidated using the proportionate method, with the Group’s share 
of assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet 
classified according to their nature. In the same way, the Group’s 
share of income and expenses is presented in the consolidated 
income statement in accordance with their function. 
Foreign Currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each Group company 
are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the company operates (the functional 
currency). 
The income and cash flow statements of Group companies using 
non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling (the 
Group’s presentational currency) at average rates of exchange in 
each period. Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated 
at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The differences 
between retained profits and losses translated at average and  
closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on  
the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year. 
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional 
currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date  
of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at 
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement with exchange differences arising on 
trading transactions being reported in operating profit, and those 
arising on financing transactions being reported in net finance costs 
unless as a result of net investment hedging they are reported in 
other comprehensive income. 
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external 
borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of  
Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after 
deducting permanent intragroup loans. Gains or losses on these 
hedges that are regarded as highly effective are transferred to  
other comprehensive income, where they offset gains or losses  
on translation of the net investments that are recorded in equity,  
in the exchange translation reserve. 
Revenue Recognition 
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced value  
for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and 
discounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when  
a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the 
customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related 
receivables is reasonably assured. Sales of services, which include 
fees for distributing certain third party products, are recognised in  
the accounting period in which the services are rendered.  
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced value  
for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and 
discounts. The Logistics business only recognises commission 
revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a 
commission agent. Distribution and marketing commissions are 
included in revenue. Revenue is recognised on products on 
consignment when these are sold by the consignee. 
Duty and Similar Items 
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the 
characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production tax, 
duty is included in revenue and in cost of sales in the consolidated 
income statement. Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from 
revenue and cost of sales. Payments due in the United States of 
America under the Master Settlement Agreement are considered  
to be levies having the characteristics of duty and are treated as  
a production tax.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
1 Accounting Policies continued 
Taxes 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for  
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect  
of previous years.  
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns 
where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities only where it is considered more likely than not 
that an amount will be paid or received. This test is applied to each 
individual uncertain position which is then measured on the single 
most likely outcome. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the 
carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the tax base, except if it arises from initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that  
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and  
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the assets can be realised. Deferred tax is determined 
using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the 
deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised. 
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except 
where it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive  
income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity. 
Dividends 
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by shareholders, whereas interim dividends 
are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid. 
Intangible Assets – Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller in 
return for control of the acquired business together with the fair  
value of any previously held equity interest in that business over  
the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets. 
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement and cannot be 
subsequently reversed. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose. 
Intangible Assets – Other 
Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the consolidated 
balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a 
business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at 
fair value. They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or 
fair value (depending on how they are acquired) less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment. 
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, intellectual 
property, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships 
and computer software. The Davidoff cigarette trademark and  
some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors  
to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established 
international brands with global potential. Trademarks with indefinite 
lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.  
With effect from 1 October 2013 we have revised the estimated lives 
over which certain brands, trademarks and supply agreements in  
the Tobacco business will be amortised. In line with our strategy  
to focus on Growth and Specialist Brands, we have reduced the 
estimated remaining useful lives for all other brands to a maximum  
of five years. Intellectual property (including trademarks), supply 
agreements (including customer relationships) and computer 
software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Intellectual property  5-30 years straight line 
Supply agreements  3-15 years straight line 
Software   3-5 years  straight line 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are shown in the consolidated 
balance sheet at historical cost or fair value (depending on how they 
are acquired), less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Costs 
incurred after initial recognition are included in the assets’ carrying 
amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with them will 
flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other property, 
plant and equipment so as to write down the initial cost of each asset 
to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: 
Buildings   up to 50 years straight line 
Plant and equipment 2-20 years straight line/ 
     reducing balance 
Fixtures and motor vehicles 2-15 years straight line 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if 
appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date. 
Financial Instruments and Hedging 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant 
instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to 
receive benefits have expired or been transferred, and the Group has 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial 
liabilities are de-recognised when the obligation is extinguished. 
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and 
receivables. Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and  
are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms  
of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value 
includes accrued interest receivable. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value 
and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued 
interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs.  
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held 
on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments. 
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the 
underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.  
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for 
trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments are initially  
recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction  
costs. Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the 
consolidated balance sheet at fair value, and include accrued interest 
receivable and payable where relevant. However, as the Group has 
decided (as permitted under IAS 39) not to cash flow or fair value 
hedge account for its derivative financial instruments, changes in fair 
values are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the 
period in which they arise unless the derivative qualifies and has been 
designated as a net investment hedging instrument in which case  
the changes in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit 
support annex documents under International Swaps and Derivatives 
Association (ISDA) agreements in respect of certain derivatives are 
net settled and are therefore netted off the carrying value of those 
derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The cost 
of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, 
direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads 
(based on normal operating capacity). Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the 
estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds 
twelve months is classified as a current asset, consistent with 
recognised industry practice. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when  
the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made. 
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced, and it is 
more likely than not that the plan will be implemented, and the 
amount required to settle any obligations arising can be reliably 
estimated. Future operating losses are not provided for. 
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an 
outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering 
the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if 
the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in 
the same class of obligations may be small. 
Retirement Benefit Schemes 
For defined benefit schemes, the amount recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet is the difference between the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date  
and the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent that they are 
demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a reduction in future 
contributions. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually  
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.  
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of 
high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency  
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.  
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees  
during the year is charged to operating profit. Past service costs are 
recognised immediately in operating profit, unless the changes to the 
pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service 
for a specified period of time. 
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual 
and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a result 
of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in 
full in the statement of comprehensive income for the period in which 
they arise. An interest charge is made in the income statement by 
applying the rate used to discount the defined benefit obligations to 
the net defined benefit liability of the schemes. 
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are recognised as an 
employee benefit expense when they are due.  
Share-Based Payments 
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment 
Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based 
employee compensation schemes. The majority of the Group’s 
schemes are equity-settled. 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting period, based 
on the number of instruments that are expected to vest. For plans 
where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder returns, the 
fair value at the date of grant reflects these conditions. Earnings per 
share vesting conditions are reflected in the estimate of awards that 
will eventually vest. For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability 
equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at its 
current fair value at each balance sheet date. Where applicable the 
Group recognises the impact of revisions to original estimates in the 
consolidated income statement, with a corresponding adjustment  
to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities for cash-
settled schemes. Fair values are measured using appropriate 
valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions  
of the awards. 
The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to shares 
arising under share-based employee compensation schemes. 
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these shares are accounted  
for as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the parent. 
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of 
any proceeds received by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
1 Accounting Policies continued 
Treasury Shares 
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury 
shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted on consolidation 
from equity attributable to owners of the parent until the shares are 
reissued or disposed of. When such shares are subsequently sold or 
reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, 
increases equity attributable to owners of the parent. When  
such shares are cancelled they are transferred to the capital 
redemption reserve. 
Use of Adjusted Measures 
Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures provide 
a useful comparison of business performance and reflect the way in 
which the business is controlled. Accordingly, adjusted measures  
of operating profit, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, 
attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, where 
applicable, acquisition costs, amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment benefits 
net financing cost, fair value and exchange gains/losses on financial 
instruments, and related taxation effects and significant one-off  
tax provision charges or credits arising from the resolution of prior 
year tax matters. Reconciliations between adjusted and reported 
operating profit are included within note 3 to the financial statements, 
adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 7, adjusted and 
reported taxation in note 8, and adjusted and reported earnings  
per share in note 10.  
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms under 
IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures 
reported by other companies.  
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are one-off 
in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not influenced 
by the day to day operations of the Group, and the movements in the 
fair value of financial instruments which are marked to market and  
not naturally offset. Adjusted net finance costs also excludes all  
post-employment benefit net finance cost since pension assets and 
liabilities and redundancy and social plan provisions do not form part 
of adjusted net debt. This allows comparison of the Group’s cost of 
debt with adjusted net debt. The adjusted measures are used by 
management to assess the Group’s financial performance and aid 
comparability of results year on year.  
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows: 
Acquisition Costs 
Adjusted measures exclude costs associated with major acquisitions 
as they do not relate to the day to day operational performance of 
the Group. 
Amortisation and Impairment of Acquired Intangibles 
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful 
economic lives where these are considered to be finite. Acquired 
intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised.  
We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation and 
impairment of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the 
deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles  
and tax deductible goodwill. The deferred tax is excluded on the 
basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the intangibles  
and goodwill. The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the 
adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group. 
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments and 
Exchange Gains and Losses on Borrowings 
IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised 
in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the 
fair value being recognised in the consolidated income statement 
unless the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under 
IFRS and the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial 
instrument as a hedge.  
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial 
and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of 
IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not 
qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, and as permitted under 
IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value 
hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments. However, 
the Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain 
borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the 
Group’s foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to 
minimise income statement volatility. 
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings from 
adjusted net finance costs. Fair value gains and losses on the interest 
element of derivative financial instruments are excluded as they  
will reverse over time or are matched in future periods by interest 
charges. Fair value gains and losses on the currency element of 
derivative financial instruments and exchange gains and losses on 
borrowings are excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains  
and losses on the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a 
separate component of other comprehensive income in accordance 
with the Group’s policy on foreign currency. 
Restructuring Costs 
Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses 
and in major rationalisation and optimisation initiatives together  
with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted  
earnings measures. These costs include the impairment of property, 
plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due to 
restructuring activity. 
Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost 
The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement 
benefit liabilities, together with the unwind of discount on 
redundancy, social plans and other long-term provisions are reported 
within net finance costs. These items together with their related tax 
effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures. 
Tax Matters 
Significant one-off tax charges or credits arising from the resolution of 
prior year tax matters (outside of changes in estimates in the normal 
course of business) are excluded from our adjusted tax charge to  
aid comparability and understanding of the Group’s performance. 
The recognition and utilisation of deferred tax assets relating to 
losses not historically generated as a result of the underlying 
business performance are excluded on the same basis.  
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management 
Net Revenue 
Net revenue comprises the Tobacco business revenue less 
associated duty and similar items less revenue from the sale of 
peripheral and non-tobacco-related products. Management 
considers this an important measure in assessing the performance  
of Tobacco operations.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management continued 
Distribution Fees 
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue less the cost of distributed products. Management considers this an important 
measure in assessing the performance of Logistics operations. 
Adjusted Net Debt 
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges. 
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations 
New standards or interpretations which came into effect for the current reporting period did not have a material impact on the net assets or 
results of the Group.  
Pensions Accounting  
Under IAS 19 (Revised), which became mandatory for the Group in its 2014 accounts, the interest charge on retirement benefit liabilities and 
the expected return on pension plan assets have been replaced by a net interest income or expense on net defined benefit assets or liabilities 
based on high quality corporate bond rates. The impact on the Group’s results and net assets is as follows: 
£ million 
Year ended 30 September 2013 
Previously 
reported  Adjustment Restated
Investment income 766  (42) 724 
Finance costs (1,463) – (1,463)
Net finance costs (697) (42) (739)
Profit before taxation 1,261  (42) 1,219 
Taxation (300) 10 (290)
Profit for the period 961  (32) 929 
EPS basic (pence) 96.2  (3.3) 92.9 
EPS diluted (pence) 96.0  (3.3) 92.7 
  
Retirement benefit assets 1  4 5 
Retirement benefit liabilities (1,055) – (1,055)
Net assets 5,648  4 5,652 
The effect in the year ended 30 September 2014 has been to reduce reported investment income by £42 million and profit for the period by 
£32 million. 
Valuation of Derivative Financial Instruments 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, which is mandatory for this financial year, has clarified the measurement criteria for derivative financial 
instruments. The impact has not had a material effect on the results or net assets of the Group. 
Joint Ventures 
IFRS 11 will become mandatory for the Group in its 2015 accounts and will require the Group to equity account for its joint ventures which  
are currently proportionately consolidated. It is not expected to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the Group. See note 13  
to the financial statements. 
Other standards and interpretations issued, but not yet effective, are not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s net assets  
or results. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and 
Judgements 
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the  
future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based  
on historical experience, and other factors, including expectations  
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under  
the circumstances. 
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates 
and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the current financial year  
are discussed below. 
Legal Proceedings and Disputes 
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments 
in the legal proceedings at each balance sheet date, considering the 
nature of the litigation, claim or assessment; the legal processes and 
potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, 
claim or assessment has been brought; the progress of the case 
(including progress after the date of the financial statements but 
before those statements are issued); the opinions or views of legal 
counsel and other advisers; experience of similar cases; and any 
decision of the Group’s management as to how it will respond to  
the litigation, claim or assessment. 
To the extent that the Group’s assessments at any time do not 
reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any 
claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, with 
a favourable or adverse impact upon the Group’s operating profit, 
financial position and liquidity. 
A summary of significant legal cases in which the Group is currently 
involved is disclosed in note 28.  
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 
Intangible assets (other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette 
trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks) and property,  
plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful 
lives which are based on management’s estimates of the period  
over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically 
reviewed for continued appropriateness. Changes to the estimates 
used can result in significant variations in the carrying value. 
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or 
depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill 
arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived assets are subject to 
impairment review. The Group’s management undertakes an 
impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. Factors considered important that could trigger an 
impairment review of property, plant and equipment and/or intangible 
assets include the following: 
– significant underperformance relative to historical or projected 
future operating results;  
– significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets 
or the strategy for the overall business; and  
– significant negative industry or economic trends.  
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the 
assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application of  
the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported in the 
financial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful 
economic lives and the carrying values of those assets. If business 
conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in  
the application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely  
that materially different amounts could be reported in the Group’s 
financial statements. Current and future levels of volatility and 
uncertainty over economic conditions are important factors in 
assessing the reasonableness of these estimates, assumptions  
and judgements.  
See notes 11 and 12 to these financial statements. 
Retirement Benefits 
The costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit retirement 
schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods 
relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions. The Group takes 
advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of 
the assumptions. It is important to note, however, that comparatively 
small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect 
on the Group’s financial statements. Details of the key assumptions 
are set out in note 22. 
Income Taxes 
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and 
significant judgement is required in determining the provision for tax. 
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate 
tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises provisions for 
tax based on estimates of the taxes that are likely to become due. 
Where the final tax outcome is different from the amounts that were 
initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax 
and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination 
is made. 
Provisions 
The Group holds provisions where appropriate in respect of 
estimated future economic outflows, principally for restructuring 
activity, which arise due to past events. Estimates are based on 
management judgement and information available at the balance 
sheet date. Actual outflows may not occur as anticipated, and 
estimates may prove to be incorrect, leading to further charges  
or releases of provisions as circumstances dictate. 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
3 Segment Information 
Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses – Tobacco and Logistics. The Tobacco business comprises the manufacture, marketing 
and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales to (but not by) the Logistics business. The Logistics business comprises 
the distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-tobacco 
products and services. The Logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated equally, and 
consequently transactions between the Tobacco and Logistics businesses are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reflecting market  
prices for comparable goods and services. 
The Tobacco business is managed based on the strategic role of groups of markets rather than their geographic proximity, with divisions 
focused on prioritising growth or returns. Returns Markets are typically mature markets where we have relatively large market shares and  
our objective is to maximise returns over the long term by growing profits while actively managing market share. Growth Markets are mainly 
large profit or volume pools where we typically have market shares below 15 per cent and where our total tobacco approach provides many 
opportunities for share and profit growth both now and in the future. 
The function of Chief Operating Decision Maker (defined in IFRS 8), which is to review performance and allocate resources, is performed by 
the Board and the Chief Executive, who are regularly provided with information on our segments. This information is used as the basis of the 
segment revenue and profit disclosures provided below. The main profit measure used by the Board and the Chief Executive is adjusted 
operating profit. Segment balance sheet information is not provided to the Board or the Chief Executive. Our reportable segments are Returns 
Markets North, Returns Markets South, Growth Markets (which includes our Cuban joint ventures and Fontem Ventures) and Logistics. 
Prevailing market characteristics such as maturity, excise structure and the breadth of the distribution networks determine the allocation  
of Returns Markets between Returns Markets North and Returns Markets South.  
The main tobacco business markets in each of the reportable segments are: 
Returns Markets North – Australia, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, Poland, United Kingdom; 
Returns Markets South – France, Spain and our African markets including Algeria, Ivory Coast, Morocco; 
Growth Markets – Iraq, Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, United States of America. 
Tobacco  
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 
Revenue 19,656 20,881 
Net revenue 6,576 7,007 
Operating profit  1,970 1,888 
Adjusted operating profit 2,850 3,003 
Adjusted operating margin % 43.3 42.9 
Logistics  
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 
Revenue 7,784 8,288 
Distribution fees 848 850 
Operating profit  84 69 
Adjusted operating profit 166 176 
Adjusted distribution margin % 19.6 20.7 
Revenue 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Total 
revenue
External 
revenue  
Total 
revenue
External 
revenue
Tobacco   
Returns Markets North 12,939 12,915   13,527 13,506 
Returns Markets South 2,824 2,080   3,051 2,222 
Growth Markets 3,893 3,846   4,303 4,253 
Total Tobacco 19,656 18,841   20,881 19,981 
Logistics 7,784 7,784   8,288 8,288 
Eliminations (815) –   (900) – 
Total Group 26,625 26,625   28,269 28,269 
Tobacco net revenue 
£ million 2014 2013 
Returns Markets North 2,801 2,929 
Returns Markets South 1,662 1,824 
Growth Markets 2,113 2,254 
Total Tobacco 6,576 7,007 
Tobacco net revenue excludes revenue from the sale of peripheral and non-tobacco related products of £152 million (2013: £193 million). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
3 Segment Information continued 
Adjusted operating profit and reconciliation to profit before tax 
£ million 2014 2013 
Tobacco 
Returns Markets North 1,511 1,543 
Returns Markets South 742 792 
Growth Markets 597 668 
Total Tobacco 2,850 3,003 
Logistics 166 176 
Eliminations 10 1 
Adjusted operating profit 3,026 3,180 
Acquisition costs – Tobacco (13) – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Tobacco (562) (288)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Logistics (82) (84)
Impairment of acquired intangibles – Tobacco – (580)
Restructuring costs – Tobacco  (305) (247)
Restructuring costs – Logistics – (23)
Operating profit 2,064 1,958 
Net finance costs (544) (739)
Profit before tax 1,520 1,219 
Other information  
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Additions to 
property, plant 
and equipment
Depreciation  
and software 
amortisation 
Additions to 
property, plant 
and equipment
Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation
Tobacco   
Returns Markets North 100 69   148 82 
Returns Markets South 54 41   28 34 
Growth Markets 86 43   70 34 
Total Tobacco 240 153   246 150 
Logistics 16 31   23 35 
Total Group 256 184   269 185 
Additional geographic analysis 
External revenue and non-current assets are presented for the UK and for individually significant countries. ITG’s products are sold in over  
160 countries. 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013 
External 
revenue
Non-current  
assets 
External 
revenue
Non-current 
assets
UK 4,750 163   5,007 182 
Germany 4,003 3,350   4,105 3,180 
Spain 2,128 1,716   1,832 2,080 
France 3,661 2,857   3,834 3,206 
USA 1,024 2,727   1,147 2,874 
Other 11,059 6,925   12,344 7,957 
Total Group 26,625 17,738   28,269 19,479 
Non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments in associates.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
4 Profit Before Taxation 
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting): 
£ million 2014 2013 
Raw materials and consumables used 1,265 1,408 
Changes in inventories of finished goods 6,938 7,438 
Operating lease charges 56 60 
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (96) 47 
Write down of inventories 26 55 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 (5)
Impairment of trade receivables 2 (1)
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates 
£ million 2014 2013 
Audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 1.0 1.0 
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 3.7 3.6 
Audit related assurance services  0.1 0.1 
Other assurance services – – 
 4.8 4.7 
Tax advisory services 0.7 0.8 
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.1 
Other services 2.1 0.2 
 7.8 5.8 
5 Restructuring Costs 
£ million 2014 2013 
Employment related  149 107 
Asset impairments 71 83 
Other charges 85 80 
 305 270 
The net charge for the year of £305 million (2013: £270 million) included £9 million (2013: £24 million) of unused provisions reversed during  
the year, £193 million (2013: £163 million) of additional restructuring provisions and £71 million (2013: £83 million) impairment of tangible 
assets. The remaining charge of £50 million (2013: £48 million) was charged directly to the consolidated income statement as incurred. 
Restructuring cash flow in the year was approximately £120 million (2013: £200 million), mainly due to the cost optimisation programme. 
In January 2013 we announced our cost optimisation programme, aligned to our strategy, with a target of generating annual savings of  
£300 million by 2018, and with an anticipated cash implementation cost in the region of £600 million. The programme includes major 
restructuring of a number of sales forces to align with our strategy, rationalisation of our manufacturing footprint, and aligning organisational 
structures, processes and resource levels with future requirements. A number of initiatives delivered savings of over £60 million in our 2014 
results (2013: £30 million). 
Asset impairments in 2014 relate mainly to the proposed closure of our manufacturing facilities in Nottingham and Nantes while in 2013 they 
were mainly due to the closure of our facility in Cadiz. 
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6 Directors and Employees 
Employment costs 
£ million 2014 2013 
Wages and salaries 901 907 
Social security costs 177 191 
Pension costs (note 22) (21) 81 
Share-based payments (note 25) 22 16 
 1,079 1,195 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions requiring 
disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report. These disclosures form part of the financial statements.  
Number of people employed by the Group during the year 
2014  
 
2013  
At 
30 September Average  
At 
30 September Average 
Tobacco  28,300 28,500   29,600 30,200 
Logistics 5,600 5,700   5,700 5,800 
 33,900 34,200   35,300 36,000 
Number of people employed by the Group by location during the year 
2014  
 
2013  
At 
30 September Average  
At 
30 September Average 
European Union 16,200 16,200   16,100 16,600 
Americas 7,500 7,700   8,200 8,200 
Rest of the World 10,200 10,300   11,000 11,200 
 33,900 34,200   35,300 36,000 
7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 
Reconciliation from reported net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs 
£ million 2014 2013 
Reported net finance costs 544 739 
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments  271 479 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments  (358) (589)
Exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities 99 (46)
Net fair value and exchange gains/(losses) on financial instruments 12 (156)
Interest income on net defined benefit assets 138 126 
Interest cost on net defined benefit liabilities (174) (168)
Unwind of discount on redundancy and other long-term provisions (4) (9)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost (40) (51)
Adjusted net finance costs 516 532 
Comprising 
Interest credit on bank deposits (9) (8)
Interest charge on bank and other loans 525 540 
Adjusted net finance costs 516 532 
Amounts in 2013 have been reclassified from fair value gains/losses on derivative financial instruments to exchange gains/losses on financing 
activities, to better reflect the nature of the transactions and the way the Group manages its financial risks and to ensure comparable data 
from year to year. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
8 Taxation 
Analysis of charge in the year 
£ million 2014 2013 
Current tax 
UK corporation tax  7 6 
Overseas taxation 412 472 
Total current tax 419 478 
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (350) (188)
Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 69 290 
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation 
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported profit before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure of 
earnings disclosed in note 10. 
£ million 2014 2013 
Reported taxation  69 290 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 301 72 
Deferred tax on impairment of acquired intangibles – 107 
Tax on net fair value and exchange losses on financial instruments  13 9 
Tax on post-employment benefits net financing cost 12 15 
Tax on restructuring costs 84 79 
Tax on unrecognised losses  51 – 
Adjusted tax charge 530 572 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year 
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the average of the enacted UK corporation 
tax rates for the year of 22 per cent (2013: 23.5 per cent) as follows: 
£ million 2014 2013 
Profit before tax  1,520 1,219 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate  334 286 
Tax effects of: 
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (105) (156)
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances (260) 44 
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances arising from changes in tax rates 46 – 
Permanent differences 71 51 
Non-deductible goodwill impairment – 67 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (17) (2)
Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 69 290 
Movement on current tax account 
£ million 2014 2013 
At 1 October (69) (317)
Charged to the consolidated income statement (419) (478)
Credited to other comprehensive income – 40 
Credited to equity 3 2 
Cash paid 457 686 
Exchange movements – 2 
Other movements (9) (4)
At 30 September (37) (69)
Analysed as: 
£ million 2014 2013 
Assets 96 72 
Liabilities (133) (141)
 (37) (69)
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
9 Dividends 
Dividend per share in respect of financial year 
Pence 2014  2013 2012 
Interim 38.8  35.2 31.7 
Final 89.3  81.2 73.9 
Total 128.1  116.4 105.6 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and final dividends in respect of a year are paid and recognised in the 
following financial period. 
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary equity holders in the year 
£ million 2014 2013 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous financial year 779 724 
Interim dividend 370 341 
 1,149 1,065 
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2014 of 89.3p per share amounts to a proposed final dividend payment of  
£851 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2014, and is subject to shareholder approval. If approved,  
the total dividend paid in respect of 2014 will be £1,221 million (2013: £1,120 million).  
10 Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent and the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares purchased by the 
Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the weighted average number 
of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised. No instruments have been excluded from the 
calculation for any period on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive. 
£ million 2014 2013 
Earnings: basic and diluted – attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,422 905 
 
Millions of shares 
Weighted average number of shares: 
Shares for basic earnings per share 957.4 973.9 
Potentially dilutive share options 2.5 2.6 
Shares for diluted earnings per share 959.9 976.5 
 
Pence 
Basic earnings per share 148.5 92.9 
Diluted earnings per share 148.1 92.7 
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2014  
 
2013  
Earnings 
per share 
(pence) Earnings  
Earnings 
per share 
(pence) Earnings 
Reported basic 148.5 1,422   92.9 905 
Acquisition costs 1.4 13   – – 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 35.8 343   30.8 300 
Impairment of acquired intangibles – –   48.6 473 
Net fair value and exchange (gains)/losses on financial instruments  (2.5) (25)  15.1 147 
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 2.8 28   3.7 36 
Restructuring costs 23.1 221   19.6 191 
Tax on unrecognised losses  (5.3) (51)  – – 
Adjustments above attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) (4)  – – 
Adjusted  203.4 1,947   210.7 2,052 
Adjusted diluted 202.8 1,947   210.1 2,052 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
11 Intangible Assets 
£ million 
2014  
Goodwill 
Intellectual 
property 
Supply 
agreements  Software Total 
Cost  
At 1 October 2013 12,697 7,264 1,414  175 21,550 
Additions – 64 –  37 101 
Reclassifications – – –  7 7 
Disposals – – –  (4) (4)
Exchange movements (743) (400) (91) (12) (1,246)
At 30 September 2014 11,954 6,928 1,323  203 20,408 
  
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 October 2013 1,489 2,025 543  111 4,168 
Amortisation charge for the year – 540 104  24 668 
Disposals – – –  (1) (1)
Exchange movements (103) (132) (41) (10) (286)
Accumulated amortisation – 2,078 606  124 2,808 
Accumulated impairment 1,386 355 –  – 1,741 
At 30 September 2014 1,386 2,433 606  124 4,549 
  
Net book value  
At 30 September 2014 10,568 4,495 717  79 15,859 
 
£ million 
2013  
Goodwill 
Intellectual 
property 
Supply 
agreements  Software Total 
Cost  
At 1 October 2012 12,178 7,019 1,354  151 20,702 
Additions – 9 –  27 36 
Acquisitions 41 – –  – 41 
Disposals – – –  (7) (7)
Exchange movements 478 236 60  4 778 
At 30 September 2013 12,697 7,264 1,414  175 21,550 
  
Amortisation and impairment  
At 1 October 2012 1,208 1,366 428  91 3,093 
Amortisation charge for the year – 276 96  22 394 
Impairment charge for the year 225 355 –  – 580 
Disposals – – –  (6) (6)
Exchange movements 56 28 19  4 107 
Accumulated amortisation – 1,670 543  111 2,324 
Accumulated impairment 1,489 355 –  – 1,844 
At 30 September 2013 1,489 2,025 543  111 4,168 
  
Net book value  
At 30 September 2013 11,208 5,239 871  64 17,382 
Intellectual property mainly comprises brands acquired through the purchases of Altadis in 2008 and Commonwealth Brands in 2007.  
Supply agreements include Logistics customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba. All were acquired under the 
purchase of Altadis. 
In November 2013, the Group acquired e-vapour intellectual property rights from the Hong Kong based company Dragonite for £46 million. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
11 Intangible Assets continued 
With effect from 1 October 2013 we have revised the estimated useful lives over which certain brands, trademarks and supply agreements in 
the Tobacco business will be amortised. In line with our strategy to focus on Growth and Specialist Brands, we have reduced the estimated 
remaining useful lives for all other brands to a maximum of five years. This change in estimate is the main reason for the increase in the charge 
for amortisation of acquired intangibles for the year ended 30 September 2014. 
Impairment charges in 2013 of £0.6 billion were in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to the Spanish market. 
Intangible amortisation and impairment are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
Amortisation and impairment in respect of intangible assets other than software are treated as reconciling items between reported operating 
profit and adjusted operating profit.  
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment review 
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose. For the Tobacco business CGUs are based on the markets where the business operates and are grouped in line with  
the divisional structure in operation during the year. The groupings represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. Goodwill and intangible assets have been reallocated from the previously reported geographically based CGU 
groupings. A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives is set out below. 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Goodwill 
Intangible  
assets with 
indefinite lives  Goodwill 
Intangible 
assets with 
indefinite lives 
Returns Markets North 3,948 177   4,243 190 
Returns Markets South 1,484 93   1,597 100 
Growth Markets 3,611 495   3,728 507 
Tobacco 9,043 765   9,568 797 
Logistics 1,525 –   1,640 – 
 10,568 765   11,208 797 
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 (all CGU groupings), Commonwealth Brands in 2007 (Growth 
Markets) and Altadis in 2008 (all CGU groupings). 
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications that 
impairment may have arisen. The value of a CGU, or group of CGUs as appropriate, is based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations 
use cash flow projections derived from three year financial plans which are approved by the Board annually and are based on detailed 
bottom-up market-by-market forecasts of projected sales volumes for each product line. These forecasts reflect, on an individual market 
basis, numerous assumptions and estimates regarding anticipated changes in market size, prices and duty regimes, consumer uptrading  
and downtrading, consumer preferences and other changes in product mix, based on long-term market trends, market data, anticipated 
regulatory developments, and management experience and expectations. We consider that pricing, market size, market shares and cost 
inflation are the key assumptions used in our plans. 
Growth rates and discount rates used 
The compound annual growth rates implicit in these value-in-use calculations are shown below. 
% 
2014  
Pre-tax  
discount rate 
Initial 
growth rate
Long-term 
growth rate
Returns Markets North 8.9  1.9 1.8 
Returns Markets South 11.6  (2.2) 1.8 
Growth Markets 8.6-12.9  0.9-23.4 1.8-4.0 
Logistics 9.6  7.8 1.8 
Cash flows from the three year plan period are extrapolated out to year five using the growth rate implicit in the three year plan, shown in the 
table above as the initial growth rate. Estimated long-term weighted average compound annual growth rates of between 1.8 per cent and  
4.0 per cent per annum are used beyond year five.  
Long-term growth rates are based on management’s long-term expectations, taking account of industry specific factors such as the  
nature of our products, the role of excise in government fiscal policy, and relatively stable and predictable long-term macro trends in the 
Tobacco industry.  
Discount rates used are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk profiles of the CGUs. 
Our impairment projections are prepared under the basis set out in IAS 36 which can differ from our internal plans.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Growth Markets 
Within our Growth Markets reporting segment, there are a number of CGU groupings based on our operating segments, including Drive 
Growth and Other Premium Cigar. 
The Drive Growth CGU grouping includes our markets in Russia, Italy and Japan, and has been affected in 2014 by destocking in Russia,  
the major market in this CGU grouping. Our impairment test for this CGU grouping indicated headroom of £240 million, and assumed a 
compound annual growth rate for Russia over the first five years of 23.4 per cent, reflecting maintenance of more consistent levels of trade 
inventory together with price increases achieved in 2014 and anticipated over the plan period. The test also assumed a discount rate for the 
Russian market of 12.9 per cent reflecting recent political uncertainty and a long-term growth rate of 3.0 per cent. A reduction of 24 per cent 
in overall forecast cash flows, or an increase in the discount rate by 290 basis points, or a reduction in the long-term growth rate of 300 basis 
points, or a further 24 per cent devaluation of the Russian rouble would cause the carrying value to equal the recoverable amount. 
The impairment test for our Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping that includes our non-Cuban Premium Cigar business indicated headroom  
of £170 million. A reduction in overall forecast cash flows of 25 per cent, or an increase in the discount rate by 240 basis points from  
9.9 per cent, or a reduction in the short-term growth rate of 630 basis points from 9.8 per cent, or a reduction in the long-term growth  
rate of 180 basis points from 2.3 per cent would cause the carrying value to equal the recoverable amount. 
Other CGU groupings 
For the rest of the Group, any reasonable movement in the assumptions used in the impairment tests would not result in an impairment. 
12 Property, Plant and Equipment 
£ million 
2014  
Property 
Plant and 
equipment  
Fixtures 
and motor 
vehicles Total 
Cost  
At 1 October 2013 1,152 1,859  444 3,455 
Additions 38 176  42 256 
Disposals (135) (44) (17) (196)
Reclassifications 1 16  (27) (10)
Exchange movements (66) (134) (29) (229)
At 30 September 2014 990 1,873  413 3,276 
  
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 October 2013 260 860  255 1,375 
Depreciation charge for the year 17 106  37 160 
Impairment 30 54  8 92 
Disposals (76) (39) (16) (131)
Reclassifications 1 (2) (1) (2)
Exchange movements (18) (46) (16) (80)
At 30 September 2014 214 933  267 1,414 
  
Net book value  
At 30 September 2014 776 940  146 1,862 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
12 Property, Plant and Equipment continued 
£ million 
2013  
Property 
Plant and 
equipment  
Fixtures 
and motor 
vehicles Total 
Cost  
At 1 October 2012 1,086 1,683  429 3,198 
Additions 21 201  47 269 
Disposals – (29) (27) (56)
Disposals of businesses (7) (16) (4) (27)
Reclassifications 7 2  (14) (5)
Exchange movements 45 18  13 76 
At 30 September 2013 1,152 1,859  444 3,455 
  
Depreciation and impairment  
At 1 October 2012 184 752  237 1,173 
Depreciation charge for the year 16 106  41 163 
Impairment 54 22  2 78 
Disposals (3) (18) (26) (47)
Disposals of businesses – (14) (3) (17)
Exchange movements 9 12  4 25 
At 30 September 2013 260 860  255 1,375 
  
Net book value  
At 30 September 2013 892 999  189 2,080 
The impairment charges in 2013 were mainly due to the closure of our facility in Cadiz under our cost optimisation programme.  
The impairment charges in 2014 are mainly due to the proposed closure of our Nottingham and Nantes manufacturing facilities, as 
announced in April 2014. 
13 Joint Ventures 
The principal joint ventures are Corporación Habanos SA, Cuba and Altabana SL, Spain. Summarised financial information for the Group’s 
share of joint ventures, which are accounted for under the proportional consolidation method, is shown below: 
£ million 
2014  
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana  Others Total 
Revenue 35 106  24 165 
Profit after taxation 9 19  1 29 
  
Non-current assets 173 12  7 192 
Current assets 30 70  22 122 
Total assets 203 82  29 314 
Current liabilities (35) (23) (19) (77)
Non-current liabilities (5) (1) – (6)
Total liabilities (40) (24) (19) (83)
Net assets 163 58  10 231 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
£ million 
2013  
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana  Others Total 
Revenue 51 111  14 176 
Profit after taxation 15 19  3 37 
  
Non-current assets 178 8  3 189 
Current assets 35 71  9 115 
Total assets 213 79  12 304 
Current liabilities (17) (20) (3) (40)
Non-current liabilities (9) (2) – (11)
Total liabilities (26) (22) (3) (51)
Net assets 187 57  9 253 
Transactions and balances with joint ventures 
£ million 2014 2013 
Sales to  61 68 
Purchases from 63 80 
Accounts receivable from 10 9 
Current loans to 8 53 
Accounts payable to (11) (10)
A new accounting standard, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, comes into effect for the Group from 1 October 2014. For future results, equity 
accounting will be compulsory for joint arrangements, and our current policy of proportionately consolidating joint ventures’ results and assets  
and liabilities will no longer be permitted. 
If the standard had been in effect in FY14, the revenue and profit after taxation figures above for 2014 would not have been included in 
revenue and profit after taxation in the Group’s consolidated income statement. Instead, the profit and loss items would have been shown  
in the consolidated income statement below net finance costs as “post-tax share of investments accounted for using the equity method”. 
Similarly, the asset and liability amounts would not have been included in the corresponding line items in the Group’s consolidated balance 
sheet, but would have been reclassified as “Investments accounted for using the equity method”. 
14 Inventories 
£ million 2014 2013 
Raw materials 1,004 1,119 
Work in progress 54 55 
Finished inventories 1,741 1,922 
Other inventories 136 200 
 2,935 3,296 
Other inventories mainly comprise duty-paid tax stamps. 
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because of the 
duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. We estimate that around £250 million (2013: £262 million) 
of leaf tobacco held within raw materials will not be utilised within a year of the balance sheet date. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
15 Trade and Other Receivables 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Current Non-current  Current Non-current 
Trade receivables 2,648 –   2,809 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (55) –   (51) – 
Net trade receivables 2,593 –   2,758 – 
Other receivables 86 63   88 73 
Prepayments and accrued income 127 12   120 12 
 2,806 75   2,966 85 
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows: 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Current Non-current  Current Non-current 
Within credit terms 2,501 –   2,645 – 
Past due by less than 3 months 42 –   68 – 
Past due by more than 3 months 50 –   45 – 
Amounts that are impaired 55 –   51 – 
 2,648 –   2,809 – 
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
£ million 2014 2013 
Cash at bank and in hand 1,422 1,677 
Short-term deposits and other liquid assets 9 132 
 1,431 1,809 
Cash at 30 September 2014 and 2013 was held partly in preparation for repayments of borrowings due in the early part of the new  
financial year. 
£153 million (2013: £169 million) of total cash and cash equivalents is held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer the  
funds abroad. Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a reasonable period 
of time. 
17 Trade and Other Payables 
£ million 
2014  
 
2013  
Current Non-current  Current Non-current 
Trade payables 1,014 –   1,055 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 5,245 –   5,679 – 
Other payables 210 –   165 – 
Accruals and deferred income 521 21   455 17 
 6,990 21   7,354 17 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
18 Borrowings 
The Group’s borrowings at amortised cost at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
£ million 2014 2013
Current borrowings 
Bank loans and overdrafts 147 24
Capital market issuance: 
European commercial paper (ECP) 321 1,143
€500m 5.125% notes due October 2013 – 439
€1,200m 4.375% notes due November 2013 – 1,041
€750m 7.25% notes due September 2014 – 629
Total current borrowings 468 3,276
 
Non-current borrowings 
Bank loans 2 1
Capital market issuance: 
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 394 409
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 1,226 1,318
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 471 471
$1,250m 2.05% notes due February 2018 773 773
€850m 4.5% notes due July 2018 667 717
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 210 210
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 510 510
€750m 5.0% notes due December 2019 606 652
€1,000m 2.25% notes due February 2021 785 –
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 1,054 1,054
$1,000m 3.5% notes due February 2023 618 619
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 626 625
€650m 3.375% notes due February 2026 514 –
£500m 5.5% notes due September 2026 499 499
£500m 4.875% notes due June 2032 509 –
Total non-current borrowings 9,464 7,858
Total borrowings 9,932 11,134
Analysed as: 
Capital market issuance 9,783 11,109
Bank loans and overdrafts 149 25
Current borrowings and non-current borrowings at 30 September 2014 include interest payable of £1 million (2013: £64 million) and  
£291 million (2013: £257 million) respectively. 
During the year, €2,450 million notes were repaid, and in February 2014 the Group issued three tranches of debt in the capital markets for  
€1,000 million, €650 million and £500 million at fixed rates of 2.25 per cent, 3.375 per cent and 4.875 per cent respectively with an average 
maturity of 12 years. 
The bank loans and overdrafts are floating rate liabilities. The capital market issuances in place at the balance sheet date bear interest  
(before the effects of financial derivatives which are detailed in note 20) at a fixed rate throughout their life. The Group has not defaulted  
on any borrowings during the year (2013: no defaults). 
All borrowings are unsecured. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
18 Borrowings continued 
Undrawn borrowing facilities 
In July 2014 the Group entered into term loan facilities of £4.4 billion equivalent to fund the purchase of certain US assets announced in July 
2014. At the same time, the Group refinanced its core bank facility and entered into an additional revolving credit facility to provide working 
capital headroom in respect of the US acquisition. 
All of these facilities were undrawn at 30 September 2014. 
£ million 2014 2013
Amounts maturing: 
Between one and two years 3,310 251
Between two and five years 3,631 3,474
In five years or more 927 –
 7,868 3,725
Non-current financial liabilities 
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities as at 30 September (including net derivative financial 
liabilities detailed in note 20) was as follows: 
£ million 
2014 2013 
Borrowings
Net derivative 
financial 
liabilities/ 
(assets) Total Borrowings 
Net derivative 
financial 
liabilities Total
Amounts maturing:  
Between one and two years 1,622 (47) 1,575 1 72 73
Between two and five years 2,631 26 2,657 3,688 24 3,712
In five years or more 5,211 61 5,272 4,169 123 4,292
 9,464 40 9,504 7,858 219 8,077
19 Financial Risk Factors 
Financial risk management 
Overview 
In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to financial risks including market, liquidity and credit risk. This note explains the 
Group’s exposure to these risks, how they are measured and assessed, and summarises the policies and processes used to manage them, 
including those related to the management of capital. 
The Group operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing external and internal funding requirements and financial 
risks in support of the Group’s strategic objectives, specifically its exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and 
counterparty credit risk. Imperial Tobacco operates on a global basis and manages its capital to ensure that subsidiaries are able to operate 
as going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity. 
The Group’s treasury activities are monitored by the Group Treasury Committee (GTC), which meets regularly throughout the year and 
comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary and other senior management from Group Finance, Manufacturing and Group 
Treasury. The GTC operates in accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board and a framework which sets out the expectations 
and boundaries to assist in the effective oversight of Group Treasury activities. The Group Treasurer reports on a regular basis to the Board, 
and to the GTC on a monthly basis. 
The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions and Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre, nor does it enter into 
speculative transactions. 
Market risk 
Price risk 
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk or financial instrument price risk other than its pension assets disclosed in note 22. 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be fluctuations in the price of tobacco leaf. As with other agricultural 
commodities, the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations influence tobacco plantings in those 
countries where tobacco is grown. Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that may affect crop quality or supply 
and so lead to changes in price. The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf from a number of different countries and 
counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held. Currently, these techniques reduce the expected exposure to this risk to levels 
considered not material and accordingly, no sensitivity analysis has been presented. 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies, 
as well as cash investments, borrowings and derivatives in non-functional currencies. The Group’s financial results are principally exposed to 
fluctuations in euro and US dollar exchange rates. 
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and external trade flows are not hedged. The Group minimises the transaction risk 
associated with overseas operating subsidiaries by matching local currency flows where possible. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Translation risk 
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the Group seeks to match borrowings to the currency of underlying net assets  
which are primarily euros and US dollars. The Group has a policy of issuing debt in the most appropriate market or markets at the time of 
raising new finance and to subsequently enter into derivative financial instruments to change the currency of debt as required. Borrowings 
denominated in, or swapped into foreign currencies to match the Group’s investment in overseas assets are treated as a hedge against the 
net investment wherever possible. 
Transaction risk 
The Group’s material transaction exposures arise on costs denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of subsidiaries, 
including the purchase of tobacco leaf, which is sourced from various countries but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging 
materials which are sourced from various countries and purchased in a number of currencies. 
The Group’s sterling dividend to external shareholders is sourced from foreign subsidiary earnings. Cash flows are managed using liquidity 
swaps in line with the Group’s daily cash management processes, and the timing of internal and external dividend flows as appropriate. 
Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis 
The tables below illustrate on an indicative basis, the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on monetary items held by Group 
companies in currencies other than their functional currencies. The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that net debt and  
the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies remain constant, and that there is no change to the net investment hedge 
designations in place at 30 September 2014. The sensitivity analysis does not reflect any change to revenue or non-finance costs that  
may result from changing exchange rates and ignores any taxation implications and offsetting effects of derivative financial instruments’  
fair value movements. 
The effect in the consolidated income statement from foreign exchange rate movements primarily relates to financial instruments that 
commercially hedge Group exposures, but which are not accounted for as hedges under IAS 39. This value is expected to be substantially 
offset by related movements through other comprehensive income and, accordingly, any residual gain or loss is excluded from our adjusted 
performance measures. 
At 30 September 2014, after the effect of derivative financial instruments, approximately 17 per cent (2013: 25 per cent) of reported net debt 
was denominated in sterling, 73 per cent in euro (2013: 69 per cent) and 10 per cent in US dollars (2013: 6 per cent). 
£ million 
2014 2013
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in income 
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures:  
10% appreciation of euro (2013: 10%) 251 (172)
10% appreciation of US dollar (2013: 10%)  22 2
10% appreciation of sterling (2013: 10%) 3 18
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause a decrease in income of £307 million, £26 million and £3 million for euro,  
US dollar and sterling exchange rates respectively (2013: £211 million, -£3 million and -£22 million). 
Movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges in hedging the Group’s euro 
denominated assets. 
£ million 
2014 2013
Change in 
equity 
Change in 
equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures:  
10% appreciation of euro (2013: 10%) 923 1,124
10% appreciation of US dollar (2013: 10%)  – –
10% appreciation of sterling (2013: 10%) – –
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would result in a change in equity of -£1,129 million, £0 million and £0 million for euro,  
US dollar and sterling exchange rates respectively (2013: -£1,374 million, £0 million and £0 million). 
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk on Group borrowings is managed by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising 
new finance and subsequently entering into derivative financial instruments to change the currency and interest rate mix in line with the GTC 
framework. Group Treasury monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and fair value of 
derivative financial instruments. The Group’s debt maturity profile is detailed in the contractual cash flows table below. 
At 30 September 2014, including the effect of derivative financial instruments detailed in note 20, 71 per cent (2013: 49 per cent) of reported 
net debt was at floating rates of interest and 29 per cent (2013: 51 per cent) was at fixed rates of interest. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
19 Financial Risk Factors continued 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis 
The tables below illustrate on an indicative basis the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its euro, US dollar and sterling monetary items 
which are primarily external borrowings, cash and cash equivalents. 
The impact in the consolidated income statement due to changes in interest rates reflects the effect on net finance costs in respect of the 
Group’s net debt and the fixed to floating rate debt ratio prevailing at 30 September 2014, and ignores any taxation implications and offsetting 
effects of derivative financial instruments’ fair value movements. 
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the net debt and derivatives portfolio remain constant and that there is no net 
impact on other comprehensive income. 
The movement in interest rates is considered reasonable for the purposes of this analysis and the estimated effect assumes a lower limit of 
zero for interest rates where relevant. 
£ million 
2014 2013
Change in 
net income 
Change in 
net income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements:  
1% increase in euro interest rates (2013: 1%) 32 20
1% increase in US dollar interest rates (2013: 1%) 13 9
1% increase in sterling interest rates (2013: 1%) 12 22
Liquidity risk 
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, which represents the risk of having insufficient funds to meet its financing needs. To manage this risk 
the Group has a policy of actively maintaining a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that 
the Group has sufficient available funds for the forecast requirements of the Group over the short to medium term. To prevent over-reliance  
on individual sources of liquidity, funding is provided by a range of instruments including bank loans, commercial paper and capital market 
issuance. Counterparty credit risk associated with the Group’s investment and derivative portfolio is discussed in the credit risk section below. 
The Group borrows centrally in order to meet forecast funding requirements, and Group Treasury is in regular dialogue with subsidiaries to 
ensure their liquidity needs are met. Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital and retained earnings, loans from 
central finance companies, and in very limited cases through external local borrowings. Cash pooling structures are used to centralise cash 
and minimise external borrowings as appropriate and cash flow forecasts and funding requirements are reviewed by Group Treasury on a 
regular basis. Management periodically performs stress tests and sensitivity analysis on forecasts, which are subsequently reviewed by the 
Audit Committee. 
The table below summarises the Group’s financial liabilities by maturity based on their contractual cash flows. The contractual cash flows 
disclosed in the table include interest to be paid, are undiscounted and have been calculated using spot rates of exchange at the relevant 
balance sheet date. Net derivative financial instruments’ contractual cash flows are as detailed in note 20. 
£ million 
2014 
Balance
sheet
amount
Contractual
cash flows
Total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years 
Between 
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities:  
Bank loans 149 149 147 2 – –
Capital market issuance 9,783 12,677 834 1,994 3,621 6,228
Trade and other payables 1,014 1,014 1,014 – – –
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 10,946 13,840 1,995 1,996 3,621 6,228
 
£ million 
2013 
Balance
sheet
amount
Contractual
cash flows
Total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years 
Between 
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities:  
Bank loans 25 25 24 1 – –
Capital market issuance 11,109 13,851 3,096 1,514 4,725 4,516
Trade and other payables 1,055 1,055 1,055 – – –
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 12,189 14,931 4,175 1,515 4,725 4,516
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Capital management 
The Group manages the capital structure through an appropriate mix of debt and equity in order to minimise the cost of capital whilst  
ensuring ongoing access to the external markets at an appropriate rate of interest. The Group defines capital as adjusted net debt and equity 
attributable to the owners of the Company. Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries,  
the Group’s only externally imposed capital requirements are interest cover and gearing covenants contained within external debt facilities, 
within which the Group was fully compliant during the current and prior periods and expects to be so going forward. 
The Group seeks to maintain an investment grade credit rating which it monitors by reference to a number of key financial ratios. The 
framework within which the Group’s capital base is managed includes the return of capital to shareholders through an appropriate mix of 
share buy backs and dividends. 
In order to accelerate the pace of debt repayment associated with the acquisition of certain US assets as announced in July 2014, the Group 
has suspended its share buy-back programme. As at 30 September 2014 c14.2 million shares had been repurchased during the financial 
year at a cost of approximately £341 million (2013: £500 million). 
The Group is currently rated Baa3/negative outlook by Moody’s Investors Service Limited, BBB/stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s Credit 
Market Services Europe Limited and BBB/negative outlook by Fitch Ratings Limited. The Group’s investment grade credit rating is not 
expected to be impacted by the US acquisition. 
Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from trade receivables due from its customers, cash deposits and financial instruments held with 
external counterparties. 
Trade and other receivables 
The Group has some significant concentrations of customer credit risk. However, policies have been implemented to ensure that sales  
of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and credit support or guarantees are obtained where appropriate. 
Analysis of trade and other receivables is provided in note 15. 
Financial instruments 
In order to manage its credit risk to any one counterparty, the Group places cash deposits and enters into derivative financial instruments  
with a diversified group of financial institutions carrying suitable credit ratings in line with GTC approved limits. Utilisation of counterparty credit 
limits is regularly monitored by Group Treasury and to reduce credit exposures, the Group has ISDA Agreements in place with most of its 
counterparties which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances. In very limited cases, collateral is deposited 
against derivative financial liabilities which are all supported by an ISDA Credit Support Annex. 
The Group considers its maximum aggregate credit risk to be £4,722 million at 30 September 2014 (2013: £5,175 million), which includes 
trade receivables, derivative financial assets and cash and cash equivalents. 
The table below summarises the Group’s five largest financial institution counterparties, based on maximum exposure to credit risk, by credit 
rating and balances at 30 September 2014. As at the balance sheet date, management does not expect these counterparties to default on 
their current obligations. 
The impact of the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of derivatives and other obligations held at fair value is not considered to  
be material. 
Counterparty exposure 
2014 
 
2013 
S&P credit
rating
Maximum  
exposure to  
credit risk  
£ million 
S&P credit
rating
Maximum
exposure to
credit risk
£ million
Highest  A 179  A 113
2nd highest  A 134  A 112
3rd highest  A+ 129  A+ 112
4th highest  A 112  A 112
5th highest A+ 111  A 111
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
19 Financial Risk Factors continued 
Fair value estimation and hierarchy 
All financial assets and liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at amortised cost, other than derivative financial instruments which are 
carried at fair value. All derivative financial instruments are valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data such as  
yield curves and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date (Level 2 classification hierarchy per IFRS 7). 
With the exception of capital market issuance, the fair value of all financial assets and financial liabilities is considered to approximate to their 
carrying amount. Set out below is a comparison of carrying amount and fair value of the Group’s capital market issuance (as detailed in  
note 18) by currency. The fair value of these bonds has been determined by reference to market prices as at the balance sheet date. 
£ million 
2014 
 
2013 
Balance sheet 
amount Fair value 
Balance sheet 
amount Fair value
GBP 3,879 4,576  3,369 4,047
EUR  4,192 4,505  5,205 5,516
USD  1,391 1,377  1,392 1,348
Total capital market issuance 9,462 10,458  9,966 10,911
Netting arrangements of financial instruments 
The following tables set out the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to netting and set-off arrangements. 
Financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off arrangements and disclosed on a net basis in the Group’s balance sheet primarily 
relate to cash pooling arrangements and collateral in respect of derivative financial instruments. 
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate 
to derivative transactions executed under ISDA Agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of 
default of the other party. 
£ million 
2014 
Gross 
financial 
assets/
(liabilities)
Gross 
amounts 
offset
Net financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities) 
per balance 
sheet 
Related 
amounts not 
set off in the 
balance sheet Net
Assets  
Derivative financial instruments 745 (102) 643 (451) 192
Cash and cash equivalents 3,454 (2,023) 1,431 – 1,431
 4,199 (2,125) 2,074 (451) 1,623
Liabilities  
Derivative financial instruments (793) 102 (691) 451 (240)
Bank loans and overdrafts (2,170) 2,023 (147) – (147)
 (2,963) 2,125 (838) 451 (387)
 
£ million 
2013 
Gross 
financial 
assets/
(liabilities)
Gross 
amounts 
offset
Net financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities) 
per balance  
sheet 
Related 
amounts not 
set off in the 
balance sheet Net
Assets  
Derivative financial instruments 667 (110) 557 (426) 131
Cash and cash equivalents 1,898 (89) 1,809 – 1,809
 2,565 (199) 2,366 (426) 1,940
Liabilities  
Derivative financial instruments (860) 110 (750) 426 (324)
Bank loans and overdrafts (113) 89 (24) – (24)
 (973) 199 (774) 426 (348)
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
20 Derivative Financial Instruments 
The following table presents the Group’s derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value in accordance with the Level 2  
IFRS 7 classification hierarchy. Level 2 instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on inputs other than 
quoted market prices that are observable either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, other observable values). 
There were no changes to the valuation methods or transfers between hierarchies during the year. 
£ million 
2014 2013 
Assets Liabilities Net fair value Assets Liabilities Net fair value
Current derivative financial instruments  
Interest rate swaps and swaptions 27 (41) (14) 203 (158) 45
Forward foreign currency contracts 7 (7) – 3 (50) (47)
Cross currency swaps 4 – 4 39 (17) 22
Total current derivatives 38 (48) (10) 245 (225) 20
Collateral deposited against derivative financial  
liabilities under the terms and conditions of an  
ISDA Credit Support Annex – 2 2 – 6 6
 38 (46) (8) 245 (219) 26
Non-current derivative financial instruments  
Interest rate swaps and swaptions 521 (692) (171) 312 (470) (158)
Cross currency swaps 84 (53) 31 – (165) (165)
Total non-current derivatives 605 (745) (140) 312 (635) (323)
Collateral deposited against derivative financial  
liabilities under the terms and conditions of an  
ISDA Credit Support Annex – 100 100 – 104 104
 605 (645) (40) 312 (531) (219)
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments 643 (691) (48) 557 (750) (193)
Maturity of obligations under derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments have been classified in the balance sheet as current or non-current according to their undiscounted 
contractual cash settlements applying spot rates as at the balance sheet date. Any collateral transferred to counterparties in respect of 
derivative financial liabilities has been classified consistently with the related underlying derivative. 
The table below shows all contractual cash flows (interest and exchange of principals) for all derivative financial instruments held at the  
balance sheet date. 
£ million 
2014 
Balance 
sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash flows 
total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years 
Between 
2 and 5 years >5 years
Net settled derivatives (149) 271 51 24 25 171
Gross settled derivatives 101 
– receipts 4,036 1,194 48 812 1,982
– payments (4,507) (1,222) (76) (866) (2,343)
 (48) (200) 23 (4) (29) (190)
 
£ million 
2013 
Balance 
sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash flows 
total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years 
Between 
2 and 5 years > 5 years
Net settled derivatives (76) 62 42 18 1 1
Gross settled derivatives (117) 
– receipts 6,491 3,445 1,145 640 1,261
– payments (6,534) (3,444) (1,103) (616) (1,371)
 (193)194360 25(109)
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
20 Derivative Financial Instruments continued 
Derivatives as hedging instruments 
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements of  
IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, and as permitted under  
IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments. 
The Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s 
foreign operations as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise income statement volatility. 
Interest rate swaps 
As outlined in note 19, interest rate risk on Group borrowings is managed by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate 
at the time of raising new finance and then using derivative financial instruments to change the debt into the appropriate proportions of fixed 
and floating interest rates in accordance with the GTC framework where necessary. 
Interest rate swaps entered into to change fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings are as follows: 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2014 
Notional Fair value Receiving rates Paying rates 
GBP 3,670 281 3.7% to 8.7% LIBOR plus 212bps to 511bps
EUR 4,081 255 2.2% to 8.0% EURIBOR plus 109bps to 503bps
USD 1,390 (12) 2.0% to 3.4% LIBOR plus 94bps to 126bps
 9,141 524
 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2013 
Notional Fair value Receiving rates Paying rates 
GBP 1,166 268 5.4% to 8.7% LIBOR plus 269bps to 511bps
EUR 4,954 238 3.9% to 8.0% EURIBOR plus 55bps to 503bps
USD 452 (24) 2.0% to 3.4% LIBOR plus 94bps to 126bps
 6,572 482
Interest rate swaps entered into to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk are as follows: 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2014 
Notional Fair value Paying rates Receiving
GBP 1,266 (96) 2.7% to 4.4% LIBOR
EUR 5,193 (558) 0.8% to 5.2% EURIBOR
USD 1,483 (18) 1.4% to 4.1% LIBOR
 7,942 (672)
 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2013 
Notional Fair value Paying rates Receiving
GBP 2,600 (125) 3.0% to 4.4% LIBOR
EUR 5,166 (436) 1.5% to 5.2% EURIBOR
USD 1,452 (23) 1.4% to 4.1% LIBOR
 9,218 (584)
A small number of the interest rate swaps used to hedge interest rate risk have embedded options. Assumptions have been made based on 
market information and from counterparties’ expectations at 30 September 2014 to determine whether, and if so when, such options are 
likely to be exercised in order to determine the probable maturity date. The actual maturity date could be earlier depending upon future market 
conditions and a cancellation would not result in a cash flow other than in respect of interest outstanding at the cancellation date. The effect  
of the cancellation of any of these interest rate swaps would be to reduce the proportion of the Group’s borrowings that were at a fixed rate, 
increasing the Group’s exposure to cash flow interest rate risk. 
Included in the above are forward starting interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of £2,729 million equivalent (2013: £1,266 million 
equivalent) with tenors extending between 5 and 10 years, starting between October 2015 and May 2017. The fair value of these swaps was  
a net liability of £115 million (2013: net liability of £43 million) as at the balance sheet date. 
Forward foreign currency contracts 
The Group has entered into forward currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures. As at 30 September 2014 the 
notional amount of these contracts was £1,146 million equivalent (2013: £3,011 million equivalent) and the fair value of these contracts was  
a net asset of £nil (2013: £47 million net liability). 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Cross currency swaps 
The Group enters into cross currency swaps to change the currency of debt into the appropriate currency with consideration to the underlying 
assets of the Group as appropriate. As at 30 September 2014, the notional amount of cross currency swaps entered into to convert issued 
fixed rate debt into the desired currency at floating rates of interest was £650 million (2013: £650 million) and the fair value liability of these 
swaps was £30 million (2013: £73 million net liability). 
As at 30 September 2014, the notional amount of cross currency swaps entered into to convert floating rate sterling debt into the desired 
currency at floating rates of interest was £2,000 million (2013: £1,000 million) and the fair value asset of these swaps was £71 million  
(2013: £1 million net liability). 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
As at 30 September 2014 external debt with a carrying value of €5,165 million (2013: €6,507 million) and cross currency swaps with a 
notional value of €2,461 million (2013: €2,835 million) have been designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group’s foreign 
operations. To the extent that these hedges are effective, gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings and derivatives are 
recognised in other comprehensive income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the Group’s foreign 
operations. Permanent intra-group loans with a fair value of €5,440 million (2013: €5,608 million) as at the balance sheet date have  
been treated as a reduction in investments in the Group’s foreign operations, in line with IAS 21. 
During the year, as a result of net investment hedging, foreign exchange gains amounting to £831 million (2013: £662 million losses) were 
transferred to reserves through other comprehensive income. 
Reconciliation of fair value of derivative financial instruments 
The movements in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows: 
£ million 
2014 
Fair value attributable to  
currency movements  
recognised in: 
 
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
movements 
recognised in: 
Total
Comprehensive 
income
Income 
statement 
Income 
statement 
Derivative financial instruments:    
Gains arising on derivative instruments (note 7) – 62  271 333
Losses arising on derivative instruments (note 7) – (81)  (358) (439)
Gains arising on instruments designated as net investment hedges 150 –  – 150
Accretion of accrued interest – –  (20) (20)
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments 150 (19)  (107) 24
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2013    (193)
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments    121
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2014    (48)
 
£ million 
2013 
Fair value attributable to  
currency movements  
recognised in: 
 
Fair value 
attributable to 
interest rate 
movements 
recognised in: 
Total
Comprehensive 
income
Income 
statement 
Income 
statement 
Derivative financial instruments:    
Gains arising on derivative instruments (note 7) – 111  479 590
Losses arising on derivative instruments (note 7) – (99)  (589) (688)
Losses arising on instruments designated as net investment hedges (114) –  – (114)
Net fair value gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments (114) 12  (110) (212)
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2012    (9)
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments    28
Net fair value of derivatives at 30 September 2013    (193)
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate 
offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet. 
Deferred tax assets 
£ million 
2014  
Accelerated 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements 
Other 
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2013 (52) 156 2  47 153 
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 7 (12) (1) 94 88 
Transfers 20 (48) –  5 (23)
Exchange movements 26 5 –  (8) 23 
At 30 September 2014 1 101 1  138 241 
 
£ million 
2013  
Accelerated 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements 
Other 
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2012 (67) 158 3  48 142 
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 31 12 (1) 10 52 
Charged to other comprehensive income – (36) –  – (36)
Transfers – 7 –  (9)(2)
Exchange movements (16) 15 –  (2) (3)
At 30 September 2013 (52) 156 2  47 153 
Deferred tax liabilities 
£ million 
2014  
Accelerated 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements 
Other 
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2013 (2,008) 58 –  130 (1,820)
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 337 (33) –  (42) 262 
Charged to other comprehensive income – (1) –  – (1)
Transfers (54) 32 –  47 25 
Exchange movements 103 (4) –  (18) 81 
At 30 September 2014 (1,622) 52 –  117 (1,453)
 
£ million 
2013  
Accelerated 
depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements 
Other 
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2012 (2,123) 63 –  183 (1,877)
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 198 (1) –  (61) 136 
Charged to other comprehensive income – (6) –  – (6)
Transfers – (3)–  5 2 
Exchange movements (83) 5 –  3 (75)
At 30 September 2013 (2,008) 58 –  130 (1,820)
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months 
£ million 2014 2013 
Deferred tax assets 59 65 
Deferred tax liabilities (233) (121)
 (174) (56)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered in more than 12 months 
£ million 2014 2013 
Deferred tax assets 182 88 
Deferred tax liabilities (1,220) (1,699)
 (1,038) (1,611)
Within Other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £92 million (2013: £25 million) are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the 
extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.  
As at the balance sheet date, deferred tax assets of £373 million (2013: £598 million) have not been recognised due to the potential 
uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions. Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets, £332 million  
(2013: £486 million) losses are expected to expire at approximately £50 million (2013: £60 million) per annum between 2015 and 2021,  
£11 million (2013: £12 million) are expected to expire within 5 years and £27 million are expected to expire between 2022 and 2026. 
Also within Other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £10 million (2013: £22 million) are recognised for tax credits carried forward  
to the extent that the realisation of the tax related benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets of £229 million  
(2013: £131 million) have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the credits. These unrecognised deferred  
tax assets are expected to expire between 2021 and 2027. 
We have reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets in an overseas territory in the light of forecast business performance. Consequently, 
we have increased deferred tax assets of £90 million (2013: £76 million reduction) previously de-recognised on the basis that it is more likely 
than not that these are recoverable. 
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have 
not been recognised is £7 billion (2013: £7 billion). A provision of £4 million (2013: £6 million) has been made for taxation expected to arise on 
a planned future dividend payment of £54 million from one subsidiary. No liability has been recognised in respect of other differences because 
the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax liability of £48 million arising on an internal disposal has not been recognised as the Group is in a position to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference, and it is probable that the liability will not crystallise in the foreseeable future. In addition, the liability 
is less than current unrecognised deferred tax assets which will be available to reduce the liability to nil. 
The rate of UK corporation tax was reduced by 2 per cent from 23 per cent to 21 per cent from 1 April 2014. A further reduction to  
20 per cent from 1 April 2015 was enacted at the balance sheet date and is reflected in the deferred tax balances.  
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined contribution 
schemes. The Group’s two principal schemes are defined benefit schemes and are operated by Imperial Tobacco Limited in the UK and 
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany; these schemes represent 71 per cent and 12 per cent of the Group’s total retirement 
benefit obligations and 61 per cent and 15 per cent of the current service cost respectively.  
During the year ITG has adopted IAS 19 (Revised) with effects as described in note 1, Accounting Policies, and also resulting in the revised 
presentation formats set out below. 
Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund 
The UK scheme – the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or ITPF – is a voluntary final salary pension scheme with a normal retirement age  
of 60 for most members. The ITPF is offered to employees who joined the company before 1 October 2010 and has a weighted average 
maturity of 16 years. The population comprises 59 per cent in respect of pensioners, 37 per cent in respect of deferred members and  
4 per cent in respect of active employees. New employees in the UK are now offered a defined contribution scheme. Should surplus funds 
arise in the defined benefit section they may be used to finance defined contribution section contributions with company contributions 
reduced accordingly. 
The ITPF operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms 
of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation. The ITPF’s assets are held by the trust. 
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under the 
ITPF are future inflation levels (including the impact of inflation on future salary increases) and the actual longevity of the membership. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 
Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund continued 
The contributions paid to the ITPF are set by the ITPF Scheme Actuary every three years. The Scheme Actuary is an external consultant, 
appointed by the Trustees. Principal factors that the Scheme Actuary will have regard to include the covenant offered by Imperial Tobacco 
Limited, the level of risk in the ITPF, the expected returns on the ITPF’s assets, the results of the funding assessment on an ongoing basis and 
the expected cost of securing benefits if the fund were to be discontinued.  
The latest valuation of the ITPF was carried out as at 31 March 2013 when the market value of the invested assets was £2,957 million.  
Based on the ongoing funding target the total assets were sufficient to cover 100 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members for 
past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. The total assets were sufficient to cover 90 per cent of the total benefits that  
had accrued to members for past service and future service benefits for current members. In compliance with the Pensions Act 2004,  
Imperial Tobacco Limited and the Trustee agreed a scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles and a schedule of 
contributions accordingly. 
Following the valuation, the level of employer’s contributions to the scheme was increased from £31 million per year. The Company paid 
£47.5 million on 31 March 2014 and agreed to pay £52.5 million in the year to 31 March 2015, £57.5 million in the year to 31 March 2016  
and £65 million each year for the subsequent 12 years. Further contributions were agreed to be paid by the Company in the event of a 
downgrade in the credit rating of Imperial Tobacco Group’s senior unsecured long-term debt. In addition, surety guarantees with a total  
value of £400 million and a parental guarantee with ITG have been put in place. The contributions agreed, plus the surety guarantees,  
cover the expected discontinuance cost as at the valuation date. 
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position as at 31 March each year. The latest annual update on an ongoing 
basis was carried out as at 31 March 2014 and showed a surplus of £196 million in relation to past service accrued benefits. 
The main risk for the Group in respect of the ITPF is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns are not sufficient to pay 
for the benefits (which will be influenced by the factors noted above). The level of equity returns will be a key determinant of overall investment 
return. The investment portfolio is also subject to a range of other risks typical of the asset classes held, in particular credit risk on bonds and 
exposure to the property market.  
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) and the current service cost are sensitive to the assumptions made 
about future inflation and salary growth levels, as well as the assumptions made about life expectation. They are also sensitive to the discount 
rate, which depends on market yields on sterling denominated AA corporate bonds. The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 
assumptions are a more prudent longevity assumption for funding and a different approach to setting the discount rate. A consequence of  
the ITPF’s investment strategy, with a significant proportion of the assets invested in equities and other return-seeking assets, is that the 
difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be relatively volatile. 
The Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken Pension Plan 
The German scheme, the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken Pension Plan (RCPP), is primarily a career average pension plan that is open to new 
entrants, though a small closed group of members has final salary benefits. It has a weighted average maturity of 17 years. The scheme 
population comprises 53 per cent in respect of pensioners, 16 per cent in respect of deferred members and 31 per cent in respect of  
active employees.  
The plan is unfunded and the company pays benefits as they arise. The plan’s obligations arise under a works council agreement and are 
subject to standard German legal requirements around such matters as the benefits to be provided to employees who leave service, and 
pension increases in payment. Over the next year Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH expects to pay £20 million in respect of benefits. 
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under the 
plan are future inflation levels and the actual longevity of the membership. 
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation and the current service cost are sensitive to the assumptions made about 
the above variables, as well as the discount rate, which depends on market yields on euro denominated AA corporate bonds. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Other plans 
Other plans of the Group include various pension plans, other post-employment and long-term employee benefit plans in several countries  
of operation. Many of the plans are funded, with assets backing the obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts, others  
are operated on an unfunded basis. The benefits provided, the approach to funding and the legal basis of the plans reflect their local 
environments. IAS 19 requires that the discount rate for calculating the DBO and service cost is set according to the level of relevant  
market yields on corporate bonds where the market is considered “deep”, or government bonds where it is not. 
The results of the most recent available actuarial valuations for the various plans have been updated to 30 September 2014 in order to 
determine the amounts to be included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The aggregate IAS 19 position is as follows: 
Defined benefit plans 
£ million 
2014  2013 (restated) 
DBO Assets Total DBO  Assets Total 
At 1 October  (4,400) 3,350 (1,050) (4,138) 3,095 (1,043)
Consolidated income statement expense  
Current service cost (49) – (49) (55) – (55)
Past service credit – Spanish free tobacco settlement 52 – 52 2  – 2 
Past service credit – curtailment 69 – 69 3  – 3 
Settlement  – – – 1  – 1 
Cost of termination benefits (32) – (32) (15) – (15)
Net interest (expense)/income on net defined benefit 
(liability)/asset (174) 138 (36) (167) 128 (39)
Administration costs paid from plan assets – (3) (3) –  (2) (2)
Cost recognised in the income statement 1 (105)
Remeasurements  
Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability experience 38 – 38 (5) – (5)
Actuarial loss due to financial assumption changes (202) – (202) (188) – (188)
Actuarial gain/(loss) due to demographic  
assumption changes 22 – 22 (1) – (1)
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included  
in net interest (expense)/income above – 187 187 –  237 237 
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI 45 43
Cash  
Employer contributions – 116 116 –  98 98 
Employee contributions (2) 2 – (2) 2 – 
Benefits paid directly by the company 46 (46) – 47  (47) – 
Benefits paid from plan assets 181 (181) – 171  (171) – 
Net cash 116 98
Other  
Spanish free tobacco settlement 48 – 48 –  – –
Exchange movements 88 (28) 60 (53) 10 (43)
Total other  108 (43)
At 30 September (4,315) 3,535 (780) (4,400) 3,350 (1,050)
During the year, there have been some special events that have impacted the liabilities and the cost of the Group’s retirement  
benefit schemes. 
The announcement of the proposed closure of the Nottingham factory has given rise to a curtailment gain of £55 million and termination costs 
of £25 million. Other redundancies in the United Kingdom and Germany gave rise to termination costs of £7 million. 
We reached an agreement in Spain with around 70 per cent of pensioners who had previously received payments in respect of former 
entitlements to free cigarettes to accept a one-off cash payment in full settlement. This has given rise to a past service credit of £52 million. 
The cash settlement of £48 million was paid at the beginning of October 2014 and the liability was recognised in the balance sheet at  
30 September 2014 in other liabilities. 
In The Netherlands the defined benefit scheme has been replaced by a multi-employer scheme for most employees (which is accounted for 
as a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19, because it is not possible to determine the Group’s share of the plan assets) and by a defined 
contribution plan for some employees. As a consequence of these changes a curtailment gain of £14 million has been recognised. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 
Retirement benefit scheme costs charged to operating profit 
£ million 2014 2013 
Defined benefit (credit)/costs in operating profit (37) 66 
Defined contribution costs in operating profit 19 17 
Total retirement benefit scheme (credit)/costs in operating profit (18) 83 
Split as follows in the consolidated income statement: 
£ million 2014 2013 
Cost of sales 31 35 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 15 28 
Administrative and other expenses (64) 20 
Total retirement benefit scheme (credit)/costs in operating profit (18) 83 
Assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet  
£ million 2014 
2013 
(restated)
Retirement benefit assets 44 5 
Retirement benefit liabilities (824) (1,055)
Net retirement benefit liability (780) (1,050)
Key figures and assumptions used for major plans 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2014  
 
2013  
ITPF RCPP  ITPF RCPP 
Benefit obligation (DBO) 3,066 502   3,086 459 
Fair value of scheme assets  (3,094) –   (2,924) – 
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability (28) 502   162 459 
Current service cost 30 7   32 7 
Employer contributions 48 21   31 22 
Principal actuarial assumptions used (% per annum)   
Discount rate 4.0 2.5   4.3 3.5 
Future salary increases 3.7 3.1   4.8 3.1 
Future pension increases 3.2 2.0   3.3 2.0 
Inflation 3.2 1.9   3.3 2.0 
 
2014  
ITPF  
 
RCPP  
Male Female  Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:   
Member currently aged 65 21.5 22.9   18.9 22.9 
Member currently aged 50 22.8 24.4   20.9 24.8 
 
2013  
ITPF  
 
RCPP  
Male Female  Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:   
Member currently aged 65 21.1 23.0   18.7 22.8 
Member currently aged 50 22.1 24.2   20.7 24.7 
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each territory.  
In particular for the ITPF, SAPS tables are used with various adjustments for different groups of members, reflecting observed experience.  
The largest group of members uses the SAPS All Pensioner Male Amounts table with a 109.8 per cent multiplier. An allowance for 
improvements in longevity is made using the continuous mortality investigation improvement rates with a long-term trend of 1.25 per cent  
per annum. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Sensitivity analysis for key assumption at the end of the reporting period 
Sensitivity analysis is illustrative only and is provided to demonstrate the degree of sensitivity of results to key assumptions. Generally, 
estimates are made by re-performing calculations with one assumption modified and all others held constant. 
% increase in DBO 
2014  
 
2013  
ITPF RCPP  ITPF RCPP 
Discount rate: 0.5% decrease 8.1 8.8   7.6 8.0 
Rate of inflation: 0.5% decrease (6.6) (5.4)  (6.1) (5.0)
One year increase in longevity for a member currently age 65, corresponding 
changes at other ages 3.5 4.5   3.2 4.2 
The sensitivity to the inflation assumption change includes corresponding changes to the future salary increases and future pension increases 
assumptions, but is assumed to be independent of any change to discount rate. 
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent decrease/(increase) in the discount rate at the start of the reporting period would have increased/(decreased) 
the consolidated income statement pension expense by approximately £15 million.  
An approximate split of the major categories of ITPF scheme assets is as follows: 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
2014  
 
2013 (restated) 
Fair value
Percentage of 
ITPF scheme 
assets  Fair value
Percentage of 
ITPF scheme 
assets 
Equities 1,361 44   1,345 46 
Bonds – index linked government 650 21   556 19 
Bonds – corporate and other 495 16   409 14 
Property  402 13   322 11 
Absolute return pooled funds 155 5   263 9 
Other – including derivatives, commodities and cash 31 1   29 1 
 3,094 100   2,924 100 
The majority of the assets are quoted. Absolute return pooled funds are in overseas, non-quoted assets. 
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund investments in financial instruments of 
Imperial Tobacco PLC amounted to £3 million (2013: £3 million). 
The Group has applied amendments made to IAS 19 in November 2013 that relate to the treatment of member contributions to the results 
presented in these financial statements. 
23 Provisions 
£ million 
2014  
Restructuring  Other Total 
At 1 October 2013 222  277 499 
Additional provisions charged to the consolidated income statement 193  34 227 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and other long-term provisions 3  1 4 
Amounts used (70) (50) (120)
Unused amounts reversed (9) (79) (88)
Exchange movements (18) (16) (34)
At 30 September 2014 321  167 488 
Analysed as: 
£ million 2014 2013 
Current 176 92 
Non-current 312 407 
 488 499 
Restructuring provisions relate mainly to our cost optimisation programme (see note 5) and to projects arising from the integration of Imperial 
Tobacco and Altadis, purchased in 2008. These provisions include employee social plans arising from restructuring activity and are expected 
to be used over the next ten years.  
Other provisions principally relate to commercial legal claims and disputes and are expected to be used over a period of up to ten years.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
24 Share Capital 
£ million 2014 2013 
Issued and fully paid 
1,036,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2013: 1,067,942,881) 104 107 
On 6 March 2014, 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled creating the Capital Redemption reserve. 
25 Share Schemes  
The Group operates three types of share-based incentive programmes, designed to incentivise staff and to encourage them to build a stake in 
the Group. 
Share Matching Scheme 
Awards are made to eligible employees who are invited to invest a proportion of their eligible bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares for 
a period of three years, after which additional shares are awarded on a 1:1 ratio. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Awards of shares under the LTIP are made to the Executive Directors and senior executives at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
They vest three years after grant and are subject to performance criteria. 
Sharesave Plan 
Options are granted to eligible employees who participate in a designated savings scheme for a three or five year period. 
Further details of the schemes including additional criteria applying to Directors and some senior executives are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Analysis of charge to the consolidated income statement 
£ million 2014 2013 
Share Matching Scheme 19 16 
Long Term Incentive Plan 1 (2)
Sharesave Plan 2 2 
 22 16 
The awards are predominantly equity settled. The balance sheet liability in respect of cash settled schemes at 30 September 2014 was  
£2 million (2013: £2 million). 
Reconciliation of movements in awards/options 
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated 
2014  
Share 
matching 
awards LTIP awards 
Sharesave 
options
Sharesave 
weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
Outstanding at 1 October 2013 2,723 936  1,737 18.12 
Granted  1,120 320  453 20.40 
Lapsed/cancelled (274) (484) (133) 18.44 
Exercised (861) (3) (479) 16.10 
Outstanding at 30 September 2014 2,708 769  1,578 19.36 
Exercisable at 30 September 2014 – –  46 16.60 
 
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated 
2013  
Share 
matching 
awards LTIP awards 
Sharesave 
options
Sharesave 
weighted average 
exercise 
price 
£
Outstanding at 1 October 2012 2,738 929  1,799 17.31 
Granted  1,119 333  666 18.40 
Lapsed/cancelled (175)(266) (259)18.21 
Exercised (959) (60) (469) 15.36 
Outstanding at 30 September 2013 2,723 936  1,737 18.12 
Exercisable at 30 September 2013 – 22  72 15.67 
The weighted average Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share price at the date of exercise of awards and options was £23.60 (2013: £23.27). 
The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted during the year was £4.28 (2013: £2.68). 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Summary of awards/options outstanding at 30 September 2014 
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated 
Number of 
awards/options 
outstanding 
Vesting period 
remaining in 
months
Exercise price 
of options 
outstanding 
£
Share Matching Scheme  
2012 661  4 n/a 
2013 949  16 n/a 
2014 1,098  28 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 2,708  
  
Long Term Incentive Plan  
2012 214  1 n/a 
2013 239  14 n/a 
2014 316  25 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 769  
  
Sharesave Plan  
2009 10  – 12.54 
2010 39  10 15.63 
2011 73  1 17.80 
2012 404  16 20.45 
2013 604  24 18.40 
2014 448  34 20.40 
Total options outstanding 1,578  
The vesting period is the period between the grant of awards or options and the earliest date on which they are exercisable. The vesting 
period remaining and the exercise price of options outstanding are weighted averages. Participants in the Sharesave Plan have six months 
from the maturity date to exercise their option. Participants in the LTIP have seven years from the end of the vesting period to exercise  
their option.  
Pricing  
For the purposes of valuing options to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used  
for the Share Matching Scheme and Sharesave Plan. A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 2014 and 2013  
is as follows. 
2014  
 
2013  
Share matching Sharesave  Share matching Sharesave 
Risk-free interest rate % 1.5 0.4-1.5   0.5 0.6-1.2 
Volatility (based on 3 or 5 year history) % 22 22.5-23.0   18.0 10.1-23.0 
Expected lives of options granted years 3 3   3 3-5 
Dividend yield % 5.1 5.1   4.4 4.4 
Fair value £ 21.88 4.18-4.52   20.32 2.22-4.61 
Share price used to determine exercise price £ 25.50 25.50   23.18 23.00 
Exercise price £ n/a 20.40   n/a 18.40 
Market conditions were incorporated into the Monte Carlo method used in determining the fair value of LTIP awards at grant date. 
Assumptions in 2014 and 2013 are given in the following table. 
% 2014 2013 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 18 18 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 5.1 4.4 
Share price volatility of the tobacco and alcohol comparator group 14-37 14-29 
Share price volatility of the FTSE 100 comparator group n/a 15-50 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 35 40 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the FTSE 100 comparator group n/a 40 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
25 Share Schemes continued 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts 
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust 
(the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise and vesting of 
options and awards. The purchase of shares by the Trusts has been financed by a gift of £19.2 million (2013: £19.2 million) and an interest 
free loan of £181.9 million (2013: £181.9 million). In addition the Group has gifted treasury shares to the Trusts. None of the Trusts’ shares has 
been allocated to employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2014. All finance costs and administration expenses connected with 
the Trusts are charged to the consolidated income statement as they accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares 
held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share. 
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 
Millions of shares  2014 2013 
At 1 October 3.3 4.1 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1.1) (1.2)
Gift of treasury shares 2.0 0.4 
At 30 September 4.2 3.3 
The shares in the Trusts are accounted for on a first in first out basis and comprise 0.3 million (2013: 0.8 million) shares acquired in the open 
market at a cost of £7.8 million (2013: £16.7 million) and 3.9 million (2013: 2.5 million) treasury shares gifted to the Trusts by the Group, of 
which 2.0 million were gifted in this financial year (2013: 0.4 million). 
26 Treasury Shares 
In 2011, the Group recommenced its share buyback programme at the rate of around £500 million per annum as an efficient means of 
returning surplus funds to shareholders. Shares purchased under the buyback programme are retained in issue and represent a deduction 
from equity attributable to owners of the parent (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). During 2014 the Group purchased 
14,163,000 shares under the programme (2013: 21,287,000) at a cost of £341 million (2013: £500 million) and cancelled 31,942,881 shares. 
The share buyback programme was suspended on 15 July 2014. 
Millions of shares  2014 2013 
At 1 October 98.7 77.8 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (2.0) (0.4)
Purchase of treasury shares 14.1 21.3 
Cancellation of treasury shares (31.9) – 
At 30 September 78.9 98.7 
Percentage of issued share capital 7.6 9.2 
27 Commitments 
Capital commitments 
£ million 2014 2013 
Contracted but not provided for: 
Property, plant and equipment and software 177 159 
Operating lease commitments 
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due: 
£ million 2014 2013 
Property 
Within one year 37 35 
Between one and five years 86 78 
Beyond five years 29 18 
 152 131 
28 Legal Proceedings 
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health related 
effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously 
contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions will not 
have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash flow or financial condition of the Group. Consequently, the Group has 
not provided for any amounts in respect of these cases in the financial statements. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
29 Acquisitions 
In July 2013, the Group purchased the sales and distribution business of our former agent in Cambodia, for a total consideration £41 million, 
of which £6 million was deferred until 2014. This gave rise to goodwill of £41 million, largely representing the value of the sales force in place. 
In July 2014, the Group entered into a purchase agreement with Reynolds American Inc. for the acquisition of assets, including a portfolio of 
US brands, plus the national sales force, offices and production facilities currently owned by Lorillard Inc. The transaction is subject to the 
acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds and requires US anti-trust and shareholder approvals. The approval processes are likely to take a minimum 
of six to nine months. If approved, the assets are to be acquired for cash consideration of $7.1 billion. 
Costs of £13 million were incurred in 2014 in relation to the transaction, and have been excluded from our adjusted results in line with our 
accounting policy. 
30 Net Debt 
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, and derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows: 
£ million 
Cash and 
cash 
equivalents
Current 
borrowings
Non-current 
borrowings 
Derivative 
financial 
instruments Total 
At 1 October 2013 1,809 (3,276) (7,858) (193) (9,518)
Cash flow (385) 2,706 (1,830) 121 612 
Accretion of interest  – 31 (39) – (8)
Change in fair values  – – –  24 24 
Exchange movements 7 71 263  – 341 
At 30 September 2014 1,431 (468) (9,464) (48) (8,549)
Analysis by denomination currency 
£ million 
2014  
GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 247 414 342  428 1,431 
Total borrowings (3,870) (4,666) (1,396) – (9,932)
 (3,623) (4,252) (1,054) 428 (8,501)
Effect of cross currency swaps 2,691 (2,661) –  – 30 
 (932) (6,913) (1,054) 428 (8,471)
Derivative financial instruments  (78)
Net debt  (8,549)
 
£ million 
2013  
GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 153 1,114 26  516 1,809 
Total borrowings (3,450) (6,275) (1,399) (10) (11,134)
 (3,297) (5,161) (1,373) 506 (9,325)
Effect of cross currency swaps 1,650 (1,650) –  – – 
 (1,647) (6,811) (1,373) 506 (9,325)
Derivative financial instruments  (193)
Net debt  (9,518)
Adjusted net debt 
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges. 
£ million 2014 2013 
Reported net debt (8,549) (9,518)
Accrued interest 280 321 
Fair value of derivatives providing commercial hedges 134 99 
Adjusted net debt (8,135) (9,098)
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 
£ million 2014 2013 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (385) 1,323 
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments 121 28 
Increase in borrowings (2,324) (4,884)
Repayment of borrowings 3,200 3,443 
Repayment of finance leases – 20 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 612 (70)
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative financial instruments 16 (246)
Exchange movements 341 (237)
Movement in net debt during the year 969 (553)
Opening net debt (9,518) (8,965)
Closing net debt (8,549) (9,518)
32 Changes in Non-controlling Interests 
In July 2014 the Group completed the IPO of the Logistics business, with 30% of the shares of Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista 
Holdings SA being listed on Spanish stock exchanges. This increased non-controlling interest by £363 million. Sales proceeds were  
€518 million. Net proceeds after fees and costs were £395 million and were used to reduce the Group’s debt. A gain of £32 million was 
recognised in equity.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
Report on the Parent Company  
Financial Statements 
Our Opinion  
In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs 
as at 30 September 2014; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
What We Have Audited 
The Parent Company financial statements (the “financial statements”), 
which are prepared by Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, comprise: 
– the Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2014; and 
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have 
been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 
(“Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited. 
What an Audit of Financial Statements Involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK and Ireland)”). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:  
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied  
and adequately disclosed;  
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and  
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinions on Other Matters Prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
– the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006. 
Other Matters on Which We are Required 
to Report by Exception 
Adequacy of Accounting Records and Information and 
Explanations Received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
– the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ Remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.  
Other Information in the Annual Report  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the Financial 
Statements and the Audit  
Our Responsibilities and Those of the Directors  
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out in the Directors’ Report, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
Other Matter 
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2014. 
 
John Maitland (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Bristol  
4 November 2014  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC BALANCE SHEET
at 30 September
£ million Notes  2014 2013 
Fixed assets  
Investments  iii  7,968 7,968 
  
Current liabilities  
Cash at bank and in hand  (1) (1)
  
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year iv  (163) (107)
Net current liabilities  (164) (108)
Net assets  7,804 7,860 
  
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital v  104 107 
Capital redemption reserve vi  3 – 
Share premium account vi  5,833 5,833 
Profit and loss account vi  1,864 1,920 
Total shareholders’ funds  7,804 7,860 
The financial statements on pages 116 to 119 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 November 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
   
Mark Williamson   Oliver Tant 
Chairman    Director  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
i Accounting Policies 
Basis of Preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention, the Companies 
Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account has been presented for the Company.  
As permitted by FRS 29, the Company has elected not to present FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in the notes to its individual 
financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented in the consolidated financial statements. As permitted by FRS 8 Related  
Party Disclosures the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.  
The principal accounting policies are set out below. 
Investments 
Investments comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment. 
Dividends 
Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders whereas interim 
dividends payable are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid. Dividends receivable are recognised as an asset when they 
are approved. 
Financial Instruments 
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as cash and debtors. Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated  
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision  
for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and 
the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the profit and loss account. For interest-bearing assets, the carrying 
value includes accrued interest receivable. 
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
Treasury Shares 
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity until the shares are reissued or disposed of. When such shares are 
subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects, increases shareholders’ funds. When such shares are cancelled they are transferred to the capital redemption reserve. 
ii Dividends 
Dividend per share in respect of financial year 
Pence 2014  2013 2012 
Interim 38.8  35.2 31.7 
Final 89.3  81.2 73.9 
Total 128.1  116.4 105.6 
Interim dividends are paid and recognised in the second half of the year, and final dividends in respect of a year are paid and recognised in the 
following financial period. 
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year 
£ million 2014 2013 
Final dividend paid in the period in respect of previous financial year 779 724 
Interim dividend 370 341 
 1,149 1,065 
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2014 of 89.3p per share amounts to a proposed final dividend payment of 
£851 million based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2014, and is subject to shareholder approval. If approved, 
the total dividend paid in respect of 2014 will be £1,221 million (2013: £1,120 million).  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued
iii Investments 
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited 
£ million 2014 2013 
At 1 October  7,968 4,225 
Additions – 3,743 
At 30 September 7,968 7,968 
During 2013 the Company increased its investment in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited as part of a legal entity reorganisation in the 
normal course of business.  
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
A list of the principal subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 120 to 122. 
iv Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year  
£ million 2014 2013 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 163 107 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date for repayment and are repayable on demand. 
v Called Up Share Capital 
£ million 2014 2013 
Issued and fully paid 
1,036,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2013: 1,067,942,881) 104 107 
On 6 March 2014, 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled creating the Capital Redemption reserve. 
vi Reserves 
£ million 
Share  
premium  
account 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Profit 
and loss 
account
At 1 October 2013 5,833  – 1,920 
Profit for the year –  – 1,434 
Dividends –  – (1,149)
Purchase of own shares –  – (341)
Cancellation of treasury shares –  3 – 
At 30 September 2014 5,833  3 1,864 
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented. The profit 
attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the financial statements of the Company, is £1,434 million (2013: £1,718 million). This is after 
charging an audit fee of £1.0 million (2013: £1.0 million). 
Treasury shares 
In 2011, the Company recommenced its share buyback programme at the rate of around £500 million per annum as an efficient means of 
returning surplus funds to shareholders. Shares purchased under the buyback programme are retained in issue and represent a deduction 
from shareholders’ funds. During 2014 the Company purchased 14,163,000 shares under the programme (2013: 21,287,000) at a cost of 
£341 million (2013: £500 million), and on 6 March 2014 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled, creating a capital redemption 
reserve. The share buyback programme was suspended on 15 July 2014. 
Millions of shares  2014 2013 
At 1 October 98.7 77.8 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts (2.0) (0.4)
Purchase of treasury shares 14.1 21.3 
Cancellation of treasury shares (31.9) – 
At 30 September 78.9 98.7 
Percentage of issued share capital 7.6 9.2 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
vii Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 
£ million 2014 2013 
Profit for the year 1,434 1,718 
Dividends (1,149) (1,065)
Purchase of own shares (341) (500)
Movements in total shareholders’ funds (56) 153 
Opening total shareholders’ funds 7,860 7,707 
Closing total shareholders’ funds 7,804 7,860 
viii Guarantees 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary undertakings, including 
various Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2014, the contingent liability totalled £9,965 million (2013: £11,238 million). 
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2014 
and which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not file separate financial statements with the Chamber 
of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued declarations to assume any and all liabilities for any and all 
debts of the Dutch subsidiaries. 
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2014. 
The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, have therefore availed themselves of the exemption 
provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect of documents required to be attached to the annual returns 
for such companies. 
The Directors have assessed the fair value of the above guarantees and do not consider them to be material. They have therefore not been 
recognised on the balance sheet. 
ix Related Party Disclosures 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report. These disclosures form part of the 
financial statements.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120
PRINCIPAL UNDERTAKINGS
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group which principally affect the figures shown, which are unlisted unless otherwise 
indicated, are shown below.  
Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned 
Name Principal activity 
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies 
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK 
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company 
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned 
Name Country of incorporation  Principal activity 
Altadis SAU Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products  
in Spain 
Altadis Canaries SAU Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands 
Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU Spain Finance company 
Altadis Middle East Fzco United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East 
Altadis USA Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United States  
of America 
Commonwealth-Altadis Inc United States of America Sales and distribution of tobacco products in the United States  
of America 
Commonwealth Brands Inc United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the  
United States of America 
Ets L Lacroix Fils NV Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium 
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia 
Imperial Tobacco China Limited China Marketing of tobacco products in China 
Imperial Tobacco CR sro Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic 
Imperial Tobacco Finance France SAS  France Finance company 
Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland 
Imperial Tobacco Hellas SA Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece 
Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl Italy Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Italy 
Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszäg 
Dohänyforgalmazö Kft Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary 
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar Republic of Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland 
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand 
Imperial Tobacco Norway AS Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway 
Imperial Tobacco Polska SA Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland 
Imperial Tobacco Polska  
Manufacturing SA Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 
Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia 
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck 
Sanayi ve Ticaret AS Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey 
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia AS Slovak Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic 
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Taiwan 
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing 
Company Limited Taiwan Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Incorporated overseas, wholly owned continued 
Name Country of incorporation  Principal activity 
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis  
ve Pazarlama AS Turkey Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey 
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine 
OOO Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 
ZAO Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl CJSC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 
John Player & Sons Limited Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland 
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany 
Skruf Snus AB Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Sweden 
Société Marocaine des Tabacs SA Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products  
in Morocco 
Société Nationale d’Exploitation 
Industrielle des Tabacs et Allumettes SAS 
France Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in France  
and export of tobacco products 
Supergroup SAS France Wholesale distribution in France 
Tobaccor SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the 
manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Africa 
Tobacna Ljubljana doo Slovenia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia 
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland BV Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in  
the Netherlands 
800 JR Cigar Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the sale  
of cigars in the United States of America 
Incorporated overseas, partly owned 
Name Country of incorporation  Principal activity 
Percentage 
owned
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8
Imperial Tobacco TKS ad Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Macedonia 99.1
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista Holdings SA 
Spain Holding investments in subsidiary undertakings  
70.0
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista SAU 
Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services  
in Spain 70.0
Logista France SAS France Distribution of tobacco products in France 70.0
Logista Italia SpA Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy 70.0
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in Kyrgyzstan 98.6
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in the Ivory Coast 74.1
Incorporated overseas, joint ventures 
Name Country of incorporation  Principal activity 
Percentage 
owned
Altabana SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in 
the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars 50.0
Corporación Habanos SA Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122
PRINCIPAL UNDERTAKINGS continued
Partnerships 
The Group also owns the following partnerships: 
Name Country Principal activity 
Imperial Tobacco (EFKA)  
GmbH & Co KG 
Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany 
Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257,  
D-78636 Trossingen, Germany 
Imperial Tobacco Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kazakhstan 
Principal place of business: Tole bi 101, corner of str. Baitursynova 
Business center “Dalich”, 9th floor, block C and D, 050012 Almaty, 
Kazakhstan 
The subsidiaries listed above were held throughout the year.  
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above. With the exception of Imperial 
Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.  
A full list of undertakings is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.  
The percentage of issued share capital held by the immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same except for 
Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by a number of Group 
companies, and Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista SAU, Logista France SAS, and Logista Italia SpA are 100 per cent owned 
subsidiaries of Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista Holdings SA, which is itself 70 per cent owned by Altadis SAU. 
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA is listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.  
Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista Holdings SA is listed on Spanish stock exchanges. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Registered Office 
121 Winterstoke Road 
Bristol BS3 2LL 
+44 (0)117 963 6636 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
0871 384 2037* 
+44 (0)121 415 7009 
0871 384 2255* text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 
* Calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding 
UK public holidays. 
ADR Depositary 
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders 
Citibank Shareholder Services 
PO Box 43077 
Providence, RI 02940-3077 
USA 
Toll-free number in the USA: 1-877-CITI-ADR (1-877-248-4237) 
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com 
Stockbrokers 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
One Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4QJ 
+44 (0)20 7888 8000 
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 
20 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4AD 
+44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
31 Great George Street 
Bristol BS1 5QD 
Lawyers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD 
Ashurst LLP 
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued
Financial Calendar and Dividends 
Half year results are expected to be announced in May 2015 and the full year’s results in November 2015. 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 28 January 2015 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre.  
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report. 
Dividends are generally paid in August and February. Payment of the 2014 final dividend, if approved, will be on 17 February 2015  
to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 January 2015. The associated ex dividend date will be  
15 January 2015. 
We are moving to quarterly dividend payments with effect from financial year 2015. The first two quarters will be announced with our half year 
results in May 2015 and will be paid in June and September. The third and fourth dividends will be announced in November 2015 and paid in 
December and, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, in March 2016. 
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable 
from our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at the address shown. 
Share Dealing Service 
Our Registrars offer Shareview Dealing, a service which allows you to buy or sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares if you are a  
UK resident. You can deal on the internet or by phone. Log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call them on 08456 037 037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday for more information about this service. If you wish to sell your Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary 
shares, you will need your shareholder reference number which you can find on your share certificate. 
Individual Savings Account 
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Investment 
Account where they can hold their Imperial Tobacco Group ordinary shares electronically. The ISA and Investment Account are operated by 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Commission starts from £12.50 and £1.75 respectively for the sale and purchase of shares. 
For a brochure or to apply for an ISA or Investment Account go online to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti on 0845 300 0430*.  
* Calls to this number will be charged at local rate from a BT landline. Mobile and other providers’ charges may vary. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy  
further Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti on 0871 384 2268*  
(+44 (0)121 415 7173) or online at www.shareview.co.uk. 
* Calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.  
American Depositary Receipt Facility 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the OTCQX International Premier platform in the form of American Depositary 
Shares (ADSs) using the symbol ‘ITYBY’. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. The ADS facility is 
administered by Citibank, N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown. 
Website 
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com. 
Equiniti also offers a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices 
and dividend details and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk.   Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Print Speed, a paper sourced from 
well-managed, responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp 
used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine 
Free (ECF) process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.  Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
121 Winterstoke Road
Bristol BS3 2LL
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
