 UNDERSTANDING INFORMA   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
UNDERSTANDING 
INFORMA
Annual Report 
and Financial 
Statements 2014 Whilst continuing to deliver 
positive results, 2014 was a 
year of Measured Change. 
This report reviews those 
changes and explains what 
Informa is and does today.
We outline the Group divisional 
structure p8, Group strategy p12, 
and explain how our business 
model creates value p19.
We highlight how we measure 
performance p60, manage  
risk p62 and celebrate talent 
and entrepreneurialism.
STRATEGIC REPORT
2 About us
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Highlights of the year
8 Informa at a glance
12 Group Chief Executive’s Review
19 Business model
20 Understanding our Divisions
 23 Academic Publishing
 29 Business Intelligence
 35 Global Exhibitions
 41 Knowledge & Networking
 47 Global Support
52 Business review
56 Financial review
60 Key performance indicators
62 Principal risk factors
66 Corporate responsibility
GOVERNANCE
70 Board of Directors
72 Advisers
73 Directors’ Report
78 Corporate Governance Statement
84 Nomination Committee Report
86 Audit Committee Report
90 Remuneration Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108 Independent auditor’s report
112 Consolidated Income Statement
113 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
114 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
115 Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position
116 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
117 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
186 Company Balance Sheet
187 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
193 Five Year Summary
COMPANY INFORMATION
194 Legal notice
195 Shareholder information CONNECTION.  
INSIGHT . ADVANTAGE.
Informa’s global portfolio of knowledge, event and information-
based businesses connects people, providing unrivalled access to 
high quality, specialist intelligence and links across commercial, 
professional and academic communities.
Our content and connectivity deliver insights, networks and 
competitive advantage, enabling individuals, organisations and 
communities to connect, work smarter and achieve their goals. Our ACADEMIC PUBLISHING Division 
publishes specialist academic books 
and journals. We produce unique, 
trusted content by expert authors, 
spreading knowledge and promoting 
discovery globally. We aim to broaden 
thinking and advance understanding, 
providing academics and professionals 
with a platform to share ideas and 
realise their individual potential.
p.23
ABOUT US
WHO WE ARE
Informa operates at the heart of the Knowledge 
and Information Economy. It is one of the world’s 
leading business intelligence, academic publishing, 
knowledge and events businesses. With more than 
6,500 employees globally, it has a presence in 
all major geographies, including North America, 
South America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East 
and Africa.
WHAT WE DO
Informa’s global portfolio of knowledge, event and 
information-based businesses connects people, 
providing unrivalled access to high quality, 
specialist intelligence and links across commercial, 
professional and academic communities. At a 
Group level we provide the stewardship, strategy 
and structure that enable these businesses to 
focus on being the very best they can be.
In BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE we offer 
expert analysis of data and information 
that delivers unique insights to create 
competitive advantage. Across five core 
industry sectors, we help our customers 
identify new opportunities, understand 
and mitigate risk and make better 
decisions faster.
p.29
www.informa.com
2 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 WHY INVEST?
Informa has strong Brands that are well positioned 
in attractive markets, providing a framework for 
delivering consistent returns. Our business model 
is robust and highly cash generative, allowing 
us to balance organic investment with targeted 
acquisitions and the payment of dividends to 
shareholders. This is reflected in the commitment 
to grow annual dividends by a minimum of 2% per 
annum throughout the period of the 2014-2017 
Growth Acceleration Plan.
OUR STRATEGY
The 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan is 
Informa’s strategy to accelerate growth and 
improve the returns generated across all four 
Operating Divisions. It is referred to throughout 
this report and covers six key areas:
Operating structure
Management model
Portfolio management
Acquisition strategy
Investment
Funding 
In GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS we 
connect Groups seeking to identify 
new contacts, develop relationships, 
improve and expand their business. 
We bring communities together to 
share information, gain inspiration 
and secure new business, creating 
platforms for organisations to build 
profitable alliances, create value 
and drive commercial success.
p.35
In KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING, we 
nurture, build and connect communities 
through the exchange of insights and 
strategic thinking. We create platforms 
online and through face-to-face events 
that facilitate learning and networking, 
helping people build knowledge, work 
smarter and become leaders in their field.
p.41
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 3
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  hen I introduced our last Annual Report, 
I marked my fifth year as your Non-
Executive Chairman by highlighting the 
significant leadership change at Informa. 
Twelve months on, the “wind of change” 
has been felt in almost every corner of 
the Company. 
This change has been led by Stephen A. Carter, who became 
your Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2014. When 
Stephen was appointed, his mandate from the Board was 
to manage the transition effectively and seek to position the 
Group to ensure we are extracting full value from the attractive 
markets in which we operate. 
I am pleased to report solid progress following an initial 
period of Measured Change, which led in mid-2014 to the 
announcement of the Growth Acceleration Plan. This plan, 
which encapsulates the Group strategy through to 2017 , 
is explained in detail within this Strategic Report, including 
reviews of each of our Operating Divisions. 
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
In the last financial year, basic earnings per share rose to 40.3p, 
and the Board recommended a final dividend of 12.9p, lifting 
the total dividend per share by 2% to 19.3p (2013: 18.9p). This 
dividend reflects the Board’s confidence in the strategy and 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
W
growth plan put in place by Stephen and his strengthened 
management team.
Your new management team has successfully launched and 
begun to implement a new growth strategy, whilst maintaining 
a disciplined operational focus in our balanced portfolio of 
businesses. This has resulted in strong performances in two 
of our four Operating Divisions, and renewed focus on growth 
and reorganisation at the two remaining business areas. 
Global Exhibitions was the highlight, as organic revenue 
and profits rose strongly in a healthy Exhibitions market. 
This performance was enhanced by a number of targeted 
acquisitions, including the Division’s first major foray into the 
important US market. This helps to lift the annualised revenue 
of Global Exhibitions to around £250m annually, reinforcing 
its position as one of the leading Exhibition groups globally.
The Academic Publishing Division also performed well, 
delivering consistent organic growth in a benign budgetary 
environment. Its success is a testament to the strength of our 
academic Brands and our differentiated approach to authors 
and customers. Towards the end of the year, we transferred 
our Medical Journals business from Business Intelligence 
to Academic Publishing. This will add valuable scale to our 
journal portfolio and generate cost savings, and should enable 
us to target the institutional market with its products much 
more effectively.
www.informa.com
4 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The Business Intelligence and Knowledge & Networking 
Divisions had a more difficult year. Some key end markets 
and geographies remain challenging but we also recognised 
a need to make changes to the operating structure and focus 
of these businesses. This is already under way, following the 
appointment of new Divisional Management Teams in 2014, 
and I have confidence that we will see steady operational 
progress by both businesses through 2015.
Your Board also supports the greater focus within our “fifth” 
Division, Global Support. This Division plays an increasingly 
important role in generating value across the Group. Management 
worked hard to improve our Shared Services function in 2014, 
consolidating the number of geographic hubs operated by 
the Company and delivering back-office efficiencies. 
STRATEGY – 2014–2017 GROWTH 
ACCELERATION PLAN
The Board welcomes the commitment to accelerate growth 
across the Group. The good long-term growth prospects of 
Informa’s markets within the wider Knowledge and Information 
Economy give us confidence we can deliver on this ambition.
Our growth priorities were identified as part of an in-depth 
review led by Stephen and his senior team shortly after he 
became Group Chief Executive in January 2014. This review’s 
conclusions provided the blueprint for the 2014–2017 Growth 
Acceleration Plan, a new Group strategy announced in July. 
I am pleased that the plan will build on our existing strengths 
and align the Group more closely to customers. As you will 
read elsewhere in this report, the Growth Acceleration Plan 
is a comprehensive programme, addressing the operating 
structure, management, portfolio discipline, acquisition strategy 
and funding of the Group. It includes significant investment 
into a range of growth initiatives identified across the Group.
GOVERNANCE
Informa is committed to the highest standards of governance. 
The Corporate Governance Statement (pages 78 to 83) outlines 
these standards. 
At Board level, we added further breadth and depth of 
experience in 2014 with the appointment of several new 
Non-Executive Directors. This included Gareth Bullock, former 
Group Executive Director at Standard Chartered, who was 
also appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
TALENT AND CULTURE
As we invest in various initiatives as part of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan and as the shape of the Group evolves, 
one constant is the value of our people. It might be a cliché, 
but we are a people business. All our achievements are 
dependent on the hard work and commitment of our teams 
around the globe. 
Our Group has a wide array of talented individuals, and we will 
invest continually in developing and strengthening this most 
valuable of resources. In 2014, Tom Moloney was appointed to 
the new post of Director of Talent & Transformation. Tom, the 
former Chief Executive of media group EMAP , has significant 
experience in change management. His appointment reflects 
the importance we place on this aspect of the business.
With people comes culture. At Informa, we believe our culture 
is unique, reflecting the value we place on our staff and the 
freedom we provide them to innovate, develop and succeed. 
This extends to our belief in a balanced and inclusive working 
environment, where everyone has an equal opportunity to 
participate and flourish. For example, the latest Group statistics 
show that more than half of our employees are female (57% in 
2014 and 2013). 
In terms of remuneration, the role of your Board Remuneration 
Committee is to ensure the right balance between short and 
long-term rewards. These rewards are linked to value creation 
and delivery against our business strategy. Detailed information 
on our remuneration approach can be found on pages 90 to 107 .
At Informa, our culture also reflects a strong sense of 
responsibility towards community and the environment, 
something encapsulated in our Group Sustainability Strategy. 
This is an area we constantly re-evaluate to see how we can 
do more. Later in 2015 we are planning to re-launch this 
programme, in a bid to focus our efforts and more closely align 
our activities with the core skills and capabilities of the Group.
OUTLOOK
Informa can look forward to the year ahead with confidence. 
Our robust and disciplined performance in 2014, combined 
with a strengthened management team and simplified 
operating model, gives us belief that we can continue to deliver 
on market expectations whilst investing in the various growth 
initiatives identified across the Group, as part of the broader 
Growth Acceleration Plan strategy. 
This belief is reflected in the commitment of the Board to raise 
the annual dividend by a minimum of 2% through the period 
of the Growth Acceleration Plan. This pledge gives strong 
visibility to shareholders as we invest in the future growth of 
the business. This investment in strengthening the business, 
the reorganisation launched in 2014 and the accelerated 
momentum of change will, I am confident, create further 
value for all our stakeholders in 2015. 
DEREK MAPP  
CHAIRMAN
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 5
www.informa.com
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT REVENUE 
BY REGION £M
ASSETS 
BY REGION £M
STRATEGIC REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Group revenue increased to £1,137m (2013: £1,130m
1
)
Adjusted operating profit consistent at £334.1m 
(2013: £334.7m
1
)
Adjusted diluted EPS ahead at 40.3p (2013: 40.1p)
Free cash flow strong at £232.5m (2013: £207.8m
1
)
Total dividend per share increased by 2% to 19.3p; 
final dividend of 12.9p (2013: 18.9p)
Non-cash impairment of £219m leads to statutory 
pre-tax loss of £31.2m (2013: £115.4m profit
1
)
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan launched 
and implementation under way
Strong organic growth in Global Exhibitions 
with revenues up 18.9%; expanding US presence
Differentiated operating model delivering consistent 
organic growth in Academic Publishing 
Organic decline demands increased market 
and customer focus in Business Intelligence
New management at Knowledge & Networking 
pursuing community engagement model
Full portfolio review leads to exit from certain 
conference businesses and a full provision 
for our Chinese Pharmaceutical loans
Balance sheet write down of underperforming 
Datamonitor information assets acquired in 2007
Refinanced balance sheet; net debt/EBITDA ratio 
within target range of 2.0 to 2.5 times
 
United Kingdom £149.0m 
 
North America £416.4m 
 
Continental Europe £235.1m 
 
Rest of world £336.5m
 
United Kingdom  £1,130.2m 
 
North America  £1,334.6m 
 
Continental Europe £77.3m 
 
Rest of world £342.4m
www.informa.com
6 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£1,137.0m +0.6%£334.1m -0.2%
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
1,111.1
1,096.1
1,140.0
1,130.0
1,137.0
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
330.5
290.0
313.3
334.7
334.1
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS DIVIDEND PER SHARE
40.3p +0.5%19.3p +2.1%
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
37.6
32.8
36.0
40.1
40.3
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
18.5
14.0
16.8
18.9
19.3
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 7
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT
INFORMA AT A GLANCE
ACADEMIC  
PUBLISHING 
p.23
BUSINESS  
INTELLIGENCE 
p.29
GLOBAL  
EXHIBITIONS 
p.35
KNOWLEDGE &  
NETWORKING 
p.41
WHAT IT DOES
The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist books and journals. 
Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it is recognised internationally as 
one of the world’s leading education publishers through its five leading 
imprints: Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and 
Cogent OA. It has a portfolio of more than 100,000 book titles and 2,100 
journals available in both print and digital formats, across subject areas 
within Humanities and Social Sciences, and Science, Technology 
and Medicine. 
WHAT IT DOES
The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data, 
intelligence and insight to businesses, helping them make better 
decisions, gain competitive advantage and enhance return on 
investment. It has a portfolio of more than 400 digital subscription 
products, providing critical intelligence to niche communities within 
five core industry verticals: Pharma & Healthcare, Finance, Maritime 
& Law, Technology/Media/Telecoms and Agriculture/Food.
WHAT IT DOES
The Global Exhibitions Division organises transaction-oriented Exhibitions 
and trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers across different 
industries and communities with a powerful platform to meet face to face, 
build relationships and conduct business. Informa has a portfolio of over 150 
Exhibitions, serving a number of core verticals, including Health & Nutrition, 
Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture.
WHAT IT DOES
The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all the Group’s 
training, learning, conference, advisory and congress businesses. 
It organises content-driven events and programmes that provide a 
platform for communities to meet, network and share knowledge. 
It runs around 3,000 conferences and training events across the 
globe each year, covering a range of subject areas, but with a 
particular focus on Life Sciences, Technology/Media/Telecoms  
(“TMT”)and Finance.
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
The Molecular Biology of the Cell, Journal of Natural History, Applied 
Economics, Journal of Modern Optics, CMRO – Current Medical 
Research & Opinion
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
Lloyd’s List, Citeline, Datamonitor Healthcare, Scrip, Sagient, Ovum, 
Informa Global Markets, EPFR Global
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
Arab Health, Middle East Electricity, Cityscape Global, China Beauty Expo, 
Vitafoods, World of Concrete, Fan Expo
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
SuperReturn, Fund Forum, Bio-Europe, AfricaCom, Broadband World 
Series, TV Connect
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
36%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
25%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
17%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
22%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Subscriptions 53%
 Copy sales 47%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Subscriptions 87%
 Copy sales 9%
 Advertising 4%
 REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Exhibitors 79%
 Attendees 10%
 Sponsorship 8%
 Advertising 3%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Attendees 60%
 Sponsorship 23%
 Exhibitors 15%
 Advertising 2%
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
3.0% organic revenue growth
The number of book titles available passed 100,000
Expansion of open access offering through Cogent OA
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Appointment of Patrick Martell as Divisional Chief Executive 
and creation of senior management team
Simplified operating structure via reorganisation into five  
market-facing verticals
Targeted investment programme created following in-depth review
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Strong organic revenue growth, + 18.9% year-on-year
Expansion into the US, the single largest Exhibitions market globally
Strengthened position in Real Estate & Construction, Health & Nutrition, 
and Pop Culture
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Appointment of Andrew Mullins as Divisional Chief Executive 
and creation of senior management team
Strong performance in Life Sciences and large-scale Finance events
US West Coast TMT operation established and major Internet of 
Things event launched
KEY STRATEGIES
Continued growth at, or ahead of, the academic market
Increase revenue from developing markets
Continued expansion of open access offering 
KEY STRATEGIES
Positive organic revenue growth run rate by end 2016
Immediate focus on sales and subscription management
Investment in product innovation and format flexibility
KEY STRATEGIES
Continued growth ahead of the Exhibitions market
Balance fast-growth emerging markets exposure with more mature markets
Enhance customer experience through engagement and technology
KEY STRATEGIES
Positive organic revenue growth run rate by end 2015
Migrate from a spot transaction to community engagement model
Harness technology to drive differentiation in products and marketing
UNDERPINNED BY:
GLOBAL SUPPORT 
p.47
The team behind the teams, working effectively to provide the strategy, 
stewardship and structure that enable our Operating Divisions to focus 
on being the very best they can be.
 Strategy & Planning
Talent & Transformation
Finance, Tax & Treasury
Technology
Capital Allocation
Communications
Legal
Intellectual Property
www.informa.com
8 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 ACADEMIC  
PUBLISHING 
p.23
BUSINESS  
INTELLIGENCE 
p.29
GLOBAL  
EXHIBITIONS 
p.35
KNOWLEDGE &  
NETWORKING 
p.41
WHAT IT DOES
The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist books and journals. 
Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it is recognised internationally as 
one of the world’s leading education publishers through its five leading 
imprints: Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and 
Cogent OA. It has a portfolio of more than 100,000 book titles and 2,100 
journals available in both print and digital formats, across subject areas 
within Humanities and Social Sciences, and Science, Technology 
and Medicine. 
WHAT IT DOES
The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data, 
intelligence and insight to businesses, helping them make better 
decisions, gain competitive advantage and enhance return on 
investment. It has a portfolio of more than 400 digital subscription 
products, providing critical intelligence to niche communities within 
five core industry verticals: Pharma & Healthcare, Finance, Maritime 
& Law, Technology/Media/Telecoms and Agriculture/Food.
WHAT IT DOES
The Global Exhibitions Division organises transaction-oriented Exhibitions 
and trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers across different 
industries and communities with a powerful platform to meet face to face, 
build relationships and conduct business. Informa has a portfolio of over 150 
Exhibitions, serving a number of core verticals, including Health & Nutrition, 
Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture.
WHAT IT DOES
The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all the Group’s 
training, learning, conference, advisory and congress businesses. 
It organises content-driven events and programmes that provide a 
platform for communities to meet, network and share knowledge. 
It runs around 3,000 conferences and training events across the 
globe each year, covering a range of subject areas, but with a 
particular focus on Life Sciences, Technology/Media/Telecoms  
(“TMT”)and Finance.
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
The Molecular Biology of the Cell, Journal of Natural History, Applied 
Economics, Journal of Modern Optics, CMRO – Current Medical 
Research & Opinion
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
Lloyd’s List, Citeline, Datamonitor Healthcare, Scrip, Sagient, Ovum, 
Informa Global Markets, EPFR Global
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
Arab Health, Middle East Electricity, Cityscape Global, China Beauty Expo, 
Vitafoods, World of Concrete, Fan Expo
SELECTED BRANDS/PRODUCTS
SuperReturn, Fund Forum, Bio-Europe, AfricaCom, Broadband World 
Series, TV Connect
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
36%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
25%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
17%
CONTRIBUTION TO 2014 REVENUE
22%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Subscriptions 53%
 Copy sales 47%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Subscriptions 87%
 Copy sales 9%
 Advertising 4%
 REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Exhibitors 79%
 Attendees 10%
 Sponsorship 8%
 Advertising 3%
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
 Attendees 60%
 Sponsorship 23%
 Exhibitors 15%
 Advertising 2%
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
3.0% organic revenue growth
The number of book titles available passed 100,000
Expansion of open access offering through Cogent OA
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Appointment of Patrick Martell as Divisional Chief Executive 
and creation of senior management team
Simplified operating structure via reorganisation into five  
market-facing verticals
Targeted investment programme created following in-depth review
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Strong organic revenue growth, + 18.9% year-on-year
Expansion into the US, the single largest Exhibitions market globally
Strengthened position in Real Estate & Construction, Health & Nutrition, 
and Pop Culture
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Appointment of Andrew Mullins as Divisional Chief Executive 
and creation of senior management team
Strong performance in Life Sciences and large-scale Finance events
US West Coast TMT operation established and major Internet of 
Things event launched
KEY STRATEGIES
Continued growth at, or ahead of, the academic market
Increase revenue from developing markets
Continued expansion of open access offering 
KEY STRATEGIES
Positive organic revenue growth run rate by end 2016
Immediate focus on sales and subscription management
Investment in product innovation and format flexibility
KEY STRATEGIES
Continued growth ahead of the Exhibitions market
Balance fast-growth emerging markets exposure with more mature markets
Enhance customer experience through engagement and technology
KEY STRATEGIES
Positive organic revenue growth run rate by end 2015
Migrate from a spot transaction to community engagement model
Harness technology to drive differentiation in products and marketing
UNDERPINNED BY:
GLOBAL SUPPORT 
p.47
The team behind the teams, working effectively to provide the strategy, 
stewardship and structure that enable our Operating Divisions to focus 
on being the very best they can be.
 Strategy & Planning
Talent & Transformation
Finance, Tax & Treasury
Technology
Capital Allocation
Communications
Legal
Intellectual Property
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 9
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  10 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
STEWARDSHIP 
AND STRUCTURE...
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 11
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
// The goal is simple but demanding: 
progressively to return every part of our 
business to growth, and simultaneously to 
build the capabilities and platforms needed 
for future scale and consistent performance. / /
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
www.informa.com
12 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 n 2014, Informa embarked on a period of 
transition. It was a year in which we took 
concerted action to enhance our business 
performance and strengthen the leadership 
team, our operating model and our 
corporate culture.
Steadily and surely, we have begun to deliver on this transition, 
with two overriding objectives: improving operational fitness, 
and creating the conditions for long-term growth.
Since our last Annual Report to shareholders, a long-term 
growth strategy has been unveiled, building on the strong 
basic foundations of Informa’s Academic Publishing, 
Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge 
& Networking Divisions. This Strategic Report provides details 
of how this strategy is being implemented through our Group 
Business Model (page 19) and via the individual Business 
Models of each of the four Operating Divisions (from page 23).
The goal is simple but demanding: progressively to return every 
part of our business to growth, and simultaneously to build the 
capabilities and platforms needed for future scale and 
consistent performance.
In the past year, we have made solid progress by introducing 
a simplified divisional operating model. We also enhanced the 
management team, refinanced our balance sheet and seized 
acquisition opportunities, particularly in the important US 
market, to expand our Global Exhibitions business. Together, 
these measures will deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
To implement this strategy, we announced the 2014–2017 
Growth Acceleration Plan in July of last year. 
As part of that plan, we expect the current year to be one of 
execution and delivery, positioning Informa for subsequent 
growth and improving our ability to operate at scale.
In executing the Growth Acceleration Plan, your management 
team will prioritise financial discipline and operational focus, 
ensuring that we continue to deliver revenue growth, 
consistent underlying profits and positive cash generation.
The full year figures in this report reflect our focused 
performance in 2014.
There are significant challenges ahead, and there are areas 
of our portfolio that require investment and an injection of 
fresh thinking. But the opportunities in the Knowledge and 
Information industries far outweigh the risks. And this means 
that our management, Informa colleagues and shareholders 
can look forward with confidence to the period ahead.
I
/ /  In the past year, we have made solid 
progress by introducing a simplified 
divisional operating model. We also 
enhanced the management team, 
refinanced our balance sheet and 
seized acquisition opportunities. / /
/ /  We operate in some of the most 
exciting and valuable sectors of 
our industry: specialist business 
information, must-have academic 
content, Exhibitions and events that 
are a showcase for different sectors. / /
/ /  The market opportunity is reflected 
by industry estimates that the 
Information Economy, in which 
Informa operates, is worth more 
than £200bn globally. / /
/ /  T h e Growth Acceleration Plan is 
a multi-year strategy to improve 
operational performance and better 
exploit the growth opportunities in 
our core markets. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 13
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  MARKET OPPORTUNITY
Informa’s market opportunity, as we reshape the business, 
reflects the worldwide expansion of the Knowledge and 
Information Economy. 
We operate in some of the most exciting and valuable sectors 
of our industry: specialist business information, must-have 
academic content, and business Exhibitions and events 
that are a showcase for different sectors.
Informa benefits from business confidence, itself a by-product 
of economic growth, in markets such as the US, in China and 
parts of Western Europe such as the UK. We are also exposed 
to long-term, predictable, areas of content demand, notably 
for the academic journals and content published by Taylor 
& Francis. We are also present in emerging markets, where 
growth rates remain attractive – albeit volatile. And we are 
leaders in specialist business-to-business Exhibitions, where 
demand from delegates and exhibitors alike is on the increase.
Your company is, therefore, well placed from a market 
perspective. There are countries where we need to be bigger, 
notably the US, China, the Middle East and Africa. But our 
overall geographic presence is building and gives us a platform. 
Nevertheless, this poses a challenge that we began to address 
in 2014: have we been operating effectively in all these markets, 
with the right mix of assets, the most efficient portfolio and the 
right go-to-market strategies? We set out to answer those 
questions with a Group-wide review last year. It confirmed the 
market opportunities before us: especially given the explosion 
in data sharing, business information exchange and demand 
for the sort of specialist information that we provide. 
The market opportunity is reflected by industry estimates that 
the Information Economy, in which Informa operates, is worth 
more than £200bn globally. This figure is growing at 2% to 6% 
a year, creating significant expansion potential for the Group. 
To seize those opportunities, Informa requires a more focused, 
growth-oriented and reorganised business proposition. That is 
what we started to put in place during 2014 – a year in which 
we also delivered solid financial results. 
The past year’s results, set out in more detail in the Financial 
Review, reflect the attractive nature of the markets in which 
we operate. But they also show that we must take a long hard 
look at our portfolio; we must maintain our financial discipline; 
and we must perform consistently during the coming period 
of transition.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In the 12 months to 31 December 2014, Informa delivered 
stable revenues of £1.13bn and adjusted operating profits of 
£334.1m. This was a creditable performance given challenging 
conditions in some of our markets, particularly impacting 
Business Intelligence. 
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
DATA IS THE POWER 
BEHIND TODAY’S 
BUSINESSES
It has been calculated that in 2013 there 
was 4.4ZB of data worldwide.
ZB
A zettabyte (ZB) is 1 followed by 21 zeros 
of bytes – that is, a trillion gigabytes. 
By 2020, that total is forecast to have 
grown to 40ZB. Such numbers are 
unimaginably large. We generate useful 
information from this mass.
www.informa.com
14 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 We generated strong free cash flow of £232.5m – up 
from £207 .8m in the prior year – as our leading positions 
in Academic Publishing and Global Exhibitions offset 
volatility in other businesses.
As part of the strategic review undertaken in 2014 and our 
annual assessment of the future returns from our businesses 
and investments, we reassessed our business portfolio, and 
the asset values attached to different businesses. Following 
that review, we took a non-cash impairment charge of £219.0m 
against our 12 month earnings, which resulted in a statutory 
pre-tax loss for the year of £31.2m. This reflects our 
determination to be financially prudent, and to continually 
reassess our portfolio mix.
Gareth Wright, who was appointed Group Finance Director 
during the year, explains the results and divisional performance 
in more detail in the Financial Review (pages 56 to 59). But 
shareholders can be reassured that our cash generation and 
earnings per share remain solid; our balance sheet is strong; 
and we have sufficient confidence in the trading outlook to 
recommend to the Board an increase to the full year dividend.
In the current year and beyond, several parts of the business 
are growing and have the potential to grow faster. And we 
believe we have the potential to double in size over the long 
term. Given this opportunity, we laid down a roadmap for 
2014-2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN
– Growth investment
– Performance acceleration
– Return on investment
– Funding
– Portfolio management
–  Targeted mergers and 
acquisitions (“M&A”)
– Catch-up investment
– Strategic review
– Operating structure
– Strengthening talent
– Organisational efficiencies
– Internal engagement
MEASURED CHANGE > ACCELERATED CHANGE >
ACCELERATE AND SCALE >
OPERATIONAL FITNESS >
STRENGTHEN > 
future expansion and accelerated growth in 2014. We concluded 
that a revised strategy was required to deliver growth in all our 
markets and improve the returns we generate for shareholders. 
This was the basis for the Growth Acceleration Plan. 
2014–2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN
In July of last year, we announced the 2014–2017 Growth 
Acceleration Plan, which is a multi-year strategy to improve 
operational performance and better exploit the growth 
opportunities in our core markets. 
As mentioned earlier in this report to shareholders – and in that 
of the Chairman – the Growth Acceleration Plan aims to have 
all four Operating Divisions delivering a positive organic growth 
run rate by the end of 2016. 
The Growth Acceleration Plan comprises six core elements: 
a new operating structure for the Group; a strengthened 
management team; enhanced portfolio management; a 
focused acquisition strategy; a new investment programme; 
and finally, a new funding model. Given the time that has 
elapsed since we first unveiled the Growth Acceleration Plan, 
it is worth reminding shareholders about what we are 
seeking to do. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 15
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  1. OPERATING STRUCTURE
Under the operating structure unveiled in July 2014, Informa 
now has four market-facing Operating Divisions: Academic 
Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and 
Knowledge & Networking. 
I believe, as does the Board and management, that this structure 
aligns the Group more closely with the markets it serves. It 
improves our customer focus, and will encourage collaboration 
within business segments and across geographies. Additionally, 
it creates the potential to leverage scale more effectively.
The four Operating Divisions are supported by a “fifth” Division: 
Global Support, incorporating all central Group functions such 
as Shared Services, Information Technology and Finance. As 
the Group builds scale globally, the Global Support Division 
will become increasingly important in ensuring we maximise 
scale efficiencies across process functions and the broader 
back office.
2. STRENGTHENED MANAGEMENT TEAM
As I mentioned earlier, Gareth Wright was appointed Group 
Finance Director in July, stepping up from his previous role 
as Deputy Finance Director. Gareth explains our financial 
performance and the impact of balance sheet changes 
following our 2014 refinancing on pages 56 to 59 of this report.
At the divisional operating level, we have appointed Patrick 
Martell as Chief Executive of Business Intelligence and 
Andrew Mullins as Chief Executive of Knowledge & 
Networking. They have brought fresh perspective and focus 
to our management planning in those businesses, and will 
be implementing a range of growth measures during 2015.
The four Divisional Chief Executives have formed their own 
senior management teams through a mixture of internal 
transfers and external recruitment. This leaves each Operating 
Division with a well-defined organisational structure and clear 
lines of authority and accountability.
At the Group level, Tom Moloney has joined Informa as 
Director of Talent & Transformation, and Alex Roth as Director 
of Strategy & Business Planning. Each brings their own 
experience to their roles, complementing other internal 
appointments made to the Executive Management Team.
As the Chairman highlights in his report, we also added further 
valuable experience to the Board in 2014. 
3. PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
One of the principles behind the Growth Acceleration Plan 
is to continually reassess the mix and focus of the Group. 
This enables us to ensure we are allocating capital to the right 
areas, where the potential to improve returns are greatest. 
Our thorough review in 2014 led to a number of key decisions:
transferring the management of the Medical Journals 
business from Business Intelligence to Academic 
Publishing and several other small assets to Knowledge 
& Networking;
creating a single Informa operating centre in Shanghai, China;
considering strategic alternatives for the smaller 
Consumer information and forecasting businesses 
within Business Intelligence;
fully providing for the loans to the Chinese Pharmaceutical 
data business;
closing our conference business in Johannesburg and 
events business in Melbourne; and
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
/ /  The 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan is 
a multi-year strategy to improve operational 
performance and better exploit the growth 
opportunities in our core markets. / /
www.informa.com
16 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 taking an impairment against the carrying value of certain 
information assets acquired as part of the 2007 Datamonitor 
acquisition, including the Consumer portfolio under review.
4. ACQUISITION STRATEGY
As part of the Growth Acceleration Plan, Informa has a targeted 
and disciplined acquisition strategy to build scale and capability 
across priority industry verticals and geographic markets. 
In 2014, acquisition activity was primarily focused on the Global 
Exhibitions Division, with a particular emphasis on building our 
US presence. This is the largest Exhibitions market in the world 
and, consequently, it leads the industry in terms of innovation 
and product development. 
In August, we acquired Virgo Holdings and its portfolio of 
six major Health and Nutrition shows – including SupplySide 
West. This event complements our established Vitafoods 
Exhibition Brand, which runs the leading equivalent event 
in Europe, as well as events in Asia and Latin America. 
This confirms Informa’s position as the market leader 
in this growing vertical. 
In December, we acquired Hanley Wood Exhibitions, with 
a portfolio of 17 major Exhibitions and trade shows in 
Construction and Real Estate, including World of Concrete 
and Greenbuild. This acquisition complements our leading 
position within this vertical in Canada, through Brands such 
as Construct and the Real Estate Global Forum, and in the 
Middle East, through the Cityscape series of events.
More recently, we completed the bolt-on acquisition of the 
Orlando MegaCon Consumer Exhibition. This expands our 
strong Canadian Fan Expo Pop Culture franchise further into 
the US, following the acquisition of the Dallas ComiCon in 
2014, strengthening our position in this exciting and fast 
growing vertical.
These businesses offer the prospect of strong growth and 
good potential for synergies through customer marketing 
and geo-cloning. They enhance our existing presence in 
each business segment.
With newly acquired businesses, we remain focused on 
post-acquisition integration, increasing the attention paid to 
businesses after they have been bought, to facilitate a smooth 
and efficient transition and ensure potential synergies are 
maximised. In our recently acquired businesses, forward 
bookings are strong, and World of Concrete (held in February 
2015) reported an increase in revenue of more than 20% on 
the previous year.
5. ORGANIC INVESTMENT
One of the most significant elements of the Growth Acceleration 
Plan is a commitment, over the next three years, to invest up to 
£90m in a range of internal projects across the Group. These 
initiatives represent a mixture of catch-up investment and 
incremental growth projects, falling into four key categories:
People and organisation
Customer engagement and value creation
Product and content refresh
Production agility and scale
The investment programme spans all four Operating Divisions, 
as well as the Global Support Division, with a particular 
weighting towards Business Intelligence. This Division is 
expected to account for about one third of the total spend.
The deployment of capital into these initiatives will be carefully 
managed, with each project assessed on its merits and 
funds only provided in stages, depending on delivery to 
specific targets. 
The first priority projects were submitted for funding in January 
2015 and the volume of work streams is expected to build 
through the year. The Group expects to invest between 
£70m and £90m in Growth Acceleration Plan projects 
over the next three years, with between £30m and £40m 
budgeted for 2015. 
It is anticipated that by 2017 , the investment programme will 
deliver a positive cash return on investment, with a full cash 
payback expected the following year.
6. FUNDING
The Group’s ambition is to retain a robust financing framework 
for the duration of the 2014–2017 programme, incorporating a 
varied and balanced mix of funding sources and maintaining 
net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”) within the Group’s target range of 2.0 
times to 2.5 times. This will ensure adequate liquidity to fund 
all elements of the Growth Acceleration Plan, including the 
investment programme and acquisition strategy. Our funding 
plan will also allow the Group to meet its stated commitment 
to increase annual dividends per share by a minimum of 2% 
per annum through the 2014–2017 period.
The first step in delivering this strategy was the refinancing 
of the Group’s revolving credit facility in October 2014, with a 
maturity of October 2019, and increasing its size from £625m 
to £900m at an interest rate of LIBOR +0.6 to 1.2%, depending 
on the ratio of actual net debt/EBITDA. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 17
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  More recently, we raised £207m through the issue of 45m 
new shares. This ensured that the Group’s net debt to EBITDA 
ratio at year end stood at 2.2 times, within our target range, 
providing ongoing flexibility for the pursuit of targeted 
acquisitions, in line with the Growth Acceleration Plan 
acquisition strategy.
OUR 2015 ROADMAP
I hope to have demonstrated that Informa has emerged from 
the 2014 transition year with purpose, with performance 
and with a clear plan for growth. We have made a detailed 
assessment of our strengths and weaknesses; and we examined 
the global markets in which we operate to better understand 
our customers and the opportunities for expansion. This led to 
our plan for accelerated growth. It is a plan to ensure Informa 
achieves its full potential and improves returns for shareholders.
We have begun to put this plan into action. We now have a 
simplified operating structure and a strengthened management 
team. Our balance sheet is robust, providing flexibility to invest 
in the business and pursue acquisitions. We have discipline and 
patience. This gives us positive momentum and strong belief 
we are on the right path. 
The year ahead will see further change as we continue with 
the Growth Acceleration Plan. But we also expect to see 
steady operational progress, as these changes start to 
have a positive impact.
I am confident that our operating discipline will ensure we also 
continue to deliver on our promises and, in Year Two of the 
Growth Acceleration Plan, assuming current exchange rates 
are maintained, we intend to deliver another year of adjusted 
earnings growth, alongside our commitment to further dividend 
growth and over £30m of investment into the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
This will require discipline and hard work throughout the Group. 
It also depends on Informa preserving the best of its past, 
and applying its quality franchises and management talent 
to a future of sustained, focused growth. We have made an 
encouraging start. I firmly believe that all the right ingredients 
are in place: we have assets from which to grow; an international 
team of talented colleagues; and an increasingly united vision 
of what can be achieved.
I would like to thank our shareholders, our customers, our 
suppliers and business partners for their support as we 
embark on this growth strategy.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
//  Informa has emerged from the 2014 transition 
year with purpose, with performance and with 
a clear plan for growth. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
18 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 SUSTAINED 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
RESPONSIBLY
ACTING
TO SUCCEED
FREEDOM
EXCELLENCE
IN ALL WE DO
COMMERCIALLY
FOCUSED
VALUE PROTECTION
RELATIONSHIPS & RESOURCES
TALENT
INFRASTRUCTURE
BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model is based on providing oversight, strategy and governance at the centre, 
to support the individual business models of each of the autonomous Operating Divisions, 
as laid out in the respective sections of this report. Within a strong framework of value 
drivers, our goal is to improve returns and sustain shareholder value over the long term.
RELATIONSHIPS & 
RESOURCES
Informa’s history is one of forging 
strong relationships. Our 
communities provide the content 
and customer base for many of our 
products. Our strong cash flow 
and financial headroom provide the 
means to invest and grow.
TALENT
Our people are the driving force 
behind Informa, delivering 
expertise, insight and innovation. 
Finding, developing and retaining 
talent is pivotal to our success. We 
invest to attract, nurture, develop 
and reward our talent.
VALUE PROTECTION
Value is protected by the 
stewardship of the Group. 
Clear strategic direction and a 
governance framework provide the 
structure within which the Divisions 
work. Monitoring of performance 
provides feedback to highlight 
where an adaptation in approach 
may be necessary.
INFRASTRUCTURE
Our global scale and reach enable 
the Divisions to bring new products 
to existing markets or existing 
products into new markets.
The provision of unified, consistent 
services drives cost-efficiency 
and ensures compliance.
STRATEGY
OPERATING 
STRUCTURE
Alignment to markets 
served, improving 
customer focus, 
facilitating leverage of 
scale and ensuring 
divisional/geographic 
collaboration.
MANAGEMENT 
MODEL
Maintain a well-defined 
organisational structure, 
build management 
capability and define 
clear lines of authority 
and accountability.
PORTFOLIO 
MANAGEMENT
Continual reassessment 
of the mix and focus of 
the Group, ensuring 
efficient allocation 
of capital, to where 
the potential returns 
are greatest.
ACQUISITION 
STRATEGY
Targeted and disciplined 
approach, focused on 
building scale and 
capability across priority 
industry verticals and 
geographic markets.
 
INVESTMENT
Commitment to invest 
up to £90m over three 
years on a range of 
internal projects to 
accelerate growth 
across the Group.
 
FUNDING
Retain a robust and 
flexible financing 
framework to fund 
investment and 
acquisition strategy.
DELIVERED BY OUR DIVISIONS
ACADEMIC  
PUBLISHING
BUSINESS  
INTELLIGENCE
GLOBAL  
EXHIBITIONS
KNOWLEDGE & 
NETWORKING
GLOBAL  
SUPPORT
 CORE OFFERING     VALUE DRIVERS    
 
ENABLERS
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 19
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  20  UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
A PORTFOLIO 
OF LEADING 
INFORMATION 
BUSINESSES...
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 21
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  www.informa.com
22 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 ENHANCE 
ACADEMIC 
UNDERSTANDING
DISTRIBUTION
RELIANCE
TRUST AND
CONTENT
PRODUCTION
VALIDATION AND
QUALITY CONTROL
VALUE PROTECTION
RELATIONSHIPS & RESOURCES
TALENT
INFRASTRUCTURE
A GLOBAL LEADER 
IN EDUCATION
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING
The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist 
books and journals. Operating as the Taylor & Francis 
Group, it is recognised internationally as one of the world’s 
leading education publishers through its five leading 
imprints: Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland 
Science and Cogent OA. Its core strengths include a 
catalogue of more than 100,000 book titles and 2,100 
peer reviewed journals available in both print and digital 
formats, across subject areas within Humanities and 
Social Sciences, and Science, Technology and Medicine. 
The Division provides academics, researchers and 
businesses with the knowledge and information to stay at 
the forefront of their fields of expertise, and a publishing 
platform to promote new theories and discoveries. 
Book and journal titles include The Molecular Biology of 
the Cell, Journal of Natural History, Applied Economics, 
Journal of Modern Optics and CMRO – Current Medical 
Research & Opinion.
This Division accounts for 36% of Informa’s revenue.
WORLD-CLASS CONTENT AND DISTRIBUTION
In the Academic Publishing Division, our goal is to 
enhance Academic understanding, through a business 
model built around the quality and value of content. For 
generations, we have secured loyalty with authors and 
customers by delivering high quality, peer reviewed content.
The operating model is differentiated by taking a long-
term view to relationships with authors and institutions, 
building trust over many years. The publishing strategy 
concentrates on being a leading player in a broad range 
of specialist niches. Control of the content and pricing is 
key to our success.
In terms of production and distribution, we rely upon a lean 
and efficient infrastructure. Where possible, Academic 
Publishing centralises processes and harnesses technology 
to drive down costs. These processes are designed to 
ensure cost-effective production of content and efficient 
distribution to end-users. The production process is 100% 
digital but the format output is flexible, enabling the Division 
to respond to customer requirements.
In this business, customers and their needs come first. 
Whether for authors or readers, products are tailored 
to demand. In print, online or on demand, content is 
searchable and discoverable, and can be purchased 
or rented in increasingly innovative ways.
BUSINESS MODEL
 CORE OFFERING
 VALUE DRIVERS
 ENABLERS
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 23
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  // The publishing strategy concentrates on being 
a leading player in a broad range of specialist 
niches. Control of the content and pricing is 
key to our success. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
24 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 MARKET TRENDS
The global academic publishing market is growing 
2%–3% annually
Investment in higher education in emerging markets 
is a growth opportunity
English remains the primary language of academia
Peer reviewed journals are a validation tool for 
academic research
The academic market is seasonal rather than cyclical
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Continue to grow at, or ahead of, the academic market
Increase revenue from developing markets
Continue to expand our content database through 
expansion of front-list publishing and targeted acquisitions
Increase content origination from developing markets
Remain flexible on format delivery, reflecting 
customer demand
Continue to expand open access offering
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014
Organic revenue growth of 3% 
More than 5,000 new books published, the highest 
number ever produced by the Division
Book catalogue passed 100,000 titles
Expansion of open access offering through Cogent OA
Merger of Medical Journals business into Taylor & Francis
RELIABLE AND CONSISTENT GROWTH 
The Academic Publishing Division has grown consistently, 
contributing reliable and robust income for the Group. In 2014, 
organic revenue growth was 3%.
For the Division, the Books business represents 47% of 
revenue. It published more than 5,000 new titles in 2014, taking 
the total number of books in the catalogue to over 100,000 in 
multiple formats, providing customers with flexibility and choice. 
In 2014, 22% of sales were ebooks, up from 20% in 2013. 
All front-list titles are available digitally, as well as 60% of 
the backlist.
Academic Publishing publishes specialist books in niche 
subject areas. Typically sold in relatively low volumes, our 
books are highly valued by our customers, who rely 
on our author expertise in particular subject areas. Our core 
audience ranges from second year undergraduates through 
to postgraduates and professional researchers. 
Many of the books are one-off studies and remain relevant for 
many years. Some are repeatable, updated regularly into new 
editions. In 2014, for example, we published the 6th Edition 
of one our best-selling textbooks, The Molecular Biology of 
the Cell. 
The Journals business represents 53% of Academic Publishing 
revenue. It publishes more than 2,100 journals, mainly in the 
English language, and predominantly in two subject areas: 
Science, Technical and Medical, and Humanities and Social 
Sciences, where it is the world leader. 
This is a digital business, from the front end to the back end. 
The journals are produced and published digitally. 
REVENUE
£408.9m
(2013: £407.8m)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£150.0m
(2013: £150.9m)
PROPORTION OF  
GROUP REVENUE
36%
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 25
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING (CONTINUED)
Overall content usage is increasing, reflecting its value and 
international relevance, as the global number of students 
continues to grow. This also highlights the flexibility of digital 
content and the impact that the ability to search, index, 
reference and link content has on discoverability.
The majority of journals are sold through annual subscriptions. 
However, with the recent development in open access models, 
Academic Publishing offers authors flexibility in how their 
content is used and sold. Through Cogent OA, a leading 
portfolio of open access journals is being created. Here, 
fees are received for accepted peer reviewed content 
which is then available for free at the point of use.
In 2014, Informa transferred its Medical Journals operation 
from the Business Intelligence Division to Academic 
Publishing. This added 181 titles to the journal portfolio, 
increasing the scale and relevance for some customers. 
The combination will generate cost savings in 2015 but the 
real opportunity lies in accelerating growth and increasing 
penetration and usage in the academic sector. 
The enlarged Division depends upon a robust and efficient 
infrastructure. Processes are centralised where possible 
and technology is deployed to improve production speed 
and flexibility. 
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH
In total, the academic market is worth $16bn–$17bn worldwide. 
While the market is relatively mature in the developed world, 
opportunities for sourcing content and generating revenue 
are increasing in emerging markets. In these regions English 
continues to grow in importance, being the primary language 
of academia.
The structure of the market is characterised by a number of 
large-scale players with global reach, including Taylor & Francis. 
There is then a broad spectrum of smaller, niche suppliers, 
many of whom specialise in a particular subject area.
For all players in the industry, growth depends partly on library 
and education budgets, research and development trends and 
advances in technology. But investment in higher education 
and professional research within developing markets provides 
a long-term growth opportunity. 
FUTURE PROSPECTS – CONTENT GROWTH 
AND DISCOVERABILITY
For the Division, the US is the single largest market, accounting 
for almost 50% of sales in 2014. While it is mature, growth 
opportunities exist in the US in unexploited publishing niches, 
through increased discoverability and product innovation.
Developing markets have strong growth prospects. Rising 
numbers of students, new universities and research and 
development all provide attractive underlying expansion 
opportunities. As these economies mature, the Division 
anticipates growing demand for Humanities and Social 
Sciences subject areas. Growing content creation accelerates 
in developing regions such as India and China, and greater 
regional emphasis on revenue generation should follow.
Across the business, the core customer segment remains the 
academic community with academic libraries accounting for 
around 75% of revenue. But, increasingly, growth opportunities 
are emerging in business and professional markets.
The Division’s performance in 2014 and the prospects for 
future growth reinforce its view that content is central to 
everything Academic Publishing does. This is the lifeblood 
and the currency and will remain the key driver of future 
growth. Identifying new niches, re-purposing existing 
content, developing new formats, increasing discoverability, 
expanding front list, building open access offerings – all 
provide opportunities to drive incremental value from content. 
The Division is well positioned to benefit from these trends in 
2015 and beyond.
// The Division’s performance in 2014 and 
the prospects for future growth reinforce 
its view that content is central to everything 
Academic Publishing does. / /
www.informa.com
26 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 I joined Taylor & Francis in 2013 to create a new team 
and launch a new imprint focused specifically on open 
access publishing, having previously been Chief Operating 
Officer at a large open access publisher for six years. 
My passion is the use of technology to facilitate research 
communication and a publishing process that allows 
researchers to do what they do best – carry out research.
I have been given the autonomy to set up this new unit 
based on my knowledge of how open access works and the 
differences to the traditional journal publishing models. 
The first year disappeared in the blink of an eye – setting 
out the strategy and business plan, creating and testing 
the Brand, overseeing our PDF designs (which use a font 
designed to be accessible to those with a learning 
difficulty), building the editorial boards for our journals, 
developing the new functionality that drives our website 
and, of course, working with authors on their manuscripts. 
In 2014 Cogent OA was born and now publishes 18 journals.
Starting something from scratch is daunting – but having 
the chance to critically look at each part of our business is 
ultimately rewarding. I’m delighted that many of the things 
we do “differently” are already being adopted across the 
wider business. It’s only with the support of an organisation 
like Informa that we could have achieved so much so 
quickly – the can-do approach of so many teams from 
across the business and around the world was remarkable. 
TALENT
BRYAN VICKERY 
OPEN ACCESS 
DIRECTOR, 
COGENT OA
// It’s only with the support 
of an organisation like 
Informa that we could 
have achieved so much 
so quickly. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 27
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  www.informa.com
28 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 PROVIDE HIGHLY 
SPECIALISED 
ACTIONABLE 
INTELLIGENCE
DEMAND
INCREASE CUSTOMER
AND WORKFLOW
PRODUCT INNOVATION
IDENTIFY
NICHES
CREATE RICH DATA
AND INSIGHT
VALUE PROTECTION
RELATIONSHIPS & RESOURCES
TALENT
INFRASTRUCTURE
SPECIALIST INSIGHT 
AND INTELLIGENCE
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist 
data, intelligence and insight to businesses around the 
world, helping customers to make better decisions faster, 
gain competitive advantage and enhance return on 
investment. The Division has a portfolio of more than 
400 digital subscription products, providing critical 
insight and intelligence into niche communities across 
five core industry verticals: Pharma & Healthcare, Finance, 
Maritime & Law, Telecoms/Media/Technology (“TMT”), 
and Agriculture/Food. 
Our Brands and products include Lloyd’s List, Citeline, 
Datamonitor Healthcare, Scrip, Sagient, Ovum, Informa 
Global Markets and EPFR Global.
In total, this Division accounts for 25% of Informa’s revenue.
TURNING INSIGHT INTO ADVANTAGE
In the digital age the volume and range of information 
are growing exponentially. As this mass of information 
gets larger, extracting insight and intelligence becomes 
increasingly valuable. When insight translates into 
competitive advantage, it becomes indispensable. 
This is at the heart of how our business model in the 
Business Intelligence Division creates value. Operating 
across five core industry verticals, it supplies intelligence 
and insight into niche communities within them.
Its insight and analysis help customers make better 
decisions, providing industry intelligence that enables 
users to pursue relevant strategies and, ultimately, to 
drive a higher return on investment. 
Where possible, intelligence is embedded directly into 
customers’ workflow. The aim is for the Division’s services 
to become an integral part of customers’ daily routine, 
whether providing specific news and critical alerts on 
developments in a particular market, or sensitivity analysis 
on market data. The more integrated it becomes, the more 
efficient it is for customers and the more valuable Business 
Intelligence becomes to them, making it more difficult to 
cancel its product.
BUSINESS MODEL
 CORE OFFERING
 VALUE DRIVERS
 ENABLERS
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 29
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  // Its insight and analysis help customers 
make better decisions, providing industry 
intelligence that enables users to pursue 
relevant strategies and, ultimately, to drive 
a higher return on investment. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
30 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 MARKET TRENDS
Global market over $70bn a year, more than half in 
North America 
Historical growth rates of 3%–5% per annum, varying 
by sector 
Growing importance of insight and intelligence for corporate 
decision making and compliance/regulation 
Large-scale platform players in major sectors; competition 
less intense and more specialised within individual niches 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Achieve a positive organic growth run rate by end 2016
Focus on five core industry verticals
Improve customer focus and engagement
Immediate focus on subscription management and 
reversing customer “churn”
Invest in product innovation and format flexibility
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014
As part of the Growth Acceleration Plan, a major reorganisation 
was announced in Business Intelligence. This included:
Appointment of Patrick Martell, former CEO of St Ives, 
as Divisional Chief Executive 
Strengthened senior management team including key 
appointments in sales and content
Simplified operating structure through reorganisation into 
five market-facing verticals
Increased focus through transfer of Medical Journals to 
Academic Publishing
Targeted investment programme created following 
in-depth review
OPERATING AND MARKET FOCUS
The Knowledge and Information Economy is growing rapidly 
and the Business Intelligence Division operates at the heart 
of it. The Group-wide strategic review undertaken in 2014 
confirmed the long-term attractions of these markets and 
niches. But the business has struggled to grow in recent 
years, with organic revenues contracting by 8.5% in 2014.
In part, this reflects short-term challenges in certain verticals 
such as Pharma & Healthcare, but there have also been 
some fundamental issues with the structure and focus of 
the business. In 2014, Patrick Martell was appointed as 
Chief Executive. Patrick was formally CEO of St Ives, the 
print services group, where he led its transformation from 
a traditional printing press operation to a digital marketing 
services group. 
Patrick has since appointed his senior management team, 
bringing together experienced colleagues from within Informa 
alongside a number of external appointments, including in 
sales and content. 
The new management team immediately set about simplifying 
the operating model, pulling together a disparate historical 
structure and reorganising into market-facing units focused 
on five priority verticals: Finance, Pharma & Healthcare, TMT, 
Maritime & Law and Agriculture/Food.
Reflecting this increased focus, the Division announced 
that it is considering options for its Consumer information and 
forecasting businesses which include Brands such as Verdict. 
It is a small player in what is a broad, competitive market. 
Given its focus on speciality areas, its presence in Consumer 
information remains under review. 
The Division also transferred the Medical Journals business to 
Academic Publishing. This leaves the Division more focused 
on insight and intelligence products, and less on knowledge 
REVENUE
£281.7m
(2013: £305.9m)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£75.2m
(2013: £86.8m)
PROPORTION OF 
GROUP REVENUE
25%
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 31
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (CONTINUED)
and information. It also gives that business a greater chance 
of penetrating the academic institutional market, becoming 
part of a much broader journal portfolio.
Subscriptions represent the bulk of revenues in Business 
Intelligence. Renewal rates have been under pressure and 
this is an immediate focus for new management. A key priority 
is to increase the focus on customers and improve engagement 
levels throughout the subscription cycle. The Division needs to 
be closer to its customers to understand how they are using its 
products and additional benefits they could offer. It needs to 
to remind them how good the products are and give them 
reasons to renew. 
At the same time, the Division needs to keep its products best 
in class. It has strong Brands but customer demands change 
quickly and it needs to be responsive to this, to adapt the way 
it supplies content, to personalise its products to suit their 
needs. It needs to shift the focus away from information and 
news towards intelligence and insight. This is where the added 
value lies.
This will require investment and about one third of the funds 
from the £70m–£90m Growth Acceleration Plan programme 
are earmarked for the Business Intelligence Division. This 
will be invested across a range of projects and initiatives.
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH
The global market for business information and intelligence is 
worth around £70bn, with a historical growth rate of around 
3%–5%. Growth rates vary by sector and fluctuate with the 
wider macro cycle.
The Division’s direct markets are a subset of this, as it 
operates in specific niches. It does not offer broad datasets or 
a one-stop shop for information in sectors such as Healthcare. 
It offers deep and rich insight into niche verticals. For example, 
TrialTrove offers comprehensive, real-time intelligence on clinical 
trials globally, covering 180 diseases across eight major 
therapeutic areas. 
As information and data proliferate and compliance and 
regulation grow, intelligence markets become more important. 
Decisions have to be justified, investments verified. Intelligence 
provides insight and potentially competitive advantage. At this 
end of the information market, the outlook is healthy.
Despite these positive long-term trends, in recent years a 
number of short-term factors have impacted specific verticals:
In verticals such as Finance and Pharma, macro and secular 
pressures have forced companies to focus on cost-efficiency 
and protecting the bottom line, ahead of investment.
Procurement teams have gained influence with a remit 
to target third party supplier costs. At best, they have 
lengthened the lead time for subscriptions; at worst they 
have cancelled whole product categories without consulting 
internal end users.
In some sectors, such as Pharma, consolidation has 
reduced the number of customers.
A number of large competitors exist within the broader 
information market, typically offering platforms in some of the 
larger verticals. They tend to compete by offering large volumes 
of content but often they lack the depth of content in niches, 
where Business Intelligence products are targeted. Within 
these specific niches, competition tends to be less intense and 
more specialised. Typically the Division only competes with one 
or two players and the landscape is fragmented. 
The US is by far the biggest market for intelligence products, 
reflecting high levels of sophistication and regulation. 
FUTURE PROSPECTS – CONTINUING 
TRANSFORMATION
The Business Intelligence Division is undergoing a period 
of change. It is a business that operates in attractive, growing 
markets. It has talented people, good products and established 
Brands, many of which are synonymous with their target 
market, such as Lloyd’s List, Citeline and Ovum. This provides 
a good base on which to build.
It has simplified the operating structure of the business, 
removing internal barriers, encouraging collaboration and 
focusing on priority business segments. This has reorientated 
the business towards its customers. The refocus has been 
implemented by a strengthened management team, adding 
expertise and experience in relevant areas. All of this the 
Division positive momentum as it exits 2014. 
In 2015, we will launch a programme of investment through 
the Growth Acceleration Plan which will continue throughout 
2015. It has identified an array of different projects and 
initiatives, all designed to improve its core capabilities and 
accelerate growth over time. These range from product 
enhancements and workflow integration to customer 
engagement and sales management. All bring the Division 
closer to its customers and more focused on its 
priority markets. 
The subscription nature of the business means it will take time 
for the changes the Division is making to be reflected on the 
bottom line. But it should see operational progress along the 
way. This will be evident in the detailed matrix of operating 
metrics by which the business is tracked, including improving 
subscription renewals, reduced attrition and growing 
annualised contract values. It has a target to return to positive 
organic growth by the end of 2016. Given the attractive markets 
in which it operates and the momentum it is building, the 
Business Intelligence Division is well placed to return to 
growth over the medium term. 
www.informa.com
32 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 I am a Senior Consultant at eBenchmarkers, part of the 
Business Intelligence Division of Informa. We provide 
the UK’s leading financial services providers with 
powerful strategic insights. My role is very diverse 
and it includes responsibilities such as: establishing 
strong client relationships, data analysis, writing 
reports, delivering tailored workshops, and product 
and business development.
Informa has recently given me the opportunity to 
participate in the One Young World Conference, which 
brings together young leaders from around the globe and 
empowers them to develop solutions to some of the world’s 
most pressing issues. The people that I have met through 
this event, together with Informa’s Young Leaders 
Conference, have been very inspiring for me. 
As a One Young World Ambassador, I want to encourage 
a positive impact on our community and Informa’s 
Young Philanthropy syndicate has helped me to fulfil 
this ambition. Together with my fellow syndicate members, 
we support our charity “Springboard for Children” not 
merely through our funding, but more importantly by 
sharing our professional skills.
All of these experiences have enabled me to widen 
my knowledge and professional skills, ultimately 
benefiting my core work. As a result, working for Informa 
has significantly supported my personal development.
TALENT
RUTH JANSSEN  
SENIOR CONSULTANT , 
EBENCHMARKERS, 
BUSINESS 
INTELLIGENCE
// As a One Y oung World 
Ambassador, I want to 
encourage a positive 
impact on our community 
and Informa’s Y oung 
Philanthropy syndicate 
has helped me to fulfil 
this ambition. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 33
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  www.informa.com
34 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 PROVIDE TRADING 
PLATFORMS IN 
KEY VERTICALS
SPACE
SELL EXHIBITOR
ATTENDEES
ATTRACT
SCALE AND
GEO-CLONE
IDENTIFY
NICHES
VALUE PROTECTION
RELATIONSHIPS & RESOURCES
TALENT
INFRASTRUCTURE
INTERNATIONAL PLATFORMS 
FOR TRADE AND COMMERCE
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS
The Global Exhibitions Division organises Exhibitions and 
trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers across related 
industries and communities with a platform to meet face to 
face, build relationships and conduct business. Informa has 
a portfolio of more than 150 Exhibitions, serving a number 
of market segments including Health & Nutrition, Beauty, 
Property & Construction and Pop Culture. 
Our Exhibition Brands include Arab Health, Cityscape, 
China Beauty Expo, World of Concrete and Fan Expo.
This Division accounts for 17% of Informa’s revenue.
BUILDING PLATFORMS FOR BUYING AND SELLING
The business model in the Global Exhibitions Division 
generates value by creating platforms for buyers and 
sellers to congregate, network and transact. 
Identifying and attracting the right audiences for the 
right location is critical. Exhibitors measure the success 
of an event through the number of contracts they sign and 
the quality of leads they generate. Attracting visitors is 
therefore key to the success of Exhibitions, and this often 
requires strong relationships with industry associations 
and government bodies.
Location is critical to success and so relationships with 
venue owners are very important.
Exhibition Brands have value. Well-established events 
become the annual destination for an industry to 
congregate. Building strong Brands drives competitive 
advantage and barriers to entry.
BUSINESS MODEL
 CORE OFFERING
 VALUE DRIVERS
 ENABLERS
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 35
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  // Informa is a leading player in the 
Exhibitions industry, with revenue 
close to £250m annually, putting it 
among the top organisers globally. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
36 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 REVENUE
£200.2m
(2013: £160.2m)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£67.4m
(2013: £50.0m)
MARKET TRENDS
The Exhibitions market is global and worth around £28bn 
It is highly fragmented; the largest operator only has 
a 3% market share 
The market is dominated by small producers, many 
of them entrepreneurs 
Exhibitions are well suited to emerging markets 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Deliver continued growth ahead of the Exhibitions market
Maintain a portfolio of Exhibitions that achieves a balance 
between fast growing emerging markets and more 
mature markets
Pursue a targeted and disciplined acquisition strategy 
that strengthens Global Exhibitions’ position in priority 
verticals and geographies
Enhance the customer experience through engagement 
and the use of technology
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014
Strong organic revenue growth, 18.9% year-on-year
Expansion into the US, the single largest Exhibition 
market globally
Strengthened position in Real Estate & Construction, 
Health & Nutrition, and Pop Culture verticals
Annualised revenue going forward of about £250m, 
putting us within the top five
STRONG GROWTH ACROSS MAJOR REGIONS
Exhibitions are platforms for networking and commerce. 
Organisers are trusted partners who have the knowledge 
and connections to bring communities together effectively. 
Identifying and attracting the relevant audience in the right 
location for an Exhibition is a key skill. Often this requires strong 
relationships with industry associations and government 
bodies, whose support is needed to encourage attendance. 
For this reason, some new Exhibitions fail to gain traction. 
But those that do can build momentum over many years to 
become the annual industry meeting point, a must-attend event 
for meeting existing customers face to face, identifying new 
customers and promoting new products and services.
Ten years ago, Exhibitions did not feature on the corporate 
budget for media investment or business development. Today, 
Exhibitions are viewed as an essential part of the marketing 
mix and one of the most efficient mediums. The return on 
investment from exhibiting at the right industry Exhibition is 
often extremely high. And it is readily measurable, as both the 
costs and the return are visible, with contracts signed on-site 
or leads generated that subsequently result in a deal. 
Informa is a leading player in the Exhibitions industry, with 
revenue close to £250m annually, putting it among the top 
organisers globally. This follows a period of rapid growth, 
through both organic expansion and a series of targeted 
acquisitions. In 2014, the Division reported exceptional organic 
growth of 18.9%, reflecting very strong performances from its 
larger Exhibitions, particularly in the Middle East and China. 
In 2014, Global Exhibitions set out to establish a presence in 
the US market, the single largest Exhibition market globally by 
some distance. This was an obvious gap in its portfolio and, 
given the level of investment and innovation, one that it needed 
to fill to be a true global player. It pursued a targeted and 
disciplined acquisition strategy to identify US businesses 
that would give the Division strong Brands, management 
capability and added value to its established position in key 
market segments.
This led to a number of high profile acquisitions. In August 
it acquired a portfolio of six major trade shows, including 
SupplySide West, the leading US Health & Nutrition Exhibition. 
PROPORTION OF 
GROUP REVENUE
17%
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 37
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS (CONTINUED)
It is highly complementary to its established Vitafoods 
franchise. In December, it acquired a portfolio of 17 major 
Exhibitions in the Construction & Real Estate segment, 
including well-known Brands such as World of Concrete and 
Greenbuild. This complements its strong position within this 
vertical outside of the US, through leading Brands such as 
Construct in Canada and Cityscape in the Middle East. The 
Division recently acquired the Orlando MegaCon Consumer 
Exhibition, extending its Canadian Fan Expo Pop Culture 
franchise to the US.
Following these deals, we have an established position in 
most of the major Exhibition markets, including North America, 
the Middle East, Brazil, China and Europe. This provides 
a framework of relationships, giving detailed insight into 
developments in local markets and a capability for geo-cloning 
successful Exhibitions.
One of the strengths of Exhibitions is that they provide 
businesses with an effective entry into emerging markets. 
With relatively little investment, a company can use a local 
Exhibition to promote themselves and develop contacts in 
an untapped region. Alternatively, the Exhibition might reveal 
that the appetite for its products and services is not sufficient 
to warrant further investment, or the industry might not yet 
have reached sufficient maturity. 
A successful Exhibition can be highly profitable. It also creates 
a credible Brand and a team with valuable knowledge and data 
on the industry it serves. This can be exploited by exporting 
the Exhibition to other regions where there may be demand, 
leveraging exhibitor relationships to encourage participation, 
and then working with local associations and government to 
attract relevant visitors. We call this geo-cloning and it is a core 
part of our Exhibition strategy. Good examples where we have 
geo-cloned a successful Brand to other territories include Arab 
Health, Vitafoods, The Anti-Aging Medicine World Congress, 
Cityscape and Fan Expo. 
Geo-cloning is one way to broaden and deepen the relationship 
with exhibitors. It creates an international partnership, as the 
Division provides them with platforms to do business in multiple 
territories around the world. It is constantly looking for other 
ways to extend the relationship with exhibitors beyond the major 
annual show. Innovation and development are continuing in the 
digital space, using tools such as webinars, social networking, 
blogs and white papers to strengthen and deepen the relationship 
with exhibitors and visitors to its shows. In the US, one of the 
Division’s businesses has developed a “ladder of engagement” 
approach for customers, engaging with them on various levels 
to build towards the big annual event. In some cases, this is 
having a marked impact on new business and retention rates. 
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH
The Exhibitions market is global and worth around £28bn 
per annum. It is highly fragmented – the biggest player only 
has a 3% market share – and highly entrepreneurial. Most 
shows launched from scratch are created by individuals 
who are often part of a community or industry, and see the 
need for a meeting point, a gathering to network. Those that 
are successful often develop a strong following at a local or 
regional level. But often the individual operators reach a size 
where taking it to the next level requires investment or an 
international capability that it doesn’t have. This is a natural 
point when it might look to partner or sell to a larger player 
with the resources, expertise and relationships to grow it to the 
next level. The combination of fragmentation, entrepreneurial 
ownership and underlying Exhibition market growth is driving 
merger and acquisition activity in the sector.
Individual shows generally reflect the health of the particular 
sector they serve. Immature, growth industries tend to fuel 
rapid expansion in Exhibition space as the number of industry 
participants proliferates and investment into the sector is high. 
Larger and more established shows tend to be more resilient 
through economic cycles. 
FUTURE PROSPECTS – GEOGRAPHIC AND 
VERTICAL EXPANSION
Global Exhibitions continues to look for growth opportunities 
by expanding the space rented at existing events, maximising 
yield, geo-cloning in new territories, new launches and targeted 
acquisitions. In a strong Exhibition industry, free of structural 
pressures and at an attractive point in the cycle, all of these 
channels should deliver growth. 
The Division will also look for incremental value opportunities. 
Sponsorship and promotion, digital content and conferences 
are just some of the ways it increasingly looks to generate 
additional revenue on top of core Exhibition income streams. 
The deeper and broader its engagement with customers, 
the more value it should generate.
The Division will continue to pursue a proactive, targeted and 
disciplined acquisition strategy. It will look to strengthen its 
geographic reach and position in core markets, and build 
on its leading positions in priority market segments. At the 
same time, it constantly looks to identify unexploited markets, 
growing industries or derivative verticals that might provide 
an opportunity.
Its acquisition strategy is focused on making the most of 
businesses once it has bought them. It ensures there is 
a smooth integration process and synergies are optimised, 
both on the cost side and in relation to revenue. 
The Division continues to leverage its global infrastructure 
effectively and transfer best practice across the business. 
The combination of attractive market and business dynamics 
positions the Global Exhibitions Division well for the year 
ahead, giving it confidence it can deliver on its ambition 
to continue to grow ahead of the wider Exhibition market.
www.informa.com
38 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 I joined Informa in 2006 and I’m currently based in our 
Dubai office. Over the years I have been responsible for 
marketing activity across a number of our trade and 
Consumer Exhibitions as well as being the Exhibition 
Director for PALME Middle East and the Middle East 
EVENT Show. In my current role as the Divisional 
Marketing Integration Director for Global Exhibitions 
I support each business within the portfolio in the 
development and delivery of successful marketing 
strategies. The priority for me right now is driving 
change to take advantage of the opportunities 
digita transformation offers nimble and forward 
thinking businesses. 
My job means I spend a lot of time travelling but the 
pay-off is meeting diverse groups of colleagues who 
all share the objective of delivering successful events. 
It’s inspiring to hear of things that have gone well and 
communicate this news around the business for others 
to benefit. It’s also motivating to join in the brainstorming 
sessions when unforeseen challenges get transformed 
into opportunities by creative and resourceful minds. 
Informa prides itself on being a people business and with 
that nurtures a culture of empowerment and innovation 
that is rewarding to be part of.
TALENT
RICHARD BROOK  
DIVISIONAL 
MARKETING 
INTEGRATION 
DIRECTOR, GLOBAL 
EXHIBITIONS
// I spend a lot of time 
travelling but the pay-off 
is meeting diverse groups 
of colleagues who all share 
the objective of delivering 
successful events. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 39
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  www.informa.com
40 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 CONNECT PEOPLE 
AND SHARE 
KNOWLEDGE
NETWORKING
FACILITATE
FORUMS
ESTABLISH
STRENGTHEN
RELATIONSHIPS
IDENTIFY
COMMUNITIES
VALUE PROTECTION
RELATIONSHIPS & RESOURCES
TALENT
INFRASTRUCTURE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
& LEARNING PLATFORMS
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING
The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all 
the Group’s training, learning, conference, advisory and 
congress businesses. It organises content-driven events 
and programmes that provide a platform for communities 
to meet, network and share knowledge. It runs around 
3,000 conferences and training events across the globe 
each year, covering a range of subject areas, but with 
a particular focus on Life Sciences, TMT and Finance. 
Our events include Bio-Europe, SuperReturn, 
Funds Forum and the Broadband World Series.
This Division accounts for 22% of Informa’s revenue.
CONNECTING AND ENGAGING COMMUNITIES
The business model in Knowledge & Networking aims to 
connect like-minded individuals within a community or 
niche and facilitate the sharing of knowledge and insight. 
Value lies in content, Brands and networks.
Producing these events well requires a wide range of skills, 
knowledge and experience. At one end of the spectrum, 
generating attractive content is critical. This is a research-
driven operation: identifying key developments or themes 
within communities, attracting relevant and interesting 
speakers to bring them to life, and then pulling together 
a format and agenda that will engage the audience. This 
requires the Division to be an expert in its chosen verticals, 
to live and breathe the industry, to build strong relationships 
with key decision makers within these communities.
The quality of its content drives its reputation. Engaging 
events that attract the best speakers and become a regular 
fixture for a community become Brands in their own right. 
Industries congregate around them to learn about the 
latest developments and network with peers.
At the other end of the spectrum, the Division’s business 
is about execution. Co-ordinating events effectively is 
complex and time-consuming, with many different 
stakeholders to manage, often under time pressure.
Increasingly, producing effective and popular events is 
about innovating. The prevalence of free content online 
means the attraction of individual speakers is sometimes 
not enough. The Division has to add more value for 
attendees, providing a better return on investment 
to justify their presence. It is about engagement – both 
around an event, providing continuous community 
engagement and relevant content, and also at an event, 
providing a mechanism to enable attendees to connect 
with relevant people and encourage networking.
BUSINESS MODEL
 CORE OFFERING
 VALUE DRIVERS
 ENABLERS
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 41
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  // Knowledge & Networking identifies and 
frames the business issues of today and 
tomorrow, and is deeply connected with 
leading industry thinkers and speakers. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
42 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 MARKET TRENDS
The global events market generates in excess of $200bn 
annually, dominated by small operators 
The market is cyclical, fluctuating with the wider 
economic cycle 
Market participants vary, from professional producers 
to corporates and not-for-profits 
The internet and social media have lowered barriers to 
entry, making it easier to identify and target communities
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Deliver positive organic growth run rate by the end of 2015
Migrate from a spot transaction to a community 
engagement model
Focus and scale around three priority verticals of Finance, 
Life Sciences and TMT
Harness technology to drive differentiation in products 
and marketing
Focus on large events with strong Brands, multiple 
revenue streams and geo-cloning potential
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014
Increased focus by separating Knowledge & Networking 
and Global Exhibitions
Appointment of Andrew Mullins as Divisional Chief Executive 
and creation of divisional senior management team
Strong performance in Life Sciences and large-scale 
Finance events
US West coast TMT operations established and major 
Internet of Things event launched
Simplified operating structure and targeted 
investment programme 
MARKET FOCUS AND PRODUCT INNOVATION
Knowledge & Networking’s business ranges from providing 
one-to-one web-training programmes to high intensity small 
seminars to large sector-leading international conferences.
Every year Knowledge & Networking creates and runs around 
3,000 events. Approximately 80% of its revenue is derived from 
conference activity. 
Conferences are a content-rich, research-based operation. The 
Division identifies and frames the business issues of today and 
tomorrow, and is deeply connected with leading industry thinkers 
and speakers. It is therefore able to marry high value content with 
engaging delivery, connecting those who know with those who 
want, or need, to know.
These characteristics are very different from those of an Exhibition 
business, where the skill is in building platforms for commerce, 
bringing together relevant buyers and sellers to trade. This 
is one of the reasons the Group decided to split its Events 
Division in two in 2014, creating Global Exhibitions and 
Knowledge & Networking. 
This split also allows the Division to increase the focus on its 
conference and learning activities by breaking out their financials. 
It brings the various individually run businesses together to be 
run as a cohesive unit, further improving focus and enabling it 
to leverage its scale and knowhow more effectively.
In 2014, revenue in Knowledge & Networking was £246.2m, 
slightly down on the previous year. This partly reflects the 
challenging conditions in markets such as Europe and Australia, 
but the historical lack of focus and reluctance to invest and 
innovate are also factors.
The Division’s businesses operate across a wide range of 
industries. It has set about focusing its efforts into the three 
verticals where it has a particularly strong presence and well-
established Brands. These are Finance, Life Sciences, and TMT. 
REVENUE
£246.2m
(2013: £256.1m)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£41.5m
(2013: £47.0m)
PROPORTION OF 
GROUP REVENUE
22%
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 43
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING (CONTINUED)
In 2014, Life Sciences performed well, with strong growth across 
the EBD Group series of events, as did large-scale Finance events 
such as SuperReturn. 
It is also concentrating its geographic footprint in strategic regions. 
It operates in around 80 countries but the reality is that it does not 
need presence on the ground in order to exploit the market 
opportunity. The majority of its profitability is derived from content 
that is generated in the US, the UK and the Middle East. This led 
to the expansion of its US presence recently, with the opening of 
a West Coast TMT operation. By contrast, the Division believes 
that it can become even more effective at exporting ideas and 
Brands into smaller markets and this led to the closure of its 
Johannesburg office in 2014.
Knowledge & Networking is putting greater emphasis on larger 
events, where the rewards are higher and there is the potential to 
develop strong Brands that are recognised meeting points for a 
community. Examples include Bio-Science within Life Sciences 
and the Broadband World Forum within TMT. The top 25% 
of events account for around 70% of the Division’s revenue. 
Nonetheless, the thousands of smaller conferences and learning 
events it runs still have a place as these are where most of the 
large events begin. But it can be more targeted and efficient in its 
approach to these events, focusing on profitability and verticals 
that offer the most potential for growth. This is illustrated by the 
ambitious launch of a major Internet of Things event by its new 
US TMT operation in 2015.
In 2014, the Division appointed Andrew Mullins as Chief Executive 
of this newly established Division. Andrew’s background is in 
Brands and content, having previously been Chief Executive 
of the Independent and Evening Standard Newspaper Group.
Following the formation of a senior management team, which 
includes a blend of internal transfers and external hires, a plan 
has been developed to simplify the structure of the business 
and further increase its focus. This includes a programme of 
investment in a range of organic initiatives as part of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan. 
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH
The global events market is very large, estimated at over $200bn 
annually including all formats and varieties.
Market participants vary widely. There are a number of professional 
event producers similar to Informa, although none with its depth 
and global reach. Some specialise in particular geographies or 
sectors while others are generalists, opportunistically targeting 
areas of current interest. This includes some of the Exhibition 
groups, who produce ad hoc conferences to run in tandem 
with trade shows.
Increasingly, other corporates are also organising conferences 
and events. Often these are non-core initiatives, designed to 
leverage a Brand or support the main focus of the business. 
This means profitability is sometimes not the main objective, 
with companies using conferences as a loss leader to generate 
content and fuel other areas of the business. 
This trend is increasing the level of competition in the event 
market. Historically, it was more difficult for these new entrants 
to launch events but the internet and the rise of social media 
have made it easier, providing readily identifiable communities 
and networks to target. 
The conference and learning market tends to be cyclical, 
reflecting the wider macro economy. The majority of income is 
generated through corporate budgets, which mirror the cycle. 
Hence, in tough times expenditure on conferences comes under 
pressure with less flexibility for spend on delegate fees and 
sponsorship. The more established an event and the more 
it is viewed as a critical congregation point for a community, 
the more resilient it is likely to be. 
This cyclical bias is reflected in the recent regional trading 
backdrop, with Continental Europe proving particularly tough 
and regions such as the US and the Middle East more buoyant.
FUTURE POTENTIAL – CONTINUOUS 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
The conference and training market is dynamic and fast moving. 
While it is sensitive to economic conditions, innovative and 
cutting-edge events can still perform well throughout the cycle. 
If an event is viewed as a “must attend” for a community, it will 
always attract an audience. 
However, competition is fiercer than ever and relevant content 
is increasingly available for free online. This puts the emphasis 
on being flexible and innovative, developing alternative income 
streams and offering attendees added value through 
new initiatives. 
In order to achieve this, the Knowledge & Networking Division 
needs to evolve its approach to markets and customers and 
focus its efforts on attracting them. It needs a fresh approach, 
to break free from the mould of the traditional conference and 
innovate, harnessing the power of digital technology. 
Led by the new management team, this transformation is already 
under way. The vision is to become an invaluable, continuous and 
timely originator and facilitator of knowledge exchange. This will 
be enabled via the creation of year-round, sector-leading interactive 
communities, generating insight, engagement and opportunities. 
This shifts the relationship with customers from one of a “point 
transaction” to one of continuous engagement and partnership. 
In the year ahead, the Division will be investing to turn this vision 
into reality, improving its digital capabilities and leveraging its 
expertise in innovative areas such as Partnering. It will also 
continue to increase its focus on priority verticals and geographies 
where the potential returns are more attractive. It comes into the 
year with positive momentum, giving it confidence it can meet 
its target to return to a positive organic growth run rate by the 
end of 2015.
www.informa.com
44 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 I am the Managing Director of the EBD Group, and we are 
the leading partnering group for the Life Sciences industry. 
When friends and family ask what we do, the shortest 
answer is that we provide professional speed dating 
for the biotech industry. The slightly longer answer is 
that the most innovative biotech companies and large 
pharma companies rely on our tools and events to start 
partnerships that will bring new medicines to patients.
My job is rewarding on many different levels: providing 
value to the Life Sciences industry and working closely 
with these incredibly smart executives and scientists is 
quite humbling. There is no better reward than when a 
company reports important milestones on a promising 
drug, and I know that the partnership was initiated at 
one of our events. 
Also, working in such an international company and in 
an industry that doesn’t have borders is fascinating. I am 
a German living in California, and on any given day I will 
interact with colleagues, partners and clients from China, 
Ecuador, Turkey, France, Israel etc.
But probably the best aspect of my job is leading the 
EBD team, a group of people with unmatched attention 
to detail and dedication to the company. We have a very 
dynamic team of strong individuals who are never shy to 
speak their mind and get engaged to improve processes 
and thus our products.
TALENT
ANNA CHRISMAN 
MANAGING DIRECTOR, 
EBD GROUP
// Probably the best 
aspect of my job is 
leading the EBD team, 
a group of people with 
unmatched attention 
to detail and dedication 
to the company. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 45
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  www.informa.com
46 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 THE TEAM BEHIND  
THE TEAMS
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
GLOBAL SUPPORT
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Identifying, investing and nurturing internal and external talent
Developing, implementing and supporting Group 
strategic direction 
Ensuring Informa meets its obligations operationally 
and legally
Providing capital for investment in projects and acquisitions
Implementing and supporting best practice in areas such 
as compliance, communication, finance and Branding
Co-ordinating business planning and performance 
management across the Group
Building trust in the Informa Brand
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014
Re-domicile of head office from Switzerland back to London
Co-ordination of strategic review of Group operations 
and markets
Creation of the Executive Management Team
Development of new operating model, providing clear lines 
of authority between Group and Operating Divisions
Development of the Growth Acceleration Plan in partnership 
with operating Divisions
Successful launch of an employee share matching 
scheme, ShareMatch
SIMPLIFIED STRUCTURE, FOCUS AND EFFICIENCY
One of the early tasks for Global Support in 2014 was to 
complete the re-domicile of the Group to the UK after four years 
in Switzerland. This was a complicated process, pulling on 
resources across the Legal, Tax, Finance and Communications 
teams. This was part of the strategy to simplify the executive 
management structure and business operations of the Group. 
To coincide with the return, Informa launched a new Group-
wide employee share scheme. This encourages employees 
to invest in the Group, with every two shares bought by an 
employee matched by a free one from Group. Prior to the 
launch of ShareMatch, share ownership across the Group was 
very low, at around 3% of employees. ShareMatch has proved 
popular though, with more than 10% of employees now having 
signed up in regions where it is currently available.
Early in 2014, Informa launched a Group-wide strategic review, 
assessing the attractions and opportunities of the markets 
where we operate, and the structure and capabilities across the 
Group to exploit them. This was the first time such an in-depth 
study had been carried out and it involved detailed data 
collection and analysis from all the Operating Divisions. This 
process was co-ordinated by a small, central team within the 
Strategy function, who worked closely with teams from each 
of the Divisions. 
The findings from the review provided the basis for the 
development of the 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan, 
the Group’s new all-encompassing strategy. This was 
announced in July and was fully effective from January 2015. 
The development of the Growth Acceleration Plan was again 
led by the Strategy function, in close collaboration with 
members of the Executive Management Team, functional 
experts and other divisional representatives. A small project 
management team has since been assembled to manage the 
implementation and support for the Growth Acceleration Plan 
from 2015, with particular focus on the £70m–£90m investment 
programme, which is an important component of it.
We worked hard in 2014 to improve the efficiency of our Shared 
Service Centre (“SSC”) activities. We consolidated the number 
of geographic locations we now operate three hubs, in the UK, 
the US and Singapore. This has enabled us to service the 
various offices more effectively and improve our cost-efficiency. 
Following the change in operating structure in 2014, 
Informa has moved to four Operating Divisions. Their 
objective is to deliver the best results in their chosen 
markets. Our fifth Division – Global Support – delivers 
the support services to make that possible.
Global Support provides functional services, acting as a 
facilitator for the Operating Divisions: supplying capital, 
improving efficiency, providing strategic advice, ensuring 
compliance with regulations etc. As the Group grows in 
scale and complexity, Global Support will become more 
important in connecting different parts of the Group and 
ensuring we run our businesses as efficiently as possible.
Global Support comprises a number of separate functions: 
Strategy & Planning, Talent & Transformation, Finance, 
Tax & Treasury, Technology, Capital Allocation, 
Communications, Legal and Intellectual Property.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 47
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGY, BUSINESS PLANNING 
AND CORPORATE FINANCE
This department is responsible for mapping out business goals 
and developing Group-wide strategy. This involves detailed 
planning and analysis of market and business trends. It also 
includes the identification and pursuit of business development 
opportunities and potential acquisitions, all in close partnership 
with the Operating Divisions. 
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
The Corporate Communications team incorporates the internal 
and external communications, investor relations, Brand and 
corporate responsibility functions. The team helps manage 
internal and external perception of the Group with all our 
stakeholders, by defining standards and values, creating 
assets and delivering targeted messaging. 
On the investor relations side, the team is responsible for 
communicating with financial markets, managing shareholder 
relationships and attracting new investors to the Group.
GROUP FINANCE, TAX AND TREASURY
The Group Finance function co-ordinates and consolidates 
financial and non-financial information from across the Group. 
This is used internally by the Operating Divisions, management 
and the Board to assess performance, and identify risks 
and opportunities. 
Group Finance co-ordinates the annual budgeting process, 
setting targets for the year ahead and tracking performance 
against them. It also acts as the steward of the Group’s capital, 
assessing potential investment projects.
Working alongside Group Finance, the Group Tax function 
ensures that tax affairs are managed effectively and efficiently, 
ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and payment of 
tax liabilities. The Group Tax function also ensures we are not 
involved in, or party to, any tax practices that could harm the 
reputation and trust Informa has gained over many years.
This team also includes the Treasury function which manages 
the Group’s debt finances, ensuring we have an attractive cost 
of capital and adequate liquidity to satisfy working capital and 
other investment requirements.
SHARED SERVICE CENTRES
The three SSCs in the UK, the US and Singapore provide 
the powerful back-office support that allows our Divisions the 
freedom to focus on their operational roles. By centralising 
certain tasks, they can leverage scale to drive efficiency in 
cost and process. 
Activities include standard financial support such as general 
ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, 
budgeting, taxation, compliance and forecasting, all of which 
feed directly into Group Finance. It is also responsible for 
customer operations support ranging from purchase through 
to product delivery.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Informa IP GmbH owns, manages and protects a central portfolio 
of intellectual property assets for the collective benefit of the 
Group. Creative ideas – whether new products, technology 
or Brands – are legally protected to ensure they have the 
opportunity to reap their full potential value. The team has 
expertise in finance, law, Brand management and protection. 
LEGAL
The central Legal team provides expert advice on issues such 
as commercial contracts, compliance and corporate transactions. 
At both Group and Divisional levels, the Legal team negotiates, 
advises and offers general legal support as required. The 
Compliance function ensures we meet our legal and regulatory 
obligations and act ethically to accepted best practices. 
The Company Secretary also sits within this team, ensuring 
the maintenance of corporate governance standards. 
TALENT, TRANSFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY
People are at the heart of everything we do at Informa. 
Finding and retaining the right calibre of people who share 
our values, spirit and ambition is a vital component of the 
Group’s future success. 
Our Human Resource teams manage this process effectively, 
working closely with management to build the most effective 
teams across the Group, adding new skills and expertise where 
required, while nurturing and developing existing talent.
When we acquire companies, we take great care to ensure 
a smooth integration so that the transition for new colleagues 
is a positive one. We assign an Integration Officer to each 
transaction for this purpose, who acts as an interface for 
communication and process management.
Technology is another core element of our strategy, both at 
Group and Divisional level. From a product standpoint, we 
are essentially a digital company, with technology woven 
into the fabric of most of the products and services we offer. 
We also employ cutting-edge technologies such as powerful 
customer relationship management platforms, finance systems 
and marketing tools to maximise efficiency. 
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS
GLOBAL SUPPORT (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
48 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 I started working at Informa’s UK Shared Service Centre  
in April 2007 as a Finance Administrator working on  
the publishing royalties for Taylor & Francis. Informa 
supported me through my AAT qualification by giving 
me the opportunity to take on additional tasks to develop 
my accounting skills. I continued my studies after AAT 
by pursuing my ACCA qualification, again supported 
by Informa. 
I then moved into an accounting role where I prepared 
the balance sheet reconciliations and the management 
accounts for the UK SSC and Technology departments, 
which progressed into the role of Assistant Business 
Analyst. This gave me exposure to rolling forecasts and 
budgeting. In 2014 I became ACCA qualified and stepped 
into a Senior Accountant role supporting Knowledge & 
Networking’s Technology, Media and Telecoms business, 
where I developed my role further and gained 
understanding of another Informa business. 
My most recent promotion to Reporting Accountant 
continues to provide new challenges and further career 
development such as the responsibility for managing staff. 
Informa has been supportive and allowed me to progress 
my career by providing experience and knowledge. The 
Company is exciting and varied, which can only continue 
to provide opportunities in the future.
TALENT
LINDA CLARK 
REPORTING 
ACCOUNTANT , 
UK SSC
// Informa has been 
supportive and allowed 
me to progress my career 
by providing experience 
and knowledge. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 49
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  50 Informa PLC UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
SUSTAINED 
VALUE DURING 
MEASURED 
CHANGE...
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 51
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
BUSINESS REVIEW
These results, achieved against 
significant currency headwinds, 
deliver on our promise of improved 
earnings, increased dividends and 
stronger cash flow in 2014.
T o have achieved this outcome whilst 
implementing the first phase of our 
Growth Acceleration Plan – which 
included a new operating structure, 
balance sheet refinancing and several 
targeted acquisitions - is a testament 
to the quality of our people, improved 
operating discipline and a growing 
international presence. The underlying 
business performance, combined with 
initial momentum from our growth 
strategy, underpins the proposed 
increase to the final dividend.
In 2014, we conducted a detailed 
portfolio review, leading to increased 
focus and simplification of our 
business operations. A review 
of our balance sheet has also 
led to the write down of certain 
underperforming Datamonitor assets. 
Following a year of Measured Change, 
we are now focused on accelerating 
growth in all four Operating Divisions. 
Assuming current exchange rates 
persist, in 2015 we intend to deliver 
another year of adjusted EPS growth 
alongside our commitment to further 
dividend growth and over £30m of 
investment into the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
T
he Group reported a robust operating 
performance in 2014, successfully 
delivering growth in earnings and cash 
flow whilst implementing the first phase 
of the Growth Acceleration Plan. Strict 
operating discipline, combined with a 
balanced, international portfolio, were key 
to this result, with organic growth within the Global Exhibitions 
and Academic Publishing Divisions more than offsetting 
some weakness within Knowledge & Networking and 
Business Intelligence Divisions.
The fluctuation in exchange rates had a marked impact on 
reported financials, mainly due to the strength of sterling 
(“GBP”) versus the US dollar (“USD”) during most of the year. 
If exchange rates had remained constant at 2013 average 
rates, Group revenue in 2014 would have been £39.6m higher, 
adjusted operating profit £12.7m higher and adjusted diluted 
earnings per share (“EPS”) 1.8p higher. 
This implies constant currency adjusting EPS of 42.1p in 
2014, equating to earnings growth of 4.5%. 
The commentary below includes statutory and adjusted 
measures. We believe adjusted operating profit is a 
useful additional measure in monitoring divisional 
trading performance.
The reconciliation from statutory to adjusted operating profit 
for each Division can be found on page 56.
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING
 
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Actual  
%
Organic  
%
Revenue 408.9 407.8 0.3 3.0
Statutory operating profit 106.3 101.9 4.3
Adjusted operating profit 150.0 150.9 (0.6) 3.3
Adjusted operating 
margin (%) 36.7 37.0
The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist books 
and journals. Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it 
is recognised internationally as one of the world’s leading 
education publishers through its five leading imprints: Taylor & 
Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent 
OA. It has a portfolio of more than 100,000 book titles and 
2,100 journals available in both print and digital formats, across 
subject areas within Humanities and Social Sciences, and 
Science, Technology and Medicine. 
In 2014, Academic Publishing represented 36% of Group 
revenue and 45% of adjusted operating profit. 
www.informa.com
52 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data, 
intelligence and insight to businesses, helping them make 
better decisions, gain competitive advantage and enhance 
return on investment. It has a portfolio of more than 400 digital 
subscription products, providing critical intelligence to niche 
communities within five core industry verticals: Pharma & 
Healthcare, Finance, Maritime & Law, Technology/Media/
Telecoms and Agriculture/Food. 
In 2014, Business Intelligence represented 25% of Group 
revenue and 23% of adjusted operating profit. 
The Division reported an organic revenue decline of 8.5%, 
reflecting challenging trading conditions, which resulted in 
lower one-off product sales and a decline in advertising 
revenue. Subscription trends continue to vary by vertical and 
product but average renewal rates remain low by historical 
levels. Addressing this is a priority for the new management 
team, which brings with it substantial experience in the areas 
of sales, subscription management and content delivery.
The year saw a significant amount of change within the Division, 
in terms of both structure and management and, inevitably, this 
created some uncertainty and disruption. This contributed to 
the weak performance in 2014 but it leaves the business better 
resourced and with a structure more aligned to customers in 
its core markets, providing a solid framework through which 
to implement the Growth Acceleration Plan.
Following the portfolio review we undertook in 2014, we 
announced in November that we were considering alternatives 
for the Consumer information and forecasting businesses within 
Business Intelligence. This process is ongoing. These include 
some strong Brands, such as Verdict, which are relatively small 
players in a broad, competitive market. 
In addition, after careful consideration we have decided to 
fully provide for the loans to the Chinese Pharmaceutical data 
business. Similarly, after reviewing the balance sheet carrying 
value of all our assets, we have taken an impairment against 
certain information assets, including the Consumer assets and 
some pharmaceutical products, which were acquired as part 
of the Datamonitor acquisition in 2007 .
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS
 
2014  
£m
2013
1
 
£m
Actual  
%
Organic  
%
Revenue 200.2 160.2 25.0 18.9
Statutory operating profit 24.5 23.6 3.8
Adjusted operating profit 67.4 50.0 34.8 18.2
Adjusted operating 
margin (%) 33.7 31.2
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures. 
It was another consistent performance by the Academic 
Publishing Division in 2014, recording organic revenue growth 
of 3.0% against what was a challenging comparable in 2013. 
In addition, we continued with our bolt-on acquisition strategy, 
completing a number of small deals during the year, including 
Sharpe and Landes BioScience. However, overall reported 
revenue was flat, reflecting the US bias of the business and, 
hence, the negative impact of sterling’s strength against the 
US dollar (“USD”).
Journal subscriptions remained robust with high renewal rates 
and continued strong growth in both article submissions and 
content usage. Cogent OA, our open access imprint, continues 
to track ahead of its initial plan. Fifteen journal titles are now 
accepting articles and submission rates have remained 
consistently ahead of schedule.
Our Books business had another good year, particularly in 
Humanities and Social Science, which performed strongly 
in the US. In November, we published the 6th Edition of The 
Molecular Biology of the Cell, one of our most popular and 
well-known textbooks, selling nearly 25,000 copies by year end.
Ebook sales varied month-to-month through 2014 and while 
overall growth remained strong, the trend suggests print will 
remain important for some time. We continue to take a neutral 
approach to product format. All our production and design 
processes are digital but we have the flexibility to supply 
customers in the format they want with relatively low 
differences in marginal cost.
We continue to target customers who previously submitted 
orders through Swets, the now bankrupt subscription agent. 
We estimate cash receipts were adversely impacted by 
about £15m in 2014 due to the delay in re-routing customers. 
We expect this cash shortfall largely to be recouped during 
the first half of 2015.
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
 
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Actual  
%
Organic  
%
Revenue 281.7 305.9 (7.9) (8.5)
Statutory operating  
(loss)/profit (155.2) 49.9 (411.0)
Adjusted operating profit 75.2 86.8 (13.4) (16.8)
Adjusted operating 
margin (%) 26.7 28.4
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 53
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
BUSINESS REVIEW (CONTINUED)
The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all 
the Group’s training, learning, conference, advisory and 
congress businesses. It organises content-driven events 
and programmes that provide a platform for communities to 
meet, network and share knowledge. It runs around 3,000 
conferences and training events across the globe each year, 
covering a range of subject areas, but with a particular focus 
on Life Sciences, Technology/Media/Telecoms and Finance.
In 2014, Knowledge & Networking represented 22% of 
Group revenues and 12% of adjusted operating profit. 
The performance across the Knowledge & Networking 
Division was mixed. Our major regional hubs in the UK, the 
Middle East and North America all reported year-on-year 
growth but this was offset by weakness elsewhere, notably in 
Australia and Continental Europe. In addition, the geo-political 
backdrop in Eastern Europe had a marked impact on activity 
levels in this region. Overall the Division reported an organic 
revenue decline of 3.2%, which translated into a lower operating 
margin, at 16.9%. 
As part of our drive to improve efficiency and focus the 
business in areas where we have well-established Brands and 
strong expertise, we took the decision to close our conference 
and training businesses in Johannesburg. We continue to run 
some selective events in Africa by exporting from our major 
hubs, but without the fixed cost of local infrastructure.
There were some strong individual performances through 
the year, notably from the EBD Group’s portfolio of Partnering 
events for the Life Sciences industry. Its innovative model, 
which uses technology to enhance the networking potential of 
its conferences, continues to gain strong traction in the market. 
Delegate numbers are growing healthily and re-sign rates are 
far higher than for more traditional conferences.
This is a consistent theme across the Division, with those 
events where there is investment in the delegate experience, 
deep community engagement and a focus on building 
long-term Brand equity generally performing better. This is 
something the new management team will look to build on 
as it implements its new strategy through the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
The Global Exhibitions Division organises transaction-oriented 
Exhibitions and trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers 
across different industries and communities with a powerful 
platform to meet face to face, build relationships and conduct 
business. Informa has a portfolio of over 150 Exhibitions, 
serving a number of core verticals, including Health & Nutrition, 
Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture. 
In 2014, Global Exhibitions represented 17% of Group 
revenues and 20% of adjusted operating profit. 
It was a strong year for the Global Exhibitions Division, 
recording organic revenue growth of 18.9%. This included 
the benefit of both the Brazilian biennial, Formobile, and the 
quadrennial Exhibition, IPEX, but even excluding these events, 
the Division delivered good double-digit growth. The strong 
revenue performance translated into a higher operating margin, 
at 33.7%, a level which reflects the underlying quality of our 
portfolio of Exhibitions and trade shows.
The Middle East region was particularly strong, led by the 
large Exhibitions that take place early in the year, such as 
Arab Health and Middle East Electricity. But there were 
also strong performances by European Exhibitions such 
as Vitafoods, and in Asia, events such as China Beauty Expo, 
which was acquired in 2013. 
Our strategy in Global Exhibitions is to blend ongoing organic 
expansion – through a combination of higher space sales, 
optimising yield and geo-cloning – with targeted acquisitions 
in priority verticals and geographies. 
In 2014, a key objective was to establish a presence in the 
important US market and we achieved this through the 
acquisitions of Virgo Group in August and Hanley Wood 
Exhibitions in December. Both are highly complementary to 
our existing vertical mix and provide good potential for revenue 
synergies over time through cross-marketing, transfer of best 
practice and geo-cloning. Further details on these acquisitions 
is provided in Note 19.
In 2015, we expect North America to represent more than 35% 
of divisional revenue.
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING
 
2014  
£m
2013
1
£m
Actual  
%
Organic 
 %
Revenue 246.2 256.1 (3.9) (3.2)
Statutory operating  
profit/(loss) 22.0 (29.4) 174.8
Adjusted operating profit 41.5 47.0 (11.7) (17.2)
Adjusted operating 
margin (%) 16.9 18.4
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures. 
www.informa.com
54 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 TRADING OUTLOOK
We have not assumed any marked improvement in recent 
macro trends within our budgets for 2015. Regional variances 
are set to continue, with a relatively robust outlook in North 
America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, whilst Continental 
Europe and Latin America remain more challenging.
Internally, much focus will be on the Growth Acceleration Plan 
as we start to invest in a variety of growth initiatives across the 
Group. We anticipate investing £30m–£40m in 2015. This will 
impact earnings, through increased operating expenditure and 
the depreciation from higher capital spending. We expect 
operational benefits quickly but the full financial return will take 
time to materialise. Our goal remains to have all four Divisions 
delivering a positive run rate in organic growth by end 2016.
Our strong operating and financial discipline, combined with 
good early momentum in key markets, gives us confidence 
that, at current exchange rates, Informa should be able to 
deliver further growth in adjusted earnings per share in 2015, 
even allowing for the impact of the investment in the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
This outlook also enables us to commit to increase the annual 
dividend per share by a minimum of 2% per annum through 
the period of the 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING
The Academic Publishing market remains stable, although 
budget trends vary by geography and sector. We anticipate 
another solid year for journal subscriptions in 2015 alongside 
further progress in the roll-out of our open access offering at 
Cogent OA. Additionally, the merger of our Medical Journals 
business into the Division will generate cost savings in 2015 
and growth beyond. In Books, we will continue to expand the 
front list in niche subject areas, which should support further 
revenue growth, and the business will remain flexible in its 
approach to ebooks, reflecting customer demand. 
The outlook points to another consistent performance. Our 
differentiated operating model and long-term approach to 
industry relationships position us well to deliver growth at, 
or ahead of, the market.
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
We are not assuming any significant change in the market 
backdrop through 2015. While there have been signs of 
stabilisation in parts of the Finance market sector, the 
Pharmaceutical sector remains challenging, with tight 
controls on procurement amongst many customers.
The new Divisional Management Team is moving quickly to 
focus on customer relationships and subscription management, 
ahead of investing more broadly in product innovation via 
the Growth Acceleration Plan. We are anticipating steady 
operational progress in 2015. The subscription nature of the 
business means this will take time to translate into revenue 
growth but we take some encouragement from recent trends 
in deferred income. The business is now organised around 
five priority verticals and 40 major Brands, closely tracked by 
a detailed matrix of operating metrics. We remain confident 
that with focused management we can return Business 
Intelligence to a positive run rate of organic growth by the 
end of 2016.
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS
The global market for Exhibitions remains structurally and 
cyclically robust. Informa is now an established international 
player, with strong positions in North America, the Middle 
East, Brazil, China and France, with particular strengths in 
Construction & Real Estate, Health & Nutrition, Beauty and 
Pop Culture. The breadth and quality of this portfolio give us 
confidence that we can deliver further strong organic growth 
in 2015, albeit year-on-year comparisons will be impacted by 
the absence of biennial and quadrennial events. Our large 
Exhibitions in the first quarter, including Arab Health in Dubai 
and World of Concrete in the US, have performed strongly.
The pipeline for potential acquisitions remains healthy. We will 
remain proactive and disciplined in those assets we add to 
our portfolio and those that do not meet our strategic and 
financial criteria. 
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING
The outlook for our conference and learning businesses 
continues to vary by region. Prospects in the UK, North 
America and the Middle East are good, particularly for our 
larger, Branded events and those with value added services 
such as Partnering. 
The strengthened Divisional Management Team is pursuing a 
new strategy based on deeper community engagement across 
core verticals where we have established Brands and strong 
relationships. It is targeting a positive organic growth run rate 
by the end of 2015.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 55
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL REVIEW
OVERVIEW
The Group reported a robust operating performance in 2014, 
delivering growth in earnings and cash flow. This leaves the 
Group in a strong financial position, with the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA at 2.2 times. 
GROUP
2014 
£m
2013
1
 
£m
Actual 
%
Organic 
%
Revenue 1,137.0 1,130.0 0.6 0.7
Statutory operating 
(loss)/profit (2.4) 146.0 (101.6)
Adjusted operating profit 334.1 334.7 (0.2) (2.6)
Adjusted operating 
margin (%) 29.4 29.6
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures. 
The Group’s revenue has stayed broadly constant at £1,137 .0m 
(2013: £1,130.0m). The statutory result decreased to a loss of 
£2.4m (2013: profit of £146.0m). This is primarily due to the 
increase in impairment charges during the year. 
The Group’s free cash flow strengthened to £232.5m (2013: 
£207 .8m). This is a strong result especially with the deferral of 
Swets subscription agent receipts of about £15m from 2014 
to 2015 in the Academic Publishing Division.
ADJUSTED AND STATUTORY RESULTS
In these full year results we refer to adjusted and statutory 
results and unless otherwise indicated the information 
reported is on a continuing basis. 
Adjusted results are prepared to provide a more comparable 
indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. 
This is in line with similar adjusted measures used by our peer 
companies. Adjusted results exclude adjusting items such as 
intangible asset amortisation and impairment charges. This 
adjusted measure is a sector-specific treatment and is not 
comparable with other sectors. A full list of adjusting items 
is provided in Note 2. 
In order to help understand the underlying performance of 
the Group, we consider adjusted operating profit to be a 
useful additional measure. Therefore to arrive at the adjusted 
operating profit of £334.1m (2013: £334.7m) the following 
adjusting items have been recognised:
SEGMENT REVENUE AND RESULTS
31 December 2014
Academic 
Publishing
 £m
Business 
Intelligence
£m
Global 
Exhibitions
£m
Knowledge &
Networking
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 408.9 281.7 200.2 246.2 1,137.0
Statutory operating profit/(loss) 106.3 (155.2) 24.5 22.0 (2.4)
Restucturing and reorganisation costs 2.5 10.5 3.0 4.7 20.7
Acquisition and integration costs 1.0 – 3.7 – 4.7
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration – (1.6) 1.6 (1.8) (1.8)
Intangible asset amortisation
1
40.2 16.2 20.9 16.6 93.9
Impairment – 205.3 13.7 – 219.0
Adjusted operating profit 150.0 75.2 67.4 41.5 334.1
1 
Excludes software and product development amortisation. 
www.informa.com
56 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 IMPAIRMENT
The Group conducted its annual review of potential future 
returns from its portfolio of businesses and investments, 
including balance sheet carrying values. 
In the Business Intelligence Division the carrying value of 
goodwill and intangible assets across the Consumer and 
Pharma & Healthcare businesses was impaired by £190.0m. 
The Group has also recognised an impairment charge of 
£13.5m relating to the loan receivable with China Medical 
Data Services, and an impairment charge of £1.8m for other 
intangible assets.
In the Global Exhibitions Division the goodwill and intangible 
assets of the events business in Melbourne were impaired by 
£12.5m. The Group has also recognised an impairment charge 
of £1.0m relating to the loan receivable with Expo Vinis, and 
an impairment charge of £0.2m for other intangible assets.
RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANISATION COSTS
Restructuring and reorganisation costs for the year of £20.7m 
(2013: £14.2m) principally relate to the strategic reorganisation 
undertaken within Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions 
and Knowledge & Networking, and the re-domicile of the 
Group from Switzerland back to the UK. The total costs 
comprise redundancy costs of £14.2m (2013: £10.7m), 
reorganisation costs of £2.1m (2013: £2.4m), re-domicile 
costs of £2.9m (2013: £0.6m) and vacant property provisions 
of £1.5m (2013: £0.5m). 
OTHER ADJUSTING ITEMS
A number of acquisitions were made during the year, and 
associated acquisition and integration costs of £4.7m have 
been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
During the year contingent consideration was re-measured 
by £1.8m, which is offset by related impairments to other 
intangible assets of £2.0m. 
TRANSLATION IMPACT
The Group is particularly sensitive to movements in the 
USD and the Euro against the GBP .
The Group receives approximately 48% of its revenues and 
incurs approximately 39% of its costs in USD or currencies 
pegged to USD. Each 1 cent movement in the USD to GBP 
exchange rate has a circa £3.4m impact on revenue, a circa 
£1.5m impact on adjusted operating profits and a circa 0.16p 
impact on adjusted diluted EPS. 
The Group receives approximately 8% of its revenues and 
incurs approximately 7% of its costs in Euros. Each 1 cent 
movement in the Euro to GBP exchange rate has a circa 
£0.7m impact on revenue, a circa £0.2m impact on adjusted 
operating profits and a circa 0.03p impact on adjusted 
diluted EPS. 
With both currencies, offsetting the movements in adjusted 
operating profit will be movements in interest and tax liabilities. 
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest 
rates, remain constant.
For debt covenant testing purposes, both profit and debt 
translation are calculated at the average rate of exchange 
during the relevant period.
LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES
The loss on disposal of £2.8m relates to the loss on disposal 
of Fashion Exposed events in Australia of £1.3m; and the final 
adjustments of £1.5m arising from the Corporate Training 
disposal that was completed on 30 September 2013. For the 
sale of the Fashion Exposed events, the consideration received 
was £0.4m and the carrying value of intangible assets was 
£1.7m, which resulted in a loss on disposal of £1.3m. This has 
been recognised as an adjusting item in the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
NET FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs, which consist principally of interest costs 
net of interest receivable, decreased by £2.0m from £27 .6m to 
£25.6m. The Group maintains a balance of fixed and floating 
rate debt partly through utilising derivative financial instruments. 
In addition, there is an exceptional finance cost of £1.2m 
relating to the excess interest charge on early repayment 
of the revolving credit facility in the year. This has been 
recognised as an adjusting item in the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
TAXATION
The Group tax credit on statutory profit before tax (“PBT”) was 
63.5% (2013: 10.7% charge). The statutory tax rate reported 
for both 2014 and 2013 was affected by impairment charges 
which were not deductible for tax purposes.
Across the Group, tax has been provided on adjusted profits 
at an adjusted tax rate of 20.3% (2013: 21.4% restated for joint 
ventures). This adjusted tax rate benefits from profits generated 
in low tax jurisdictions, and is lower than for the previous year 
due to lower tax rates in certain countries including the UK, 
and the impact of our US businesses qualifying for certain tax 
incentives related to their exports. 
During 2014, the Group paid £44.3m (2013: £71.4m restated) of 
corporation and similar taxes on profits, including approximately 
£25.0m (2013: £44.0m) of UK corporation tax. Payments in 
2013 included £15.0m in regard to matters agreed with 
HM Revenue & Customs in 2012. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 57
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  For 2014, tax credits arising in respect of prior year matters, 
including adjustments to the tax impact of disposals and 
obtaining certain US tax incentives for 2013, have been 
presented as adjusting items in the accounts. The impact 
of the closure of UK and overseas tax issues resulted in a 
£13.7m release of tax provisions in 2013 which was reflected 
as an adjusting item in the accounts.
Our effective tax charge reconciles to cash taxes paid 
as follows:
2014  
£m
2013 
 £m
Tax charge on adjusted PBT per Consolidated 
Income Statement 62.8 65.9
Deferred taxes (7.3) 2.0
Current tax on adjusting items (22.1) (17.1)
Taxes paid in relation to earlier years less 2014 
taxes payable in later periods 9.1 16.6
Withholding and other tax payments 2.2 1.5
Total corporate taxes paid 44.7 68.9
Taxes refunded from German authorities (0.4) (0.2)
Taxes paid in relation to discontinued operations – 2.7
Net income taxes paid per Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement 44.3 71.4
The current tax on adjusting items figure of £22.1m (2013: 
£17 .1m) includes £16.0m (2013: £13.4m) of current tax 
deductions for amortisation of intangibles. This is a recurring 
item which results in cash taxes paid each year being lower 
than the effective tax charge.
The Group’s Total Tax Contribution (“TTC”), which is made 
up of all material taxes paid out of profits and other material 
taxes generated by our businesses, was £168.1m in 2014. 
The UK element of our TTC was £81.6m. This is the first year 
for which we have reported TTC. Further details of our TTC 
will be provided in the Group’s Sustainability Report. 
EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations of 40.3p 
(2013: 40.1p) is ahead of 2013, while statutory diluted EPS 
is negative 8.6p (2013: positive 17 .1p). 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 12.9p per share 
(2013: 12.5p per share). This dividend will be paid on 28 May 
2015 to ordinary shareholders registered as of the close of 
business on 1 May 2015. This will result in a total dividend for 
the year of 19.3p per share (2013: 18.5p per share). Dividend 
cover has remained broadly consistent at 2.1 times total 
earnings (2013: 2.2 times) on an adjusted earnings basis.
CASH FLOW
The Group continues to generate cash flows with operating 
cash flow of £323.8m in 2014. This strength is reflected in a 
cash conversion rate, expressed as a ratio of operating cash 
flow (as calculated below) to adjusted operating profit, of 97% 
(2013: 98%). Operating cash flow is tracked to measure the 
conversion of operating profit into cash and therefore is used 
to provide a good indication of whether the required returns 
have been made by the divisional operations.
2014 
£m
2013
1
 £m
Adjusted operating profit from continuing 
operations 334.1 334.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6.1 6.4
Software and product development 
amortisation 12.1 15.7
Share-based payments 1.7 2.2
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations 354.0 359.0
Net capital expenditure (14.7) (14.4)
Working capital movement (net of restructuring 
and reorganisation accruals) (15.5) (15.4)
Operating cash flow from 
continuing operations 323.8 329.2
Restructuring and reorganisation (21.0) (20.1)
Net interest (26.0) (30.1)
Dividends received from joint ventures − 0.2
Taxation (44.3) (71.4)
Free cash flow 232.5 207.8
Operating cash flow of discontinued operations (3.8) 4.5
Acquisitions less disposals (369.0) (88.8)
Dividends paid to shareholders (114.0) (114.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (0.9) −
Net shares issued/(acquired) 204.1 (0.4)
Net funds flow (51.1) 9.1
Opening net debt (782.6) (802.4)
Non-cash items (2.4) (1.1)
Foreign exchange (40.1) 11.8
Closing net debt (876.2) (782.6)
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures. 
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
58 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 In the year ended 31 December 2014, before taking into 
account dividends, spend on acquisitions or proceeds from 
the sale of assets, the Group generated free cash flow of 
£232.5m (2013: £207 .8m). The increase year-on-year is 
principally caused by a decrease in taxation paid compared 
with 2013. In 2013 certain historical tax liabilities were settled 
with local tax authorities.
The increase in net debt arising from acquisitions was £371.5m 
(2013: £136.3m) which comprises current year acquisitions 
of £363.3m (2013: £132.0m) and consideration in respect of 
acquisitions completed in prior years of £8.2m (2013: £4.3m). 
This was offset by a decrease in net debt arising from disposals 
of £2.5m inflow (2013: £47 .5m inflow). 
Net debt increased by £93.6m from £782.6m to £876.2m, 
driven primarily by a cash outflow of £51.1m and exchange 
rate movements of £40.1m. During the year the Group paid 
dividends of £114.9m.
FINANCING AND BANK COVENANTS
In October 2014, the Group entered into a new five year 
revolving credit facility of £900.0m, of which £455.2m was 
drawn down at 31 December 2014. The facility matures in 
October 2019.
The principal financial covenant ratios under the private 
placement and revolving credit facilities are maximum net debt 
to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover 
of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually. At 31 December 2014 both 
financial covenants were comfortably achieved. The ratio of 
net debt to EBITDA was 2.2 times (2013: 2.2 times) calculated 
as per our bank agreement (using average exchange rate 
and adjusted for a full year’s trading from 2014 acquisitions). 
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable was 14.4 times 
(2013: 13.0 times).
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
During 2014 we have completed a number of bolt-on 
acquisitions and we strengthened our Global Exhibitions 
Division with the acquisitions of Virgo Group and 
Hanley Wood Exhibitions. 
Acquisitions are assessed on case-by-case basis against 
a broad set of financial and strategic criteria. For bolt-on 
acquisitions, these have to meet strict acquisition criteria which 
include delivering returns in excess of the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital in the first full year, being earnings 
enhancing in the first full year of ownership, and achieving 
a cash payback within seven years. However, for selective 
acquisitions, the Group will take a longer-term view to allow 
time for full integration of the acquired business, coupled with 
additional investment to maximise the long-term returns 
it generates. 
DEFERRED INCOME
Deferred income is £342.9m (2013: £315.9m) at 31 December 
2014, a 5% increase on a constant currency basis compared 
with the same date in 2013. Deferred income arises primarily 
from advance subscriptions and forward bookings for trade 
shows, Exhibitions or conferences. Subscriptions generated 
by our Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence 
businesses predominantly renew annually in advance and many 
trade shows and Exhibitions, because of their market leading 
status, receive commitments up to a year in advance. 
PENSIONS
The Group’s financial obligations to its pension schemes 
remain relatively small compared with the size of the Group, 
with net pension liabilities at 31 December 2014 of £10.1m 
(2013: £5.4m).
Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the 
defined benefit schemes in 2011, a revised deficit funding plan 
was agreed with the Trustees to eliminate the deficits in both 
schemes. The contributions paid towards reducing the scheme 
deficits will decrease from £3.5m in 2014 to £0.5m in 2015. 
The contributions for the ongoing service will be £nil in 2015 
as both schemes are closed to future accrual of benefits.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 15 January 2015, the Group completed the acquisition 
of 100% of the shares of Megaconvention, Inc., for initial 
consideration of £4.9m and further performance-related 
consideration estimated at £3.4m payable over two years. 
The sole event of the Company is Orlando MegaCon, an 
enthusiast Consumer show featuring exhibits and content 
from the sci-fi, horror, anime, gaming and TV genres, 
including merchandise, memorabilia and art.
GARETH WRIGHT
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 59
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The financial key performance 
indicators (“KPIs”) selected are 
used by management to monitor 
the Group’s progress in delivering 
its strategy of creating shareholder 
value by growing and managing 
our Academic Publishing, Business 
Intelligence, Global Exhibitions 
and Knowledge & Networking 
Divisions. Unless otherwise indicated 
the information reported is on a 
continuing basis.
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£m) ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS (pence) GEARING RATIO
Aim: To deliver a robust underlying profit performance
In 2014, adjusted profit was broadly flat despite the negative 
impact of currency movement.
Aim: Deliver consistent year-on-year adjusted EPS growth
In 2014, the Group delivered 0.5% growth in adjusted EPS.
Aim: To maintain balance sheet strength and flexibility
In 2014, the Group maintained significant debt covenant headroom.
 
 
Gearing ratio  
 
Maximum gearing ratio
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
250
300
350
290.0
313.3
330.5
334.7 334.1
A reconciliation of statutory operating profit/(loss) to adjusted operating 
profit per Division can be found on page 56.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
32.8
36.0
37.6
40.1 40.3
For more information on the EPS calculation, please refer to Note 16.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
2.3
2.1 2.1
2.2 2.2
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
For more information on the gearing ratio, please refer to page 59.
FREE CASH FLOW (£m) ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH DIVIDEND PER SHARE (pence)
Aim: Healthy conversion of profit into cash
In 2014, the Group continued to convert profits into cash at an 
attractive rate, growing its free cash flow by more than 10%.
Aim: To deliver continued organic revenue growth
In 2014, the Group delivered 0.7% organic revenue growth.
Aim: To deliver consistent dividend growth
In 2014, the Group proposed a 2.1% increase in dividend per share 
and committed to minimum growth of 2% throughout the period of 
the 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
50
100
150
200
250
211.5
187.2
219.5
207.8
232.5
More information on the free cash flow calculation can be found 
on page 58.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
0.1%
2.1%
-1.0%
1.5%
0.7%
The organic revenue growth per Division can be found on pages 52 to 54. 
The Group’s organic revenue growth is on page 56.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
14.0
16.8
18.5
18.9
19.3
More information on the dividend per share can be found in Note 15.
www.informa.com
60 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£m) ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS (pence) GEARING RATIO
Aim: To deliver a robust underlying profit performance
In 2014, adjusted profit was broadly flat despite the negative 
impact of currency movement.
Aim: Deliver consistent year-on-year adjusted EPS growth
In 2014, the Group delivered 0.5% growth in adjusted EPS.
Aim: To maintain balance sheet strength and flexibility
In 2014, the Group maintained significant debt covenant headroom.
 
 Gearing ratio  
 
Maximum gearing ratio
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
250
300
350
290.0
313.3
330.5
334.7 334.1
A reconciliation of statutory operating profit/(loss) to adjusted operating 
profit per Division can be found on page 56.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
32.8
36.0
37.6
40.1 40.3
For more information on the EPS calculation, please refer to Note 16.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
2.3
2.1 2.1
2.2 2.2
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
For more information on the gearing ratio, please refer to page 59.
FREE CASH FLOW (£m) ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH DIVIDEND PER SHARE (pence)
Aim: Healthy conversion of profit into cash
In 2014, the Group continued to convert profits into cash at an 
attractive rate, growing its free cash flow by more than 10%.
Aim: To deliver continued organic revenue growth
In 2014, the Group delivered 0.7% organic revenue growth.
Aim: To deliver consistent dividend growth
In 2014, the Group proposed a 2.1% increase in dividend per share 
and committed to minimum growth of 2% throughout the period of 
the 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
50
100
150
200
250
211.5
187.2
219.5
207.8
232.5
More information on the free cash flow calculation can be found 
on page 58.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
0.1%
2.1%
-1.0%
1.5%
0.7%
The organic revenue growth per Division can be found on pages 52 to 54. 
The Group’s organic revenue growth is on page 56.
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
14.0
16.8
18.5
18.9
19.3
More information on the dividend per share can be found in Note 15.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 61
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS
number of factors could potentially affect 
the Group’s operating results and financial 
position (“principal risk factors”). The Group 
adopts a risk management process which 
is intended to ensure a consistent and 
coherent approach to managing the 
principal risk factors that are described in 
this section. These principal risk factors have been identified by 
an assessment of their material impact and relative likelihood of 
occurrence to all or parts of the Group, and can be categorised 
as being either financial, commercial, reputational, ethical or 
regulatory risks. 
The Risk Committee is a sub-committee of, and is accountable 
to, the Audit Committee which, along with Internal Audit, 
provides oversight to help ensure that there is a system of 
suitable internal controls in place to mitigate the impact and 
likelihood of each principal risk factor. 
Policies and procedures have been implemented to assist with 
risk management. These are designed to help ensure a level of 
compliance across the Group, to support the identification of 
any new risks, and to enhance the Group’s ability to respond 
effectively to risks, if they crystallise. 
Each principal risk factor is assigned to an appropriate member 
of the Risk Committee, who is accountable to the Risk Committee 
for that risk. The principal risk factors are managed either at 
an operational level, Group level, or a combination of both. 
This section describes the principal risk factors that the 
Directors believe could materially affect the Group, but this is 
not an exhaustive list as other risks may arise or existing risks 
may materially increase in the future. These are listed in no 
order of priority, and beneath the description of each risk is 
a note of the main mitigating factors and actions the Group 
is taking to address that particular risk. 
1.  The Group’s businesses are affected by the economic 
conditions of the sectors and regions in which they 
and their customers operate and the markets in which 
the Group operates are highly competitive and subject 
to rapid change
The performance of the Group depends on the financial health 
and strength of its customers, which in turn is dependent on 
the economic conditions of the industries and geographic 
regions in which they operate. Traditionally, spending on parts 
of the Group’s products has been cyclical due to companies 
spending significantly less in times of economic uncertainty. 
The markets for the Group’s products are highly competitive 
and in a state of ongoing and uncertain change. If the Group is 
unable to successfully enhance and/or develop its products in 
a timely fashion, the Group’s revenue could be affected. There 
are also low barriers to entry in relation to certain parts of the 
Group’s businesses. 
Mitigation is achieved, where possible, through the Group’s 
diversification of its operations across vertical markets and 
geographies, which provides a broad customer base. The 
Group maintains a competitive advantage through ongoing 
investment in its products, reinforcing its market leading 
position in many markets.
2.  The Group’s continued growth depends, in part, 
on its ability to identify and complete acquisitions 
and its ability to expand the business into new 
geographic regions 
With new acquisitions there can be no assurances that the 
Group will achieve the expected return on its investment, 
particularly as the success of any acquisition also depends in 
part on the Group’s ability to integrate the acquired business 
or assets. Attractive acquisitions may be difficult to identify 
and conclude for a number of reasons, including competition 
among prospective buyers and economic uncertainty. 
The Group has formal investment criteria to identify suitable, 
earnings-enhancing, acquisition targets and employs experienced 
professionals to drive the acquisition process. Post-acquisition 
integration plans are prepared to ensure businesses are effectively 
integrated into the Group and that planned synergies are realised. 
In expanding its business geographically, both organically and 
by acquisition, the Group reviews risks relevant to particular 
geographies and formulates appropriate mitigation strategies 
on a case-by-case basis. 
A
 It is important to ensure we have 
effective and proportionate processes 
in place to control and manage risks 
faced by the Group as a whole. This 
is recognised in everything we do, and 
is fundamental to the performance 
of each of the business divisions. 
www.informa.com
62 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 3.  Reliance on or loss of key customers may reduce 
demand for the Group’s products
In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively 
inexpensive information have become available, particularly 
through the internet, and this trend is expected to continue. 
For example, some governmental and regulatory agencies 
have increased the amount of information they make publicly 
available at no cost. Such sources may reduce demand for 
the Group’s publishing products.
In the Global Exhibitions Division there are a number 
of Exhibitions that, individually, contribute significantly 
to profitability because of the size of the events and the 
relatively high gross profit margins earned by them.
To mitigate this risk, the Group continuously monitors 
changes in the marketplace and regularly seeks feedback 
from customers, adjusting its product offering in response 
where appropriate. The Group also invests in its products 
and delivery platforms.
4.  A major accident at an Exhibition or event 
The Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking 
Divisions organise events that can be attended by large 
numbers of visitors on any given day, which results in operational 
health and safety risks, including fire safety, structural collapse 
of a stand, food hygiene, crowd control, security, and access 
and egress in an emergency. Additionally, both Divisions do not 
normally own the venues they operate from, instead hiring floor 
space on a tenancy basis which relies on the owners of the 
venues maintaining adequate safety policies, which comply with 
all regulations in the local jurisdiction. At its most severe, a major 
incident could result in major injuries or loss of life. Due to the 
geographic reach of both Divisions, the Group is exposed to 
various jurisdictions with the applicable compliance requirements.
The risks are mitigated by the Group’s Health and Safety policy, 
which is considered and approved by the Board. The divisional 
CEOs have the responsibility for ensuring the operational 
safety and compliance of their respective businesses. The 
implementation of the policies is the responsibility of local 
management teams, with the Group Health and Safety Managers 
available to assist with the implementation. The venues used for 
our events are risk assessed against minimum company criteria. 
A programme of annual internal audits and governance reviews 
is carried out by our Internal Audit department; in 2014 these 
included visits to various events in different geographic regions 
and focused on the health and safety management of high risk 
events. The Event Operations Managers meet as a group to 
discuss the health and safety issues and share best practice 
on an annual basis. The Health and Safety Managers report 
on Health and Safety issues to the Risk Committee. 
5.  Significant operational disruption  
caused by a major disaster
Major disasters, either arising from natural causes or man-made, 
have the potential to significantly disrupt the operation of the 
business. In particular, the success of the Global Exhibitions 
and Knowledge & Networking Divisions is dependent on 
bringing potentially large numbers of individuals to events, 
either as paying delegates or non-paying visitors to Exhibitions. 
Incidents that have the capacity to result in significant 
operational disruption to global travel include natural disasters, 
military conflict, political unrest, terrorist activity and industrial 
action. Additionally, disasters can disrupt the Group’s electronic 
platforms and distribution systems as outlined in point 8.
Business continuity plans have been implemented across the 
Group, including disaster recovery programmes, and plans 
to minimise business disruption. The Group also has relevant 
insurance cover for certain occurrences.
6.  Inadequate crisis management
The impact of any given event on the Group can potentially 
increase if the emerging situation is not managed appropriately 
or effectively. In addition to the principal risk factors documented 
in this section, other risk factors have the ability to cause 
significant damage to the Group’s Brand and reputation if 
effective management is not implemented to mitigate their 
impact. Additionally, the speed and global coverage of media 
can result in a perceived crisis being communicated rapidly, 
thus further damaging the Group’s Brand and reputation. 
To mitigate this risk, senior management communicate effectively 
within the organisation, constantly reviewing the Group’s 
responses to emerging issues. However, by their nature, it is 
impossible to have a detailed crisis management plan in place for 
all potential situations that could arise, and therefore the ultimate 
mitigation is dependent on management’s judgement, speed of 
reaction and quality of communication in a crisis situation.
7.  The Group is dependent on the internet and its digital 
delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems 
The Group’s businesses are increasingly dependent on digital 
platforms and distribution systems, which primarily deliver the 
Group’s products through the internet. Any significant failure or 
interruption in availability of key systems or the Group’s critical 
IT infrastructure could thereby restrict the Group’s ability to 
provide services to customers and colleagues. 
The Group regularly invests in its IT capabilities, including technical 
controls, robust backups of IT systems, and development and 
testing of Disaster Recovery Plans to limit the impact to business 
operations as a result of dependency on IT systems. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 63
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  8.  Breaches of the Group’s information security 
systems or other unauthorised access to its sensitive 
information could adversely affect the Group’s 
businesses and operations
The Group has valuable information databases and as part 
of its business provides its customers and colleagues with 
access to these. There are persons who may try to breach the 
Group’s information security controls to compromise or gain 
unauthorised access to its databases in order to misappropriate 
such information for potentially fraudulent purposes or obtain 
competitive advantage. This could damage the Group’s 
reputation and expose it to risks of loss, litigation and/or 
regulatory action, as well as increase the likelihood of more 
extensive governmental and/or regulatory supervision of these 
activities in a way that could adversely affect this aspect of the 
Group’s business.
The Group regularly invests in improving information security 
to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its 
information assets against cyberattacks or misuse. These 
efforts are led by a designated information security officer. 
In the event of unauthorised access, the Group would 
protect its intellectual property (“IP”) as outlined in point 11.
9.  The Group relies on the experience and talent of its 
senior management and on its ability to recruit and 
retain key employees for the success of its business 
The successful management and operations of the Group are 
reliant upon the contributions of its senior management and 
other key personnel. In addition, the Group’s future success 
depends in part on its ability to continue to recruit, motivate 
and retain highly experienced and qualified employees in 
the face of often intense competition from other companies. 
The Group offers compensation packages which are 
competitive based on current market information and thereby 
give it the best opportunity to recruit and retain people of 
sufficient calibre. The Group believes that its people are 
challenged in their day-to-day work and obtain appropriate 
and relevant experience to develop further and prepare for 
progression within the organisation.
10.  Changes in tax laws or their application or 
interpretation may adversely impact the Group 
The Group operates in a large number of countries. 
Accordingly, its earnings are subject to tax in many jurisdictions. 
Relevant authorities may amend the substance or interpretation 
of tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses in a manner 
that is adverse to the Group. The Group is growing its business 
in emerging markets where tax frameworks are not as well 
developed, which increases this risk. There can therefore be no 
assurance that the various levels of taxation to which the Group 
is subject will not be increased or changed. In addition, if any 
Group company is found to be, or to have been, tax resident 
in any jurisdiction other than those in which the Group is 
currently deemed to be tax resident or to have a permanent 
establishment in any such jurisdiction, then that may have a 
material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the 
Group. Finally, regardless of whether the Group has paid the 
correct amount of tax, there may be a public perception that 
the Group has not paid sufficient tax and that may have a 
reputational impact on the Group. 
The Group employs an experienced Head of Group Tax who 
keeps abreast of potential changes in tax legislation across 
a range of jurisdictions, enabling the Group to react quickly 
to changes in the tax position of any of its companies or 
businesses. In emerging markets, the Group works with 
established and reputable tax advisers in order to ensure it 
pays the correct amount of tax. The Group is also careful to 
ensure that profits arising in low tax jurisdictions are no more 
than commensurate with the substance of the operation in 
those territories.
11.  The Group’s IP rights may not be adequately 
protected and may be challenged by third parties 
The Group relies on agreements with its customers as well as 
trademark, copyright and other IP laws to establish and protect 
the IP rights subsisting in its journals, books and training 
materials. However, these rights may be challenged, limited, 
invalidated or circumvented by third parties seeking to infringe 
or otherwise profit from the Group’s proprietary rights without 
its authorisation. In addition, there is now a growing amount 
of copyright legislation relating to digital content. These laws 
remain under legislative review and there remains significant 
uncertainty as to the form copyright law may ultimately take. 
Additionally, enforcement of IP rights is restricted in certain 
jurisdictions, and the global nature of the internet makes it 
impossible to control the ultimate destination of content 
produced by the Group. The Group may also be the subject 
of claims for infringement of third party rights or party to claims 
to determine the scope and validity of the IP rights of others. 
Litigation based on these claims is common amongst 
companies that utilise digital IP . 
The Group protects its rights by consolidating and regularly 
monitoring its portfolio of trademark registrations, implementing 
its Brand protection strategy and increasing its digital rights 
protection. The Group supports these activities through 
membership of organisations that defend IP rights globally.
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
64 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 12.  The Group is subject to regulation regarding 
the use of personal data 
The Group is required to comply with strict data protection 
and privacy legislation, which restricts the Group’s ability to 
collect and use personal information. The Group is exposed 
to the risk that this data could be wrongfully appropriated, 
lost or disclosed, or processed in breach of data protection 
regulation, by or on behalf of the Group, in which case the 
Group could face liability under data protection laws and/or 
suffer reputational damage from the resulting lost goodwill 
of individuals such as customers or employees. 
The Group seeks to monitor ongoing changes to data 
protection laws and best practices across its main trading 
areas in order to ensure that appropriate protections and 
procedures are in place in relation to the data held by or on 
behalf of the Group. This work is overseen by the Group 
General Counsel and an Information Protection Steering 
Committee, a sub-committee of the Risk Committee.
13.  The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement 
of and changes in legislation and regulation affecting 
its businesses and those of its customers 
Compliance with various laws and regulations does impose 
significant compliance costs and restrictions on the Group, 
with the risk of fines and/or other sanctions for non-compliance. 
In addition, such regulations often provide broad discretion to 
the administering authorities and changes in existing laws or 
regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, could 
require the Group to incur additional costs in complying with 
those laws, or require changes to its strategy, operations or 
accounting and reporting systems. In particular, laws and 
regulations relating to communications, data protection, 
e-commerce, direct marketing and digital advertising have 
become more prevalent and complex in recent years. 
The Group monitors legislative and regulatory changes 
and alters its business practices where appropriate.
14.  The Group’s credit risk in respect  
of long-term receivables 
The Group has a small number of external loans which are 
repayable over the next one to ten years. The recoverability of 
the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial 
success of those external parties over the coming years. Since 
the majority of the repayment terms are over a long period of 
time, the risk of unforeseen issues that could impact future 
repayments may increase.
Mitigation is achieved through structured communication with 
the external parties, close monitoring of financial and budgetary 
performance, and delivery against project milestones. In some 
instances capital and interest payments occur during the loan 
term and so any failure to pay can be addressed at the time 
and remedial actions can be taken. The Risk Committee 
conducts credit risk assessments on a half-yearly basis to 
ensure the external receivables are correctly recorded in 
the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
15.  T h e Growth Acceleration Plan may not achieve 
the intended level of return or anticipated growth 
in business activities 
While the deployment of capital to fund Growth Acceleration 
Plan-related initiatives is subject to strict investment criteria, 
there can be no guarantee that all the investment projects 
will achieve the intended level of return or the desired level 
of growth. The Group is not immune to, among other things, 
the effects of a potential material downgrade in the prevailing 
business environment which could lead to one, or more, of 
the Growth Acceleration Plan-related initiatives not meeting 
their investment return and/or growth projections.
Implementation and restructuring activities resulting from the 
Growth Acceleration Plan could lead to a disruption in current 
business activities and trading, including, where relevant, 
potential loss of knowledge, at a level higher than originally 
anticipated. This could lead to a revision of planned 
implementation activities and timescales within the Growth 
Acceleration Plan programme, and other actions being adopted 
to mitigate the impact of the disruption outside of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
The Group has established a Growth Acceleration Plan 
Governance Framework that operates a “stage-gate” 
approach to the design and ultimate implementation of Growth 
Acceleration Plan initiatives. Each stage includes a fundamental 
review of the business case for each initiative and a formal 
process to assess whether a given initiative can be approved, 
or is declined. Factors that are considered in the review process 
include a review of the investment business case (overseen by 
the Group Finance Director), executive sponsorship (overseen 
by the Executive Management Team), technical review 
(conducted by subject-matter specialists) and project 
management activities (at both Group and Division levels).
Growth Acceleration Plan investment activity has been added 
to the Group Risk Register and will be actively monitored during 
2015 and beyond by the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee 
and the Group Board, to ensure that material threats to the 
success of the Growth Acceleration Plan are identified 
and addressed.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 65
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
erhaps more than any other industry, the 
social and environmental impacts of media 
are unique. At Informa, we are fully aware 
of this. We are focused on delivering a 
few key priorities well, rather than trying 
to manage every impact that affects us 
and our stakeholders. This necessitates 
a dynamic, careful consideration of what our key impacts 
are and how we prioritise. We liaise closely with our Informa 
colleagues, sector peers and communities to do just that. 
Ultimately, we get measured by what we do, not what we 
say, hence the name of our sustainability programme, 
“Louder than Words”.
We have a framework in place to guide our sustainability 
management and performance reporting. Our biggest 
impacts relate to the content we provide: our ability to 
deliver knowledge that is professionally produced, rigorously 
researched and properly disseminated. Our broader 
sustainability programme is then about supporting the 
delivery of that content, by recruiting and developing our 
people, managing resources efficiently and supporting 
the wider community in which we operate. This broader 
programme covers the issues we have in common 
with other sectors. 
In 2014, the business as a whole, and the Sustainability 
function in particular, underwent some important changes. 
“Louder than Words”, previously managed within Human 
Resources, now sits with the Director of Investor Relations, 
Corporate Communications and Brand, reporting into the 
Group Chief Executive. This gives us further reach into the 
business and brings us right into the core decision-making 
process. We now have a secure platform from which we can 
scale our sustainability activities, which we will continue to 
build on in 2015.
BUILDING TRUST IN OUR PRODUCTS
All Informa businesses have one thing in common: they 
deliver specialist knowledge and intelligence. While the 
delivery channels and types of content vary across our product 
portfolio, the one thing we cannot compromise on is integrity. 
We invest significant resources in maintaining trust in a digital 
age, working with partners such as the Committee on 
Publication Ethics (“COPE”) and Sense About Science.
Academic Publishing continues to run rigorous peer review 
and screening processes while using the latest technology 
to detect and act on plagiarism. Our Business Intelligence 
Division operates an editorial and content code, to which all 
editorial staff must adhere. Our event production process is 
strongly research-driven and some of our major events employ 
independent advisory boards to champion original content. 
The most recent assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (“DJSI”) gave us the maximum score of 100 for our 
approach to ensuring “independence of content”.
P
OUR 
CONTENT*
ENVIRONMENT
OUR
OUR
PEOPLE
OUR
COMMUNITY
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT    
LEVERAGING OUR REACH
MEANINGFUL PARTNERSHIP
RECOGNITION
FREEDOM TO SUCCEED
WELLBEING
GLOBAL BUY-IN
ENERGY IMPACT
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN
WASTE REDUCTION
/ /  All Informa businesses have one 
thing in common: they deliver 
specialist knowledge and intelligence. 
While the delivery channels and 
types of content vary across our 
product portfolio, the one thing we 
cannot compromise on is integrity. / /
*  ENSURING THE HIGHEST QUALITY CONTENT 
MAPPING THE IMPACT OF OUR CONTENT ON SOCIETY 
PROVIDING THE MOST ACCESSIBLE AND INNOVATIVE DELIVERY PLATFORMS
www.informa.com
66 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 INNOVATING OUR FORMATS
Informa continues to develop our open access (“OA”) publishing 
capabilities, with 2014 marking a step-change in the right 
direction. Virtually all of our journals offer an OA option and 
we more than doubled the number of paid articles we publish 
under OA schemes, up from 693 to 1,418 compared with 2013. 
Cogent OA was created in 2013, a dedicated OA publisher 
benefiting from the resources and experiences of Taylor & Francis 
but otherwise operating autonomously. During the year, Cogent 
OA launched 14 new OA journals, covering every major academic 
research area, while also spearheading other innovations in 
scholarly communications. We embrace OA as a strategic 
opportunity and have dedicated considerable resources to 
understanding our stakeholders in this area. Almost 8,000 
researchers from around the world responded to the 2014 Taylor 
& Francis Open Access Survey, giving their views on everything 
from the benefits of OA to licence preferences.
We have continued our migration towards digital formats. Our 
Business Intelligence Division has continued to work closely 
with customers to determine the optimal formats for delivery 
on a product-by-product basis and consequently ceased 
print delivery for the Health Insurance magazine, a number of 
Agriculture/Food titles and Lloyd’s List in 2014. In January 2014 
Business Intelligence organised the Digital Transformation 
conference, an internal conference to drive this and to help 
employees think as digitally and creatively as possible. 
Some 60% of our book titles are now available as ebooks, 
up from 55% in 2013. The unifying aim for 2015 and beyond 
is to continue to create relevant and highly valued customer 
experiences with our products. 
EXPANDING OUR REACH
Academic Publishing is the lifeblood of the research ecosystem, 
creating social and economic progress for society and individuals. 
We are not ashamed to say that it is within our commercial 
interest to bring the developing world “on stream” in the global 
research circuit, even if this means making our content available 
for free or at reduced rates. To this effect, we are involved in 
several initiatives, including Research4Life, International Network 
for the Availability of Scientific Publications (“INASP”) and our own 
STAR programme, with special terms for authors and researchers 
from developing countries. Our aim is two-fold: to increase the 
number of article submissions from developing countries and 
improve the acceptance rates. Of the 7 4,864 articles we accepted 
in 2014, 20% came from developing countries.
However, we are not just focusing our efforts in the developing 
world. In 2014, we piloted Access to Research, an initiative to 
give free access to a wide range of academic articles in public 
libraries across the UK. We did this because we wanted to 
provide small businesses, independent researchers and 
interested members of the public access to our research.
PICTURE 
COURTESY  
OF NEIL R. 
COULTER
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 67
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  MAKING THE MOST OF OUR PEOPLE
The nature of our content is as dynamic as the communities 
we serve. The insight, intelligence and innovation that go into 
our market leading products require us to recruit, retain and 
develop the best employees. 
“Freedom to succeed” remains a defining principle of our 
workplace. We pride ourselves in maintaining an entrepreneurial 
mind-set and minimising bureaucracy. In 2014 we launched 
Invent, an event bringing together 50 of Informa’s leaders and 
future leaders from Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & 
Networking to generate innovative new business ideas. We 
aim to develop Invent into an annual event, involving leaders 
from all of our Divisions.
2014 saw the wider implementation of Academic Publishing’s 
Global Development Programme, a leadership programme 
for managers based on individual capability assessments. 
The model has been very successful and leadership 
development will be a Group focus area for 2015. We will 
also launch a graduate programme, the Informa Fellowship 
Scheme, to find and recruit leaders of tomorrow. Those on 
the scheme will gain exposure across the Group, including 
an international assignment.
We measure our employees on outcomes rather than input. 
Most of our businesses offer flexible working arrangements 
and a significant business within our Business Intelligence 
Division received a commendation at the 2014 Top Employers 
for Working Families Awards. 
Informa Academy, our in-house learning source, launched 
bite-sized online digital and social tutorials to enable staff 
globally to enhance their digital skills at any time. Expert 
trainers supported colleagues to decode how new concepts 
and methods could be applied to enhance performance and 
working patterns.
Workplace wellness is fundamental to allowing employees to 
contribute their best. In 2014, all of our UK-based HR managers 
received training on how to manage mental health issues at 
work. We also ran a “Mental Health at Work” awareness day 
within our Business Intelligence Division. For the second year 
running, 100 teams from across the world swam, cycled, ran 
and took part in numerous other sports during our February 
Fitness Challenge. Lastly, 2014 saw the second instalment of 
“21 Days of Nutrition”, helping our employees make the best 
dietary choices.
As a business, we consider diversity a commercial imperative. 
In 2015, HR managers in Academic Publishing will be given 
unconscious bias training to develop an inclusive workplace 
and to ensure we recruit from the widest talent pool available.
OUR OPERATIONAL IMPACTS
Our main environmental impact relates to the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions we cause. GHG emissions contribute to 
climate change. In response, we seek to monitor and minimise 
our energy usage. With over 120 offices in 25 countries, this 
remains a challenge. Our focus is on reducing emissions from 
the bigger offices where we control the energy bill. Specifically, 
our target is to decrease the emissions from 10 of our biggest 
offices by 10% by the end of 2015.
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
We support the principles laid out in the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights and continue to assess the impacts we have 
on communities and individuals both through our direct 
operations and indirectly.
Our human rights impacts within our supply chain are 
managed through the publishing industry initiative PRELIMS 
(Publishers Resolution for Ethical International Manufacturing 
Standards), a collaboration between 12 major publishers. 
In 2014, the members of PRELIMS further strengthened the 
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED)
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
2014 tonnes  
CO
2
e
2013 tonnes 
CO
2
e
 1
Absolute 
achievement  
to date  
(2014 vs 2013)
2014 intensity 
figure (tonnes 
CO
2
e/employee)
Intensity 
achievement  
to date  
(2014 vs 2013)
Scope 1 
(Gas, fuel and car mileage) 1,190.37 1,285.21 (94.84)
Scope 2  
(Electricity and steam) 7,670.44 8,466.66 (796.22)
Total  
Scope 1 and 2 8,860.81 9,751.87 (891.06) 1.34 (0.16)
1 
2013 data restated due to receipt of more accurate site energy data. 
www.informa.com
68 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 supplier code of conduct to include the broader environmental 
impact of the print supply chain. The code now covers the 
potential impacts on workers and the communities surrounding 
print production facilities. The plan for 2015 is to launch an 
environmental assessment process to monitor performance 
against the new code.
The right to privacy is business critical to us. Our databases 
store around 30 million customer and prospect records, not to 
mention employee, supplier and business partner information. 
During 2014, Informa welcomed its new information protection 
ambassador, Infobot. Infobot is the “face” of our programme to 
keep information safe and respect the privacy of our employees, 
customers and business partners. 
We are committed to handling personal information 
responsibly and in compliance with all relevant privacy and 
data protection laws. Infobot marks the second phase of 
the roll-out of the Global Information Protection Governance 
and Compliance Framework, and is rapidly becoming a 
known character to all Informa employees. Our view is that 
privacy is as much a social as a legal challenge.
Informa has many different businesses and we recognise that 
each of these has their own specific human rights impacts. 
In 2015, we will undertake a detailed human rights impact 
assessment by Division to better understand those 
potential impacts.
FIND OUT MORE
For more details on how we have progressed against our 
strategy and our plans for the future, please have a look at: 
www.informa.com/sustainability 
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
GENDER RATIOS
As at 31 December 2014.
Directors
Employees
Senior 
managers
 
Male
 
Female
 78%
70%
 43%
30%
57%
 22%
7
2
39
17
2,829
3,798
GROUP-WIDE 
INFOBOT 
CAMPAIGN: 
In 2014, the Group 
launched a 
Group-wide, 
multi-language 
initiative to raise 
awareness of the 
risks and importance 
of information 
security.
INVESTING IN 
OPEN ACCESS: 
In 2014, Cogent OA 
continued to expand 
its open access 
journal offering 
with 18 journals 
now accepting 
submissions.
INFORMA 
SUSTAINABILITY: 
As a media company, 
our biggest impacts 
relate to the content 
we provide: our 
ability to deliver 
knowledge that 
is professionally 
produced, rigorously 
researched 
and properly 
disseminated.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 69
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  DEREK MAPP 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN² (64)
Derek Mapp joined the board of Taylor & 
Francis Group plc as a Non-Executive 
Director in 1998. He is currently a Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of 
Huntsworth plc, Non-Executive Chairman of 
Salmon Developments Limited, 3aaa Limited 
(Aspire Achieve Advance), Embrace Limited 
and Executive Chairman of Imagesound 
Limited. Following the merger of Informa 
and Taylor & Francis in May 2004, he was 
appointed as Non-Executive Director and 
was designated the Senior Independent 
Director on 10 March 2005. On 17 March 
2008 he was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman. He is also Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE (51)
Stephen A. Carter CBE was appointed 
Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2014, 
having previously been CEO-Designate from 
September 2013. Prior to this he served on 
the Board as a Non-Executive Director and 
was a member of the Audit Committee. 
Stephen is also a Non-Executive Director of 
United Utilities Group PLC and a Governor 
of the Royal Shakespeare Company. He 
was previously Chairman of the Board at the 
Ashridge Business School, the President/
Managing Director, Europe, Middle East & 
Africa for Alcatel Lucent, and was a member 
of the Executive Management Board. He is 
a Life Peer.
DR BRENDAN O’NEILL 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
1,2,3
(66)
Dr Brendan O’Neill is currently a Non-
Executive Director of Tyco International plc 
and Towers Watson Inc. From 1999 to 2003 
he was Chief Executive of ICI plc. Prior to 
joining ICI in 1998 he was an Executive 
Director of Guinness plc with responsibility 
for the Guinness Group’s worldwide brewing 
interests. He was also a Non-Executive 
Director of Endurance Speciality Holdings 
Limited from 2005 to 2014 and Emap plc 
from 1995 to 2002. Dr O’Neill was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 1 January 2008. He chairs the Audit 
Committee and is a member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
GARETH WRIGHT
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR (42)
Gareth Wright was appointed Group Finance 
Director and joined the Board of Informa PLC 
with effect from 9 July 2014. Gareth joined 
Informa in 2009 as Deputy Finance Director 
and had been working in the role of Acting 
Group Finance Director since 1 January 
2014. Previously, Gareth worked for National 
Express in a number of Head Office Finance 
roles, including a period as Head of Group 
Finance and Acting Group Finance Director. 
He trained with Coopers & Lybrand, now 
part of PwC.
1
 AUDIT COMMITTEE 
2
 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
3
 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
PAST DIRECTORS
Dr Pamela Kirby stood down from the Board 
and as Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 23 May 2014. For her biography, 
please refer to page 35 of the 2013 Annual 
Report, which is available online.
† Geoffrey Cooper stepped down from the 
Board on 30 March 2015.
GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
70 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
www.informa.com JOHN DAVIS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
1,3
 (52) 
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with PwC, John has worked extensively 
within the media sector. Currently he is 
a Non-Executive Director and investor in 
Made TV and Design My Night. He is also 
an active angel investor in a number of other 
companies and a consultant to Salmon 
Developments plc. Previously he was the 
Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc, 
Group Finance Director of the FT Group, 
Chief Financial Officer of Pearson Inc and 
Director of Corporate Finance and Treasury 
at EMAP plc. John has a Masters in 
Management from The Stanford Graduate 
School of Business. He was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director with effect from 
1 October 2005 and is a member of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees.
CINDY ROSE
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
1,2
 (49)
Cindy Rose joined the Board of Informa as 
an independent Non-Executive Director on 
1 March 2013. She is Managing Director 
of Vodafone UK’s Consumer division. She 
was formerly Executive Director of Digital 
Entertainment at Virgin Media, and has held 
a variety of Senior Executive roles with The 
Walt Disney Company. Cindy is a member 
of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
GEOFFREY COOPER
†
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR³ (60)
Geoffrey Cooper joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014. 
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Dunelm 
plc, Non-Executive Chairman of Card 
Factory plc and Chairman of Bourne Leisure 
Holdings Ltd and Truth Corps Ltd. He is a 
Chartered Management Accountant and had 
a career in management consultancy before 
joining Somerfield as Finance Director in 
1990. In 1994, he became Finance Director 
of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance 
UniChem plc (which later became part of 
Alliance Boots plc), where he was appointed 
Deputy Chief Executive in 2001. He was 
Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc from 
2004 to 2013 and retired from the Travis 
Perkins Board in 2014.
HELEN OWERS 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR³ (51)
Helen Owers joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014. 
She is a Non-Executive Director at PZ 
Cussons, Wragge & Co LLP and The Eden 
Project. She was previously President, 
Global Businesses at Thomson Reuters and, 
more recently, Chief Development Officer, 
with a remit to expand the Thomson Reuters’ 
emerging markets presence. Before joining 
Thomson Reuters, Helen worked as a media 
and telecoms strategy consultant with Gemini 
Consulting and in academic and professional 
publishing with Prentice Hall. She is a 
member of the Remuneration Committee.
RUPERT HOPLEY
COMPANY SECRETARY (45)
Rupert Hopley is the Company Secretary 
and Group General Counsel. He joined 
Informa on 1 November 2011. He trained as 
a solicitor at Allen & Overy and worked in 
their corporate finance department before 
joining Cable & Wireless plc in 2004. He held 
various roles at Cable & Wireless, including 
Head of M&A and Deputy General Counsel, 
before joining Expedia Inc. in 2008 as their 
General Counsel (EMEA).
GARETH BULLOCK
SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
1,2
 (61)
Gareth Bullock joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014 
and was appointed Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 23 May 2014. 
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Tesco 
plc, Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited 
and Global Market Group Ltd. He is senior 
adviser to Good Governance Group (G3) 
and a Trustee of the British Council. 
Gareth was Group Executive Director of 
Standard Chartered plc until his retirement 
in April 2010 and was also responsible 
for Standard Chartered plc’s risk function. 
He was a Non-Executive Director of 
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc from 2005 
to 2014. He is a member of the Audit 
and Nomination Committees.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 71
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  AUDITOR 
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
www.deloitte.com 
STOCKBROKERS
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International  
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 
2 King Edward Street 
London EC1A 1HQ 
www.corp.bankofamerica.com
Barclays Capital 
5 North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB 
www.barcap.com 
PUBLIC RELATIONS
StockWell Communications LLP 
Wellington House 
125 Strand 
London WC2R 0AP  
www.stockwellgroup.com 
DEPOSITORY BANK
BNY Mellon 
101 Barclay Street, 22nd Floor 
New York, NY 10286 
www.bnymellon.com
PRINCIPAL SOLICITORS 
Clifford Chance LLP 
10 Upper Bank Street  
London E14 5JJ 
www.cliffordchance.com
Ashurst LLP 
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA 
www.ashurst.com
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services PLC  
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ  
www.computershare.com
GOVERNANCE
ADVISERS
www.informa.com
72 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
he Directors present their Annual Report 
and Accounts on the affairs of Informa PLC 
and its subsidiaries (together, the “Group”), 
together with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report, for the 
year ended 31 December 2014. This 
Directors’ Report forms part of the Strategic 
Report of the Company as required by the Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 
2013, which can be found on pages 4 to 69.
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
Informa PLC is a public company limited by shares, incorporated 
in England and Wales. It has a premium listing on the London 
Stock Exchange. 
On 30 May 2014, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement (the 
“Scheme”) under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 
1991, Informa PLC became the new parent holding company 
of the Informa Group of companies. The Scheme was 
approved by the Royal Court of Jersey on 29 May 2014 and 
by shareholders at a general meeting of Jersey registered 
Informa plc (“Old Informa”) held on 23 May 2014.
Informa PLC was incorporated as Informa Limited under the 
Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014 and changed its 
name to Informa PLC on 14 May 2014. Pursuant to the 
Scheme, ordinary shares in Informa PLC were admitted to 
the UK Listing Authority’s Official List on 30 May 2014. Trading 
on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities 
commenced, and the listing of Old Informa’s ordinary shares 
on the UK Listing Authority’s Official List was cancelled, on the 
same date. Under the terms of the Scheme, shareholders in 
Old Informa received one share in Informa PLC for every share 
held in Old Informa. Upon the Scheme becoming effective, Old 
Informa changed its name to Informa Switzerland Limited and 
became a wholly owned subsidiary of Informa PLC. Further 
information on the terms of the Scheme is set out in the 
scheme circular relating to the Scheme published by Old 
Informa on 15 April 2014 (the “Scheme Circular”), which can be 
viewed on the Company’s website at www.informa.com. The 
Scheme Circular also contains a summary of the Company’s 
Articles of Association (the “Articles”).
In order to give a view across the full financial year, references 
in this section and in the Corporate Governance Statement, 
the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee 
Report, the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, to “Informa”, “Company”, “Group”, “Directors” and 
the “Board” refer to Old Informa up to 29 May 2014 and to 
Informa PLC from 30 May 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Strategic Report describes the strategy, business model, 
the Company’s performance during the year, principal risk 
factors and corporate responsibility activities. As a whole the 
Annual Report and Accounts provides information about the 
Group’s businesses, its financial performance during the year 
and likely future developments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE
A report on corporate governance, and the ways in which the 
Company complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) as published on September 
2012, is set out on pages 78 to 83, and forms part of this 
report by reference.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 4 to 69 of this 
document, forms the management report for the purposes 
of the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule (“DTR”) 4.1.8R. 
The notice concerning forward-looking statements is set out 
on page 194. References to the Company may also include 
references to the Group.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be held on 22 May 
2015, at The Mondrian London, 20 Upper Ground, London 
SE1 9PD, at 9.00 am. The notice is being dispatched as a 
separate document to all shareholders and is also available at 
www.informa.com. The notice sets out the resolutions to be 
proposed at the AGM and an explanation on each resolution.
DIVIDENDS
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 
12.9p per ordinary share. Subject to shareholders’ approval 
at the 2015 AGM, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 
28 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders registered as at the close 
of business on 1 May 2015. Together with the interim dividend 
of 6.4p per ordinary share paid on 11 September 2014, this 
makes a total for the year of 19.3p per ordinary share 
(2013: 18.9p). 
Shareholders may elect to receive shares instead of cash from 
their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan (“DRIP”).
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The names of Directors of the Company as at the date of this 
Report are set out on pages 70 and 71, which include brief 
biographical details. 
T
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 73
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Dr Pamela Kirby served as the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director until she stepped down from the Board on 
23 May 2014. Gareth Wright was appointed as Group Finance 
Director with effect from 9 July 2014 and will seek election at 
the AGM on 22 May 2015. All other Directors served on the 
Board throughout the financial year and will seek re-election 
at the AGM on 22 May 2015.
The remuneration and interests of the Directors who held office 
as at 31 December 2014 in the share capital of the Company 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107 . 
Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors with the Company can be found on page 106. There 
are no agreements in place between the Company and its 
Directors and employees providing for compensation for loss 
of office of employment (whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover 
bid. Further information on payments to Directors can be found 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107 . No Director 
was materially interested in any contract of significance. 
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
Indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed 
to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by English 
law and the Articles, in respect of any liability arising out of, 
or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties 
and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company, any of its 
subsidiaries or as a Trustee of an occupational pension scheme 
for employees of the Company. The indemnity would not 
provide coverage where the Director is proved to have acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly. Information on appointments to 
the Board in 2014 can be found in the Nomination Committee 
Report on pages 84 and 85. The Company has purchased 
and maintains Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover against 
certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with 
any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution 
of their duties. 
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors 
are set out in the Articles. Directors can be appointed by 
the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. The 
Company can remove a Director from office, including by 
passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by 
all the other Directors. 
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and 
provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, including to borrow money up to an aggregate of 
three times the adjusted capital and reserves. The Company 
may by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, 
and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in 
accordance with its Articles and English law.
CHANGES TO THE COMPANY’S ARTICLES
The Company may only amend its Articles by special 
resolution passed at a General Meeting (“GM”).
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
The Company is required to disclose the Group’s GHG 
emissions as required by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. Details 
of the Group’s emissions are contained in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of the Strategic Report which can 
be found on pages 66 to 69 and form part of the Directors’ 
Report disclosures.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Group made no political donations during the year.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, a 
review is included within Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. Financial risk management objectives and policies 
(including a description of when hedge accounting has been 
applied) and the Group’s exposure to capital risk management, 
market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are explained in Note 33 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
SHARE INFORMATION
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 
As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, 
in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s (“FCA”) 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial 
interests (over 3%) in the issued ordinary share capital of 
the Company. 
As at 
31 December 2014
As at 
28 February 2015
Number 
of shares % held
Number 
of shares % held
Lazard Asset 
Management 50,180,488 7.73 44,881,484 6.92
Bestinver Asset 
Management 36,723,975 5.66 36,898,656 5.69
Artemis Investment 
Management 35,218,039 5.43 36,602,291 5.64
NBIM 31,188,145 4.81 31,188,145 4.81
Fidelity Management 
& Research 26,970,331 4.16 27,120,907 4.18
M&G Investment 
Management 24,789,689 3.82 24,775,590 3.82
BlackRock 22,092,590 3.40 25,514,522 3.93
Legal & General 
Investment 
Management 21,718,719 3.35 22,090,139 3.40
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
74 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 SHARE CAPITAL
As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised 648,941,249 ordinary shares with a nominal value 
of 0.1p each. The Company’s share capital was restructured 
in 2014 as detailed in Note 34 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, being 
the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Articles, 
which can be found at www.informa.com. Subject to relevant 
legislation, any share may be issued with or have attached to it 
such preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions 
as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such 
resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make 
specific provision, as the Board may decide. No such resolution 
is currently in effect. Subject to the recommendation of the 
Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend. On 
liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets 
of the Company. Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled 
to receive the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts and, 
subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the 
Board to convene a GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs. 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard 
to control of the Company.
VOTING RIGHTS
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak 
at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies 
or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate 
representative. On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary 
shares who (being an individual) is present in person or (being 
a corporation) is present by a duly appointed corporate 
representative, not being himself/herself a member, shall have 
one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present 
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share 
of which he/she is the holder. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received not later 
than 48 hours before a GM. A holder of ordinary shares can 
lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests held in those 
shares. Except as set out above and as permitted under 
applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of 
holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines 
for exercising voting rights. 
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES 
IN THE COMPANY
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company except that:
the Directors may from time to time refuse to register 
a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, 
provided it meets the requirements given under the Articles;
transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of 
an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations 
governing the operation of CREST;
legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place from 
time to time, for example insider trading laws; 
in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA the Directors 
and certain employees of the Company require approval 
to deal in the Company’s shares;
where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the 
Company’s certificated shares has been served with a 
disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares; or
the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of 
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of 
shareholders. The Directors cannot suspend the registration 
of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining 
consent from CREST. 
There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares 
that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
SHARES HELD ON TRUST
Shares are from time to time held by a Trustee in order to satisfy 
entitlements of employees to shares under the Group’s share 
schemes. Usually the shares held on trust are no more than 
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Group’s share 
schemes for one year. The shares held by these trusts do not 
have any special rights with regard to control of the Company. 
While these shares are held on trust their rights are not 
exercisable directly by the relevant employees. The current 
arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings 
are set out on page 105. 
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a 
shareholders’ resolution passed on 23 May 2014, to purchase 
through the market up to 10% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares. This authority expires at the conclusion 
of the AGM of the Company to be held on 22 May 2015.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 75
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are no significant agreements to which the Company 
is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control following a takeover bid (nor any agreements between 
the Company and its Directors or employees providing for 
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid) except for the Group’s private 
placement loan notes and facilities described in Note 32 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
The Group manages an ongoing programme to ensure staff 
are informed on matters affecting them and are provided with 
regular updates on the performance of the Group. This is 
achieved by inviting staff to view the half and full year results 
presentations, delivering half and full year results presentations 
adapted for staff by webinar, and providing a Q&A facility, 
email updates, and informal and formal meetings. All material 
is recorded and available on the Intranet for staff unable to 
join at the prescribed times.
The Group actively seeks regular feedback from staff and 
continues to participate in the UK Top Employers ranking. 
The ranking involves questioning on many factors, including 
links to employee consultation and engagement. 
In 2014, the Group launched ShareMatch, a global share 
incentive plan offered to the majority of staff. Eligible employees 
in the UK, US, UAE, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, 
Singapore and Sweden are invited to purchase shares in the 
Company up to an annual maximum value of £1,800. Further 
information on ShareMatch can be found in the Remuneration 
Report on page 101. The intention of this scheme is to increase 
employee engagement and align employees’ interests with 
those of the Company and shareholders by increasing 
employee ownership of the Company’s shares. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
Informa believes in equality of opportunity and all recruitment 
and promotion opportunities are based solely on merit. No 
individual employee or potential employee will receive less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, sexual 
orientation, disability, colour, race, religion, nationality 
or ethnicity.
The Company’s equal opportunity policy not only covers 
recruitment and promotion but also training and development 
opportunities. The policy also acts as a guide to all staff and 
management on acceptable behaviour at work standards.
In situations where an individual employee’s circumstances 
change, it is the Company’s policy to do everything reasonably 
possible to ensure a successful return to work is facilitated, be 
it in the same job or a different role. 
AUDITOR
Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report confirms that: 
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as 
auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be proposed 
at the forthcoming AGM.
GOING CONCERN BASIS 
Each of the persons who is a Director (noted on pages 70 and 
71) at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts 
confirms that:
The Group’s business activities, together with the principal 
risk factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Chairman’s 
Statement and Strategic Report on pages 4 to 65.
As set out on pages 62 to 65 a number of principal risk factors 
could potentially affect the Group’s results and financial 
position. In particular the current economic climate creates 
uncertainties over the level of demand for the Group’s products 
and services. The Group adopts extensive budgeting and 
forecasting processes for its trading results and cash flows 
and updates these forecasts to reflect current trading on 
a regular basis.
The Group’s net debt and banking covenants are discussed 
in the Financial Review on pages 56 to 59 and the exposure 
to liquidity risk is discussed in Note 33 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
The Group sensitises its projections to reflect possible 
changes in trading performance and cash conversions, taking 
into account its substantial deferred revenues (£342.9m at 
31 December 2014). These forecasts and projections for the 
period up to 30 June 2016 show that the Group is expected to 
be able to operate within the level of its current financing and 
meet its covenant requirements for a period of one year from 
the date of the signing of the Group’s financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2014.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may 
cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
www.informa.com
76 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors, whose names are set out on pages 70 and 71, 
are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company 
law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected 
to prepare the financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the European Union and issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. 
International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 1 requires that 
financial statements present fairly the Company’s financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows for each 
financial year. This requires the faithful representation of 
the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 
accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the 
International Accounting Standards Board’s “Framework for 
the preparation and presentation of financial statements”. 
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved 
by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, the Directors 
are also required to:
properly select and apply accounting policies;
present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for: 
keeping proper accounting records that disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated 
Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities; and
the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with DTR 4.1.12R, the Directors confirm that, 
to the best of their knowledge:
the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the applicable set of accounting 
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
the management report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risk factors.
In addition, each of the Directors as at the date of this report 
considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
RUPERT HOPLEY
COMPANY SECRETARY
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 77
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  THE BOARD
Informa PLC is the ultimate holding company of the Group 
and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
On 30 May 2014, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement (the 
“Scheme”) under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 
1991, Informa PLC became the new parent holding company 
of the Informa Group of companies. Prior to that date, the 
Company was not subject to the UK Companies Act 2006; 
however, the Board considered it appropriate to provide 
shareholder safeguards which were similar to those that 
apply to a UK registered company and those in place prior 
to the effectiveness of the Scheme were consistent with the 
relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
With the exception of Gareth Wright, the Directors were elected 
or re-elected on 23 May 2014. On the effective date of the 
Scheme, the Company continued to have the same Board and 
management team as Old Informa had immediately prior to the 
effectiveness of the Scheme.
The Board, chaired by Derek Mapp, is currently made up of two 
Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors. Their 
biographies are set out on pages 70 and 71. The Board was 
delighted to appoint Gareth Wright as Group Finance Director 
on 9 July 2014. Currently, two out of the nine Board members 
(22%) are female.
The Board’s main roles are to create value for shareholders, to 
provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Group, to approve the 
Group’s strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary 
financial and human resources are made available to enable 
those objectives to be met. The Board also reviews the risk 
management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all governance matters and all 
Directors have access to his advice and services.
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
The Board recognises that it is accountable to 
shareholders for its standards of governance and is 
therefore committed to the principles of corporate 
governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”) published in September 2012. 
An amended version of the Code was issued in 
September 2014 which is applicable to accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014; the 
Company will report on its compliance with the 2014 
version of the Code in its 2015 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. As a company listed on the 
London Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to the 
Listing Rules of the FCA and seeks to comply with 
the provisions of the Code and relevant institutional 
shareholder guidelines.
The Board is pleased to report that Informa has 
complied with all of the provisions of the Code during 
2014 and up to the date of this document. This report 
describes how Informa has applied the main provisions 
of the Code. Together, this report, the Audit Committee 
Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the 
Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107 explain 
how Informa has applied the principles and supporting 
principles of good governance set out in the Code. 
In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee 
has provided assurance to the Board that the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and all the matters 
that have been brought to the attention of the Board 
during the year have been reflected in the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements.
DEREK MAPP
CHAIRMAN
www.informa.com
78 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Board’s 
approval is reviewed annually with the last review conducted in 
February 2015. The specific responsibilities reserved for the 
Board include, but are not limited to:
responsibility for the overall management of the Group;
approving the Group’s long-term objectives and 
commercial strategy;
approving the Group’s annual operating and capital 
expenditure budgets;
reviewing operational and financial performance;
approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects;
reviewing the Group’s systems of internal control and 
risk management;
reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies 
of the Group;
approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board 
and of the Company Secretary;
approving policies relating to Directors’ remuneration; and
reviewing the dividend policy and determining the amounts 
of dividends.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the 
Executive Directors:
the development and recommendation of strategic plans 
for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term 
objectives and priorities established by the Board;
implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group 
as determined by the Board;
monitoring the operating and financial results against 
plans and budgets;
monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments 
against plans and objectives;
prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human 
resources; and
developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available 
at www.informa.com.
THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, GROUP CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the 
Board, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent 
Director comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (“ICSA”) and as 
such are clearly defined. These are set out in writing, have 
been approved by the Board and are available on the 
Company’s website.
As Chairman, Derek Mapp leads the Board and is responsible 
for setting its tone and agenda and ensuring its effectiveness. 
He is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information and for effective 
communication with shareholders. He promotes a culture of 
openness and debate to facilitate the effective contribution of 
Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors. He also acts on the 
results of the Board performance evaluation by leading on the 
implementation of any required changes to the Board and its 
Committees, including the recognition of the strengths and any 
perceived weaknesses of the Board, and, where appropriate, 
proposes new members be appointed to the Board or 
proposes the resignation of Directors. The Chairman holds 
periodic meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executives present.
Stephen A. Carter was appointed Group Chief Executive on 
1 January 2014, having previously been CEO-Designate from 
1 September 2013, and he has the responsibility of running 
the Company. As Group Chief Executive, Stephen has direct 
charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable 
to the Board for its operational and financial performance. He 
is primarily responsible for implementation of the Company’s 
strategy, including ensuring the achievement of the Group’s 
budgets and optimising the Group’s resources, and he also 
has primary responsibility for managing the Group’s risk profile, 
identifying and executing new business opportunities, and for 
management development and remuneration.
Dr Pamela Kirby stood down as Senior Independent Director 
on 23 May 2014 and she was replaced in this role by Gareth 
Bullock. Gareth is available to meet shareholders on request 
and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder 
concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for 
investor communication. He acts as a sounding board for 
the Chairman and, if and when appropriate, serves as an 
intermediary for the other Directors.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 79
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS’ INDEPENDENCE
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors 
who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on 
strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge 
and experience to the Board’s deliberations. The independent 
Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views 
carry significant weight in the Board’s decision-making 
process. The Board considers all of its Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent in character and judgement. 
There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to 
obtain independent professional advice, at the Group’s 
expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order 
to carry out their responsibilities. The Directors’ contracts are 
available for inspection at the registered office during normal 
business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
On appointment, the Directors receive relevant information 
about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters 
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and 
membership of the principal Board Committees, the Group’s 
corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest 
financial information about the Group. This is supplemented by 
introductory meetings with key divisional and Group function 
senior executives who provide detailed information about the 
Company, the relevant markets, the business units and their 
trading. Finally, on appointment and from time to time, the 
Directors are reminded of their legal and other duties and 
obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly 
updated on the Group’s business and the environment in which 
it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior 
executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board 
meetings from time to time. They are also updated on any 
changes to the legal and governance requirements of the 
Group and those which affect themselves as Directors and 
are able to obtain training, at the Group’s expense, to ensure 
they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and 
changing commercial risks.
Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in 
a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee 
meetings. These papers are supplemented by any information 
specifically requested by the Directors from time to time. 
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management 
reports from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director which enable them to scrutinise the Group’s and 
management’s performance against agreed objectives.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD 
AND ITS COMMITTEES
The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the 
Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of 
the Board, its principal Committees and individual Directors.
On appointment, the Directors are made aware that their 
performance will be subject to evaluation. The Non-Executive 
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet at 
least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Following significant changes to the Board composition at the 
beginning of 2014, an external Board evaluation was conducted 
towards the end of the year facilitated by Independent Board 
Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited. Independent 
Audit Limited has no other connection with the Company. 
The evaluation, which was fully independent, was undertaken 
by means of:
observation of a Board meeting;
a review of Board and Committee papers for the 12 month 
period up to September 2014; and
individual interviews with each Director, the Company 
Secretary and several senior executives along with the 
external audit partner.
The results of the evaluation were presented in a report, which 
was discussed with the Chairman and then presented to the 
Board. The report covered the topics of:
Board composition and dynamics, both as a whole and 
on an individual basis;
the purpose of the Board’s role in relation to strategy, risk, 
financial and operational performance, resourcing and 
stakeholder focus;
succession planning; and
the mechanics and quality of Board meetings.
The effectiveness of each principal Board Committee was 
also assessed separately.
The evaluation report concluded that overall, following the 
Board restructure, the Board was making clear progress 
and becoming increasingly effective. Certain key areas were 
identified as having scope for further development, although 
it was acknowledged that most of these areas had already 
been identified by Informa for further consideration in the near 
future. The Board will monitor progress throughout 2015.
www.informa.com
80 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 RE-ELECTION
The Articles provide for all Directors to be subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM. The performance evaluation of the 
Board concluded that each Director remains effective and 
committed to their role. In addition, as a result of the evaluation, 
the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director remains 
independent, including John Davis who has served more than 
nine years on the Board. With the exception of Gareth Wright, 
who will stand for election, all Directors will stand for re-election 
at the 2015 AGM.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company is committed to maintaining good 
communications with investors and has a full-time Director 
of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and 
Brand. Derek Mapp as Chairman, Gareth Bullock as Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee provide the Board with feedback on any issues 
raised with them by shareholders.
Financial information is reported externally on a quarterly basis. 
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director give 
presentations on the half-yearly and full year results in face-to-
face meetings with institutional investors, analysts and the 
media, which are also accessible via webcast on www.informa.
com. In 2014, presentations were held in London, Edinburgh, 
New York and Boston. After the release of the Interim 
Management Statements in respect of the first and third 
quarters, the Company holds conference calls with institutional 
investors, analysts and the media.
Whilst it is no longer a requirement under the Listing Rules to 
issue Interim Management Statements, it is the intention of the 
Board to issue trading updates in 2015 in order to keep investors 
fully appraised of the trading performance of the Company.
In addition to these presentations, the Executive Directors have 
frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range 
of issues, including governance and strategy, affecting the 
Group’s performance. In November 2014, an investor 
presentation was held to update investors and analysts on 
the implementation and progress of the Company’s Growth 
Acceleration Plan. Meetings are also held with the Group’s 
largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following 
the announcement of the Group’s half-yearly and full year 
results and on other occasions. In addition, the Group 
responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions 
from institutional shareholders. Following meetings held 
with shareholders after the half-yearly and full year results 
announcements, the Board is provided with feedback from 
the Executive Directors, the Director of Investor Relations, 
Corporate Communications and Brand, the Group’s 
stockbrokers and its public relations advisers on investor 
perceptions. The Company’s stockbrokers’ reports on the 
Group are also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports 
of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions 
and to meet with the Directors. The number of proxy votes for, 
against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at 
the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item. 
The Company aims to give as much notice of the AGM as 
possible and at least 21 clear days’ notice, as required by the 
Articles. In practice the documents are sent to shareholders 
no less than 20 working days before the AGM.
The Group’s corporate website at www.informa.com provides 
a wide range of information about the Group which is of interest 
to both institutional and private investors. This includes all 
announcements made by the Company to the FCA, as well as 
video recordings of the interim and annual presentations made 
to analysts, and details of the Group’s businesses and sectors 
in which it operates.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Articles include provisions covering Directors’ conflicts 
of interest and allow the Board to authorise any matter that 
would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to avoid 
conflicts of interest. The Company has procedures in place to 
deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest. 
As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to:
consider each conflict situation separately on its 
particular facts;
consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Articles;
keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted 
by Directors and the scope of any approvals given; and
regularly review conflict authorisations.
In 2014, none of the Directors had any unauthorised conflicts 
of interests. The Board acknowledges that Dr Brendan O’Neill 
is a Non-Executive Director of Towers Watson Inc. and Towers 
Watson are advisers to the Remuneration Committee.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 81
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Following a comprehensive strategic review, a new operating 
model was implemented during the financial year. As detailed 
in the Strategic Report, the Group is now structured as four 
Divisions: Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, 
Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking. Each 
Division is given operational autonomy, as far as possible, 
within an internal control framework.
The responsibility for the day-to-day management of these 
Divisions rests with the Group Chief Executive, supported by 
the Executive Management Team (“EMT”). During 2014, the 
EMT, which includes the CEO of each of the four Divisions, 
met weekly (by call) and monthly (physically) to consider the 
implementation of Group strategies, plans and policies, monitor 
operational and financial performance, and manage risks.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises 
that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the 
expected benefits.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This 
process was in place throughout 2014 and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance “Internal 
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code 
(October 2005)”.
The key features of Informa’s internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to the financial reporting 
process include:
Business planning – all business units produce and agree 
an annual business plan against which the performance of 
the business is regularly monitored.
Financial analysis – each business unit’s operating 
profitability and capital expenditure are closely monitored. 
Management incentives are tied to financial results. These 
results include explanations of variances between forecast 
and budgeted performance, and are reviewed in detail by 
executive management on a monthly basis. Key financial 
information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Group Authority Framework – the framework provides 
clear guidelines for all business units of the approval limits 
for capital and operating expenditure, and other key 
business decisions.
Risk assessment – a risk assessment is embedded into 
the operations of the Group and a risk register is submitted 
to the EMT and the Board for approval. Each business unit 
considers the significant risks to its business and to the 
achievement of the proposed plan. In doing so, each unit 
considers risk in terms of probability of occurrence and 
potential impact on performance, and mitigating actions, 
control effectiveness and management responsibility are 
identified to address these risks.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, risk management and the Group’s high 
level internal control arrangements. The Audit Committee 
has been charged by the Board with oversight of the above 
mentioned controls for the period and they have considered 
the following in determining the overall effectiveness of the 
Group’s risks and associated control environment:
The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit 
Committee, reports on the effectiveness of risk management, 
governance and compliance activity within the Group. This 
Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and a 
cross-section of senior officers and managers of the Group, 
and is chaired by the Group Finance Director. The Risk 
Committee supports the Board in its consideration of 
current and forward-looking material business risk 
exposures. A programme of deep dive reviews of each of 
the principal risk factors of the Group is in place, with each 
principal risk factor discussed and evaluated in detail at least 
once a year by the Risk Committee. These principal risk 
factors are discussed in more detail on pages 62 to 65.
The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to be 
undertaken by the Group’s nominated external auditor during 
the period and receives reports on any issues identified in 
the course of their work, including internal control reports 
on control weaknesses. Any identified issues are reported 
to the Audit Committee and are tracked until conclusion.
The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to 
be undertaken by the Group’s Internal Audit team during 
the period and receives reports on any issues identified in 
respect of the Group’s business processes and control 
activities over the Group’s key risk areas, including following 
up on the implementation of management action plans to 
address any identified control weaknesses and reporting 
any overdue actions to the Audit Committee.
KPMG LLP is engaged to provide the Group with Internal Audit 
services and act as Head of Internal Audit. The Board confirms 
that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified 
from the reviews performed by Internal Audit.
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
82 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES
At each meeting the Board receives information regarding current trading, business unit performance, financing, potential 
acquisitions and investor relations analysis. At certain times of the year the Board reviews and discusses budgets, capital 
expenditure, risks, financial statements and strategy. The Board is also provided with updates, when appropriate, on aspects 
such as changes in legislation and the business environment, in addition to regular investor feedback.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board, and all Board and Committee minutes are 
circulated as soon as possible after each meeting. The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended 
as a member by each Director during the year are set out below:
 Scheduled Board 
meetings (of 8)
 Audit 
Committee 
meetings (of 3)
Remuneration 
Committee 
meetings (of 5)
Nomination 
Committee 
meetings (of 2)
Derek Mapp 8 – – 2
Stephen A. Carter 8 – – –
Gareth Wright
1
5 – – –
Gareth Bullock 7 3 – 2
Geoffrey Cooper 7 – 5 –
Pamela Kirby
2
2 – 2 –
John Davis 8 3 5 2
Dr Brendan O’Neill 8 3 5 –
Cindy Rose 7 2 – 2
Helen Owers 8 – 5 –
1 
Gareth Wright was appointed to the Board on 9 July 2014.
2 
Pamela Kirby stepped down from the Board and Remuneration Committee with effect from 23 May 2014. 
Separate reports from the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees can be found on pages 84 to 107 .
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
RUPERT HOPLEY
COMPANY SECRETARY
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 83
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
OBJECTIVE
To ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 
Board and its Committees.
GOVERNANCE
All the members of the Nomination Committee (the 
“Committee”) are independent Non-Executive Directors.
DUTIES
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on 
the Company’s website. The Committee’s principal 
responsibilities include:
reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board;
giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors 
and senior executives, taking into account the skills and 
experience needed on the Board in the future;
identifying, and nominating for approval by the Board, 
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise;
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, 
experience and diversity of the Board prior to any 
appointment to the Board;
keeping under review the leadership needs of the 
organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive;
reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation 
process that relate to the composition of the Board; and
annually reviewing the time required from 
Non-Executive Directors.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING 
THE YEAR
During the year the Committee met twice to address changes 
to Board and Committee composition. The resignation of 
Adam Walker as Group Finance Director at the end of 2013 
resulted in a search for a successor which was conducted 
by JCA, an independent search consultancy. Following a review 
of a number of candidates this Committee recommended to 
the Board that Gareth Wright was the most suitable candidate. 
His appointment on 9 July 2014 brought about a smooth 
transition given his prior knowledge and experience within 
the Group.
Dr Pamela Kirby stepped down from the Board and this 
Committee after nine years’ service on 23 May 2014 and 
her role as Senior Independent Director was filled by Gareth 
Bullock. Both Gareth Bullock and Cindy Rose joined the 
Committee in May.
CHAIRMAN 
Derek Mapp
OTHER MEMBERS
Dr Brendan O’Neill (from 1 January 2015) 
Gareth Bullock (from 23 May 2014) 
Cindy Rose (from 23 May 2014) 
John Davis (until 31 December 2014) 
Dr Pamela Kirby (until 23 May 2014)
SECRETARY
Rupert Hopley
www.informa.com
84 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 At the 2015 AGM, John Davis will have served more than nine 
years on the Board, having been elected at the 2006 AGM. 
As part of the annual review of the Board members and the 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors, the other 
members of the Committee particularly reviewed his 
engagement and participation at the Board and Committee 
meetings, and his relationship with the Executive Directors. 
In the light of his constructive but challenging engagement in 
those meetings, and taking into account the changes in the 
Executive Directors in 2014, the Committee determined that 
he is still independent, notwithstanding the length of his tenure. 
So as the Company and the Board can continue to benefit 
from his skills, experience, independence and knowledge, 
John Davis will seek re-election as a Director at the 2015 AGM. 
If re-elected, he will stand down from the Board at the 2016 
AGM. It has also been agreed that he stand down from the 
Nomination Committee with effect from 31 December 2014 
and that Dr Brendan O’Neill join the Committee with effect 
from 1 January 2015.
The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and 
discussed the composition and the mix of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity of the Board.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR SEARCHES
The Committee uses the services of specialist search 
consultants to seek suitable external candidates for 
appointment to the Board and its Committees. The Committee 
identifies the specific experience and skills that the Company 
is looking for and then works with the search consultants to 
identify suitable candidates who match those criteria. External 
candidates, together with any internal candidates, are then 
interviewed by the Committee and the successful candidate is 
proposed by the Committee to the Board for approval. During 
the year the Committee was supported by JCA in the Group 
Finance Director search and JCA is entirely independent of 
the Company.
BOARD AND EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY
The Company operates a successful business based on 
a proven track record of equal opportunity and reward for 
performance. Around 57% of our employees are women 
(3,798 out of a total of 6,627) and they account for around 
30% of the senior managers (17 out of a total of 56) within the 
Group at 31 December 2014. Further information on diversity 
within the Group can be found in the Corporate Responsibility 
Report on page 69.
At Board level, we believe that the current representation, 
as at the date of this report, of two female Non-Executive 
Directors (22%) is acceptable given the current size of the 
Board. However, we remain committed to our targets around 
the representation of women on the Board. Our Board 
composition and size are kept under constant review, so as to 
ensure we have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
diversity and knowledge of the Group within our independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
ACTION PLAN FOR 2015
Continue to review succession planning for the Board 
and for key roles Group-wide
Identify future talent pipeline
Develop initiatives for Directors
Provide Group-wide exposure for Non-Executive Directors
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
DEREK MAPP
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 85
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
OBJECTIVE
To be responsible for corporate reporting, risk management 
and internal control procedures, and for maintaining the 
relationship with the Company’s external auditor.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
The membership of the Committee is set out on pages 70 
and 71. The Committee met three times during the year to 
31 December 2014 and all meetings were fully attended by 
the members apart from one meeting missed by Cindy Rose 
due to a long-standing business commitment. It meets as 
appropriate with the Executive Directors and management, 
as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors. 
During the year the Committee received sufficient, reliable and 
timely information from the senior managers to enable it to fulfil 
its duties.
GOVERNANCE
The Committee’s Chairman, Dr Brendan O’Neill, is a qualified 
Management Accountant and has extensive experience of 
Audit Committee procedures. John Davis is a qualified 
Chartered Accountant and until November 2010 was the 
Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc (renamed Hibu plc 
in July 2012).
The meetings of the Committee are structured to investigate 
the key accounting, audit and risk issues that are relevant to 
the Group. The varied experiences of its members assist in 
providing a challenging environment in which these issues are 
discussed. The Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit 
and Head of Group Tax attend all or part of its proceedings 
in order to provide information to, and be questioned by, the 
Committee. The composition of the Committee was reviewed 
during the year and the Board and Committee are satisfied 
that it has the expertise and resource to fulfil its responsibilities 
effectively, including those relating to risk and control. 
DUTIES
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website. The Committee’s terms of reference allow 
it to obtain independent external advice at the Company’s 
expense. No such advice was obtained during 2014.
The Committee is responsible for:
reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a 
whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy;
monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s 
performance;
CHAIRMAN
Dr Brendan O’Neill
OTHER MEMBERS
John Davis, Cindy Rose, Gareth Bullock
SECRETARY
Rupert Hopley
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee 
(the “Committee”) for the financial year ended 
31 December 2014. One of the core requirements of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) is for the 
Annual Report and Accounts to provide a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Group’s financial 
reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for 
the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and 
that these remain effective. The Committee devotes 
significant time to each of these matters.
The Committee acknowledges that the Code was revised 
in September 2014 and is applicable to accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. The 
Committee’s terms of reference were revised in February 
2015 to take account of the changes. We will set out our 
compliance with the revised Code in next year’s report.
The Committee’s agenda for 2014 has included the usual 
review of our financial results and controls, our business 
operations and their management of risk. Further details 
are included in this report. The Board considers that 
the Committee’s members have broad commercial 
knowledge and a suitable mix of business and financial 
experience. The existing experience of John Davis, 
Cindy Rose and myself was supplemented in 2014 
by the addition of Gareth Bullock to the Committee. 
He has broad experience, as detailed on page 71.
DR BRENDAN O’NEILL
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
www.informa.com
86 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process 
and evaluating the external auditor;
making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the 
external auditor;
ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group 
and the external auditor is maintained, including setting 
policy for and reviewing non-audit related services and fees;
annually reviewing the Group’s system of internal controls 
and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group. These responsibilities 
are principally carried out through the Risk Committee 
whose activities are overseen by the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on behalf of the Board;
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit 
function and for approving, upon the recommendation of 
the Group Chief Executive, the appointment and termination 
of the head of that function; and
monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing procedures to ensure 
that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to 
be able to raise in confidence matters of possible impropriety, 
with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING 
THE YEAR
During 2014, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms 
of reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by:
reviewing the Group’s draft full year and half-yearly results 
statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the 
external auditor’s detailed reports thereon, in particular 
reviewing the opinions of management and the auditor 
in relation to the carrying values of the Group’s assets;
reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies;
reviewing the impact on the Group’s financial statements 
of matters such as the adoption of new or amended IFRSs;
recommending to the full Board, which adopted the 
recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Group’s external auditor;
reviewing and recommending to the Board the audit fee 
and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Group’s 
external auditor;
reviewing the external auditor’s plan for the audit of the 
Group’s financial statements, which included key areas 
of scope of work, key risks on the financial statements, 
confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed 
audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for 
the audit;
reviewing the Group’s system of controls and its 
effectiveness. In particular, it approves the annual Internal 
Audit plan and reviews the work done by Internal Audit 
and actions which are agreed following the work;
approving the decision to continue with an outsourced 
Internal Audit function, and overseeing the reappointment 
of KPMG LLP in this role;
reviewing the Group’s systems to identify and manage 
risks (including regular consultation with the Head of 
Internal Audit and in particular the operation of the 
Group’s Risk Committee);
reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s tax policies 
and tax risks; and
reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and 
performance of significant recent acquisitions compared 
to plans.
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT 
JUDGEMENT AREAS
In assessing the appropriateness of the financial statements, 
the Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies 
have been adopted and whether management have made 
appropriate estimates and judgements. The Committee reviews 
accounting papers prepared by management which provide 
details on the main financial reporting judgements. The 
Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on the 
full year and half-yearly results which highlight any issues with 
respect to the work undertaken on the audit. During the year 
end process, the Committee concentrated on the following 
significant judgement areas:
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets:
The Committee considered whether the carrying value of 
goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group should be 
impaired. The judgement in relation to impairment largely 
relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the 
value in use of the cash-generating units being tested for 
impairment. This involves considering whether the five year 
operating profit forecasts produced by management are 
achievable, the overall macro-economic assumptions which 
underlie the valuation process and the discount rates used. 
The Committee principally addressed this matter using 
reports received from management outlining the headroom 
on the impairment testing.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 87
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (CONTINUED)
Recoverability of long-term receivables:
The Committee considered whether the long-term 
receivables held by the Group were recoverable. As 
described in “Principal Risk Factors” on pages 62 to 65, the 
Group has a small number of long-term external loans where 
the recoverability of the capital and interest payments is 
dependent on the financial success of those external parties 
over the coming years. Since the majority of the repayment 
terms are over a long period of time, assessing the future 
recoverability of the long-term receivables involves 
judgement. The Committee addressed this matter by 
challenging management on their assumptions and then 
requesting reports on the receivables where they felt further 
explanation was required.
Accounting for acquisitions:
The Committee notes that there is judgement involved in 
identifying and valuing the consideration and the assets 
acquired in a business combination or in the acquisition of 
businesses’ trade and assets. The Committee addressed this 
matter by challenging management on their assumptions and 
methodology supporting the fair value of intangible and net 
assets acquired for each significant acquisition in the year. 
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The Committee is also responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Group’s policy on 
external audit. The policy assigns oversight responsibility for 
monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with 
ethical and regulatory requirements to the Committee, and 
day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director. It states 
that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and 
the Committee and that the Committee is the primary contact. 
The policy also sets out the categories of non-audit services 
which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to 
provide to the Group, subject to de minimis levels.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the 
external auditor, the Committee reviewed:
the external auditor’s plan for the current year, noting the 
role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit 
report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has 
not held office for more than five years, and any changes 
in the key audit staff;
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the 
audit relationship;
a report from the external auditor describing their 
arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts 
of interest; and
the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor, in addition to its approval of the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditor that exceed 
the pre-approval threshold.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, 
the Committee reviewed:
the arrangements for ensuring the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity;
the external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan 
and any variations from the plan;
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
the content of the external auditor’s reporting on 
internal control.
www.informa.com
88 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Following the above, the Committee has recommended to the 
Board that Deloitte LLP is reappointed as the Group’s external 
auditor at the 2015 AGM. Deloitte LLP has been the Group’s 
external auditor since 2004 when the last external audit tender 
was carried out. The Committee considers that the relationship 
with the external auditor is working well and remains satisfied 
with its effectiveness. The external auditor is required to rotate 
the senior statutory audit partner responsible for the Group 
and Parent Company audits every five years. The current 
senior statutory audit partner is Anthony Morris. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external 
auditor. The Committee has reviewed the requirements of the 
Code and the non-binding suggested transitional arrangements 
in the Financial Reporting Council guidance relating to the new 
provision for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every 10 years. The Committee 
has concluded that its current intention is to conduct a 
re-tender process in 2016, but will review whether to initiate 
a re-tender process in 2015 if it feels it is necessary. 
The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditor. This policy provides that the 
firm’s services may only be provided where auditor objectivity 
and independence may be securely safeguarded and where 
the fees payable either in respect of the assigned work or 
overall in any year do not exceed the amount of fees payable in 
respect of its audit work. The Committee considers that certain 
non-audit services should be provided by the external auditor 
given its existing knowledge of the business and is therefore 
the most efficient and effective way for non-audit services to 
be carried out. The fees paid to the external auditor for both 
audit and non-audit services can be found in Note 8 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-audit services, other than audit-related services, provided 
by the external auditor during 2014 related to Corporate 
Finance services with respect to the listing of the new UK-
domiciled ultimate Parent Company. All of these services 
were below the Group’s pre-approval threshold.
POLICY ON NON-AUDIT SERVICES 
PROVIDED BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
PERMITTED NON-AUDIT SERVICES, SUBJECT 
TO APPROVAL UNDER THE POLICY
Acquisition or disposal advice and support
Financial information systems design and implementation
Appraisal or valuation services
Actuarial services
Internal Audit outsourcing services which are restricted 
to the provision of specialist resources where the external 
audit team will not place reliance on their own work
Tax compliance, tax planning and tax advisory work, 
following an appropriate tender process; subject to 
Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts 
and annual review of overall amounts 
Expatriate tax work, subject to Group HR approval and 
Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts 
and annual review of overall amounts 
Other assurance services – no pre-approval is required 
where it is in the normal course of the auditor’s work to 
perform such activities
PROHIBITED NON-AUDIT SERVICES
Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting 
records or financial statements
Consultancy services related to the implementation 
of management information systems
Appraisal or valuation services are prohibited where 
significant subjectivity is involved as the auditor may 
have to audit their own work
Legal services if these are related to significant 
Group matters
Tax services on a contingent fee basis
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
DR BRENDAN O’NEILL
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 89
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am presenting this report following my appointment as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, effective from 
30 March 2015. I would like to thank my predecessors, 
Geoffrey Cooper, for his contribution during 2014, and 
Dr Pamela Kirby, who stepped down from the Board at 
last year’s AGM, for her service and dedication over the 
previous nine years.
As disclosed on page 71, I was Group Executive Director 
of Standard Chartered plc up until 2010 and since then 
I have been a member of a number of Plc Boards, including 
Tesco plc and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc where I was, 
among other things, the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. I am currently the Senior Independent Director 
at Informa and Non-executive Director of Tesco Personal 
Finance Group Limited, as well as being a Trustee of the 
British Council so I have extensive experience of setting 
the policy and remuneration packages for senior 
management. This year we also gained the benefit of 
Helen Owers joining the Committee. Helen has extensive 
experience leading and incentivising her teams when she 
was previously President, Global Businesses at Thomson 
Reuters and their Chief Development Officer.
The following Report is split into two sections:
Informa’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy  
(pages 92 to 98); and
the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2014  
(pages 98 to 107).
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the “Policy”) is, with 
minor changes outlined below, the same as the policy 
that was approved at the 2014 AGM with over 93% of the 
votes cast supporting the policy. The Policy is being 
presented to shareholders for approval at the 2015 AGM 
due to Informa’s re-domiciliation from Switzerland to the 
UK. Informa PLC (the new parent holding company of the 
Informa Group of companies) is subject to the UK legal 
requirements which govern directors’ remuneration and 
is required to have the Policy approved by shareholders 
as a result.
The Annual Report on Remuneration (the “Report”) will 
also be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the 
2015 AGM.
As well as undertaking a number of activities that form 
part of the annual cycle, in 2014 the Committee also:
approved the launch of a new global, all-employee 
share incentive scheme called ShareMatch;
designed the remuneration package of the new Group 
Finance Director; and
consulted with major shareholders on the existing 
Executive Directors’ remuneration structure.
CHAIRMAN
Gareth Bullock (effective from 30 March 2015)
OTHER MEMBERS
Dr Brendan O’Neill 
John Davis 
Helen Owers 
Dr Pamela Kirby (until 23 May 2014) 
Geoffrey Cooper (until 30 March 2015)
SECRETARY
Rupert Hopley
OBJECTIVE
To set and review the remuneration policy and strategy, 
and individual remuneration packages of the Executive 
Directors and to recommend for approval the 
introduction and rules of all Group share-based 
incentive schemes.
www.informa.com
90 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 In June 2014, the Committee approved the launch of 
ShareMatch, a new global share incentive scheme 
available to the majority of employees. ShareMatch 
offers employees the opportunity to directly share in the 
Company’s future success through the ownership of 
Informa shares. We believe that increasing the level of 
employee equity ownership will help align the employees’ 
interests with those of the Company and shareholders. 
The Company encourages participation by matching an 
employee’s investment on a one for two basis, up to £1,800 
per annum, with the matching shares vesting after a three 
year holding period. ShareMatch was shortlisted for an 
award at the Institute of Financial Services ProShare 
Awards in 2014 and 13% of the eligible employees 
currently participate. 
The Committee considered and approved the remuneration 
package for Gareth Wright, in relation to his appointment 
as Group Finance Director effective from 9 July 2014. 
Further details regarding his package are provided later 
in the Report.
In early 2014 the Committee considered changes to the 
existing remuneration structure and in particular to the 
existing equity-based Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). 
We engaged with key institutional investors and following 
the consultation, in response to feedback received, the 
Committee decided not to pursue the proposed changes. 
The Committee subsequently agreed that whilst the LTIP 
structure would remain unchanged in relation to awards 
to be granted in 2014, different metrics would be applied 
to the performance conditions as detailed later on in 
this Report.
During 2014, the results of an in-depth review of Group 
strategy were announced in the form of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan (see pages 15 to 17 for further details). 
In support of the Growth Acceleration Plan, the Committee 
again reviewed the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
arrangements, taking into consideration shareholder 
feedback, guidance and expectations. The Committee 
recognised that the present approach to Executive 
Directors’ remuneration possesses great strengths, 
not least its simplicity and high degree of focus. We 
undertook further consultation with key institutional 
investors and, following the positive feedback, the 
Committee will adopt an evolutionary approach to 
remuneration and changes consistent with the aims 
of the Growth Acceleration Plan that are proposed to 
take effect in 2015. The proposed change will amend 
the performance metrics relating to the LTIP by updating 
the TSR comparator group and introducing EPS CAGR 
as well as adding malus and clawback provisions to 
the policy. At a high level, the changes to performance 
metrics are as follows:
2014 2015
Annual Bonus Plan 100% EPS 100% EPS
Long-Term Incentive Plan 33%
1
–37.5%
2
TSR vs. FTSE All Share Media 50% TSR vs. select FTSE 51–150 companies
33%
1
–37.5%
2
TSR vs. FTSE 350 ex. Investment 
Trusts 50% EPS CAGR
25%
2
–33%
1
Individual strategic objectives
1 
The percentages detailed above apply to Gareth Wright.
2 
The percentages detailed above apply to Stephen A. Carter. 
These changes to the performance metrics support the 
revised business strategy through the alignment of the 
performance measures of our incentive plans with the 
priorities of the Growth Acceleration Plan and also 
strengthen the alignment of our incentive plans with 
sustained long-term performance. We aim to re-architect 
some of the remuneration measures down through the 
Divisions, during 2015. This will reflect the changes to 
performance metrics proposed in this report, in order 
to achieve a greater alignment between management 
incentives across the Group and the priorities set out in 
the revised strategy and the Growth Acceleration Plan. 
Additional details are summarised on page 92 where 
we set out how our Remuneration Policy will be 
implemented in 2015. We will consider adapting 
performance measures in future remuneration plans 
as we strive to align performance with the changing 
shape and focus of the group.
In summary, during 2014 we have proactively engaged 
with the executives and the institutional investors to 
ensure there has been an increased dialogue on the 
matter of executive remuneration. We will continue to 
monitor and engage, when appropriate, on the topic 
during 2015.
GARETH BULLOCK
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 91
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The following section sets out our Directors’ Remuneration Policy. This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 
2015 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 and will take effect from the date of approval. The Policy 
remains the same as that previously approved by shareholders at the AGM held in May 2014 except for certain minor changes 
described earlier and continues to reflect Informa’s long-standing approach to remuneration which has been in effect since 2009.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is designed to provide for a competitive compensation package which reflects the 
Group’s performance against financial objectives. Incentives reward above-average performance and are designed to attract, 
motivate and retain high calibre executives.
The table below summarises the six key elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and the fees paid to the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors:
Element
Overview and  
link to strategy Operation
Performance  
framework Maximum
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Base salary Executive Directors 
receive an annual salary 
which the Committee 
considers to be market 
competitive.
Reviewed by the Committee prior 
to the beginning of each year and 
upon a change of position or 
scope of responsibility.
In deciding appropriate levels, 
the Committee considers pay 
practices in the Group as a whole 
and makes reference to objective 
external data which gives current 
information on remuneration 
practices in appropriate comparator 
companies of a similar size to 
Informa and listed in the UK.
If in the Committee’s judgement 
it is appropriate to appoint an 
individual on a salary below 
market norms, the Committee 
may exceed the ‘normal’ rate of 
increase set out in the policy table 
in the following two to three years 
based on performance in role.
Levels are not subject to the 
achievement of performance 
measures. However, an individual’s 
experience, development and 
performance in the role will be 
taken into account when setting 
and reviewing salary levels.
There are no prescribed maximum 
increases for base salary. In usual 
circumstances, increases will be 
limited to those awarded to Group 
employees taking into account 
performance and geography. In 
exceptional circumstances, such 
as significant increase in the size/
complexity of the Group or an 
individual’s role and scope, the 
Committee can exceed this 
‘normal’ level of increase.
Benefits The arrangements offer 
Executive Directors 
market competitive 
benefits to retain 
and attract high 
calibre individuals.
Ongoing benefits may include 
company car, death-in-service, 
family private health insurance, 
family dental insurance, accident 
insurance and permanent health 
insurance cover.
In the event of an international 
relocation additional benefits may 
include relocation, housing and 
schooling costs, financial advice 
and repatriation. It is the intention 
that any such arrangements 
ensure that an individual is not 
adversely impacted should the 
Group require them to relocate.
Not subject to performance 
measurement.
The maximum car allowance is 
£20,000 per annum. Other benefits 
are provided through third parties 
and therefore the cost to the 
Company and value to the 
Executive Directors may vary. 
However, the nature of the 
provision will remain unchanged.
There is no prescribed maximum for 
benefits related to an international 
relocation given the nature of the 
provision and the amounts will 
vary based on factors such as 
an individual’s circumstances 
and the countries involved.
Retirement 
and life 
assurance 
benefits
The arrangements 
offer Executive 
Directors a retirement 
plan contribution which 
is motivating and in line 
with previous plans at 
the point of recruitment 
as well as in line with 
the market.
Retirement benefits will be paid in 
part or full into a Group Personal 
Pension or Personal Pension 
vehicle. The pension allowance 
may also be taken in full or part as 
a gross cash payment. Any cash 
payment will be paid monthly. Life 
assurance is payable in a lump 
sum, in the event of the insured’s 
death-in-service.
Not subject to performance 
measurement.
Retirement benefits: 
25% of base salary
Life assurance: 
Four times base salary.
www.informa.com
92 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Element
Overview and  
link to strategy Operation
Performance  
framework Maximum
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Annual bonus The Annual Bonus Plan 
rewards Executive 
Directors for delivery 
of excellent levels of 
annual performance.
Performance metrics are 
selected to ensure a focus 
on improvements in 
short-term performance 
that will help drive the 
sustainable long-term 
success of the Group.
Bonus can be delivered entirely 
in cash, or in a combination of 
cash and shares. Any bonus up 
to 100% of base salary is paid in 
cash and any above 100% of base 
salary up to 150% of base salary 
is deferred under the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan.
Any bonus that is paid in the 
form of shares will be deferred 
for a period of three years and 
will attract a dividend equivalent 
payment in the form of cash 
on vesting.
Under the terms of the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan, if certain events 
occur including a restatement 
(downwards) of the Company’s 
results for any year for which the 
results formed the basis of the 
deferred share element relevant to 
an option, the Directors have the 
absolute discretion to reduce the 
number of option shares under/or 
cancel the relevant option (“malus”) 
or require the repayment of the 
shares or an equivalent amount 
(“clawback”) once shares 
have been received by the 
Executive Director.
The performance measures, 
weightings and targets are set 
annually by the Committee.
Bonus opportunity will be linked 
to the achievement of challenging 
financial and, when appropriate, 
non-financial performance targets. 
Details of the measures and their 
weightings will be disclosed 
annually in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration, with the 
targets disclosed provided 
they are not deemed to be 
commercially sensitive.
The quantum of bonus is 
determined on a specified range. 
Below threshold performance 
results in a zero bonus. On-target 
performance results in a cash 
bonus equal to 100% of base 
salary. Maximum payout is 
capped at the equivalent of 
150% of base salary.
The Committee reserves the right 
to adjust the targets if events occur 
(e.g. material acquisition and/or 
divestment of a Group business) 
which cause it to determine that 
they are no longer appropriate.
150% of base salary. Up to 100% 
of base salary paid in cash and 50% 
of base salary deferred into equity 
in the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
awards
The LTIP rewards 
Executive Directors 
for delivery of strong, 
sustained performance 
over a period of 
three years.
Executive Directors can receive 
an annual award of shares (or 
share-based equivalent) subject 
to the achievement of specified 
standards over a three year 
performance period.
In certain circumstances, the 
Directors will have the discretion 
to apply malus or clawback and 
reduce the size or cancel an 
unvested award or require the 
repayment of the shares received 
or an equivalent cash amount.
The performance measures, 
weightings and targets are set 
annually by the Committee. 
LTIP awards will be linked to 
the achievement of challenging 
financial and, when appropriate, 
non-financial performance targets.
Details of the measures and 
their weightings will be disclosed 
annually in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration, with the targets 
disclosed, at the start or at the 
end of the performance period, 
provided they are not deemed 
to be commercially sensitive.
At the end of the performance 
period, the Committee will assess 
performance against the targets 
set and review any other relevant 
events during the period in 
reaching a judgement with 
respect to the overall level of 
vesting under the award.
The following awards are payable 
as a percentage of maximum in 
respect of different levels of 
performance:
Threshold: 20%
Maximum: 100%
200% of salary.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 93
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Element
Overview and  
link to strategy Operation
Performance  
framework Maximum
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (continued)
Share 
Incentive 
Plans (“SIPs”)
To encourage share 
ownership in Informa 
in those markets where 
SIPs are operated.
SIPs may be operated in markets 
that Informa operates in. These 
SIPs will be informed by relevant 
tax and share legislation. For 
example, in the UK, the Company 
operates a SIP which qualifies 
for tax benefits.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to allow Executive 
Directors to participate in SIPs 
that operate in their home 
market, where the terms of 
participation are consistent 
for all eligible employees.
The Board has shareholder 
authority to match employee 
subscriptions up to a maximum 
two for one basis.
Not subject to performance 
measurement.
Limits vary according to local market 
practice. In the UK the default limits 
set out in the UK tax legislation will 
serve as a maximum, although lower 
levels may be operated in practice.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Fees The fees are set in order 
to attract and retain 
high calibre individuals 
by offering market 
competitive fees, taking 
into account the time 
that is required to fulfil 
the relevant role.
Fees are reviewed annually.
The Chairman of the Board is 
paid a consolidated fee to reflect 
all the duties associated with 
the position.
The Non-Executive Directors 
receive a base fee reflecting 
their duties on the Board and 
memberships of any Committees. 
The Senior Independent Director 
and chairs of Board Committees 
are eligible for an additional fee, 
reflecting the additional time and 
expertise required.
The Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors are covered under the 
Group accident and travel policy 
(as it relates to work on behalf of 
Informa). Expenses in line with 
Informa policy will be reimbursed.
Not subject to performance 
measurement.
There is no prescribed maximum but 
the levels will reflect the prevailing 
market practice.
www.informa.com
94 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 MALUS AND CLAWBACK
The malus and/or clawback provisions may be applied  
in the following situations:
material misstatement of the Group’s financial results;
as a result of a regulatory investigation or a breach of 
any material legislation, rule or code of conduct; and
if, after the Executive Director has left employment with 
the Group, facts emerge which, if known at the time, 
would have resulted in either the share award lapsing 
or discretion being applied by the Board.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND THE TARGET 
SETTING PROCESS 
The performance measures that apply to awards made 
under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIPs are selected to ensure 
that they align with the strategic priorities of the Group. When 
setting targets, the Committee is mindful of a range of factors 
including internal budgets, strategic ambitions, analysts’ 
consensus views and investor expectations. Depending on 
the nature of the measure, some of these factors will play a 
greater role than others. Targets are set to ensure they are 
suitably challenging with the goal of contributing to long-term 
shareholder value creation.
The Committee also considers corporate performance on 
environmental, social and governance issues when setting 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors. In its judgement 
the remuneration policies for both Executive Directors and 
senior management do not raise environmental, social or 
governance/operational risks by inadvertently motivating 
irresponsible behaviours.
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS
The Company’s policy is that a clear majority of the maximum 
potential remuneration of the Executive Directors should be 
performance related. For each of the Executive Directors, 
the following bar charts and tables illustrate the composition 
of remuneration for the 2015 financial year under three 
performance scenarios:
Minimum, which assumes no variable elements of pay 
are awarded or vest;
Expected, which assumes target bonus is paid (linked to 
delivering budgeted financial performance) and threshold 
vesting under the LTIP; and
Maximum, which assumes the variable elements of pay 
are awarded or vest in full.
STEPHEN A. CARTER
Level of 
performance Minimum
In line with 
expectations Maximum
Fixed pay Salary: £809,000 
Pension: 25% of salary 
Benefits: £10,000
Annual bonus  
(% of salary) 0% 100% 150%
Long-term 
incentives  
(% of salary) 0% 40% 200%
Maximum
Minimum
Expected 
value
 
Fixed
pay
 
Annual
bonus
Long-term
incentives
27% 31%
47%
100%
38%
42%
15%
 £3,852,750
 £2,153,850
 £1,021,250
GARETH WRIGHT
Level of 
performance Minimum
In line with 
expectations Maximum
Fixed pay Salary: £459,000 
Pension: 25% of salary 
Benefits: £10,000
Annual bonus  
(% of salary) 0% 100% 150%
Long-term 
incentives  
(% of salary) 0% 30% 150%
Maximum
Minimum
Expected 
value
 
Fixed
pay
 
Annual
bonus
Long-term
incentives
30% 35%
49%
100%
39%
35%
12%
 £1,960,750
 £1,180,450
 £583,750
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 95
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
No elements of pay for the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors are subject to performance, as set out in the 
Policy table.
OTHER REMUNERATION POLICIES
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
There are a number of factors that the Committee will take 
into account when making an appointment to the Board, 
which may vary depending on whether the individual is an 
external hire or internal promotion. While the intention is that 
the elements of pay will be consistent with the table set out 
earlier in this Policy, to allow for the uncertainties associated 
with making appointments, particularly when recruiting 
externally, the following guiding principles additionally form 
part of the appointments policy for Executive Directors:
Salary levels will be informed by those factors set out in the 
Policy table, but also by an individual’s prior experience. If in 
the Committee’s judgement it is appropriate to appoint an 
individual on a salary below market norms, the Committee 
may exceed the ‘normal’ rate of increase set out in the 
Policy table in the following two to three years based on 
performance in role.
Benefits will be in line with the elements set out in the Policy 
table but may vary if a non-UK national is appointed or if a 
role is to be based outside the UK.
The aggregate incentive awards that can be received in one 
year will not exceed 350% of salary, in line with the maxima 
in the Policy table. However, the Committee reserves the 
right to make aggregate incentive awards of up to 400% 
in exceptional circumstances. In the year of appointment 
an off-cycle award under the LTIP may be made by the 
Committee to ensure an immediate alignment of interests. 
Performance measures and targets will be reviewed and 
may be changed to ensure they are appropriate depending 
on the timing and nature of the appointment.
In the event of an external appointment, the Committee may 
buy-out incentive awards (both annual and long term) that 
the individual has forfeited on departure. In determining 
the nature of any award, the Committee will be informed 
by the likelihood of vesting, the applicability of performance 
requirements, the time horizons, the anticipated value of 
any awards and the vehicle of the awards. The Committee 
may rely on the Listing Rules exemption (Rule 9.4.2) to the 
extent that the existing plan limits do not provide sufficient 
headroom to enable the award of a share-based buy-out.
In the event of an internal appointment to the Board, 
pre-existing obligations can be honoured by the Committee 
and so payment will be permitted under this Policy.
Fees for any new Non-Executive Director will be set in 
accordance with the levels prevailing for the other Non-
Executives at the time of the appointment. In the event of 
a new Chairman being appointed, the consolidated fee will 
be informed by the individual’s experience and profile, as well 
as the anticipated time commitment and market rates. The 
Company may pay additional benefits related to travel and 
relocation depending on the nationality and home market 
of the incumbent.
SERVICE CONTRACTS
The Committee’s policy with respect to service contracts 
is summarised below:
Notice period Up to 12 months’ prior notice by either party
Payment in lieu 
of notice 
(“PILON”)
Payment on immediate termination by the 
Company, of salary, benefits allowance and 
pensions allowance covering the Executive 
Director’s notice period. Such payments are 
to be made in equal monthly instalments in 
arrears and the Company is entitled to reduce 
such payments by the amount of any earnings 
received or receivable by the Executive Director 
from any other employment, engagement, office 
or appointment in respect of the same period.
Change of 
control 
provisions
The Executive Director will have no claim against 
the Company against the undertaking arising 
out of or connected with a change of control 
of the Company.
Entitlements 
on termination
No automatic entitlement to compensation 
for the loss of any rights or benefits under any 
share option, bonus, LTIP or other profit sharing 
or benefit scheme operated by the Company.
No payment of salary, benefits allowance, 
pensions allowance or bonus except for 
that described above in PILON.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of 
appointment which are terminable by either party on three 
months’ notice. The service contracts are available for 
inspection at the registered office and will be available 
for inspection at the AGM. 
www.informa.com
96 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 LOSS OF OFFICE
The principle that underpins the Committee’s loss of office policy is that no payments for failure will be made. Loss of office 
payments will be made in accordance with the relevant contractual employment or settlement obligations and provisions under 
the Plan Rules, as illustrated below:
Gross misconduct
Resignation or dismissal 
for cause
Retirement, death or 
negotiated termination 
not for cause Committee discretion
Salary No right to payment past 
last working day for 
summary dismissal.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
Retirement 
benefits
No right to payment past 
last working day for 
summary dismissal.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
Other benefits No right to cover past 
last working day for 
summary dismissal.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
Payable for the period 
of notice if worked 
or unworked.
The Committee 
reserves the right 
to make a payment 
in lieu of benefits 
provision.
Annual bonus 
(cash)
No payment for any unpaid 
cash bonus award.
No right to a bonus or time 
apportioned bonus if the 
Executive Director is under 
notice of termination at 
or before the date when 
a bonus relating to the 
relevant financial year 
might otherwise have 
been payable.
No right to a bonus or time 
apportioned bonus if the 
Executive Director is under 
notice of termination at 
or before the date when 
a bonus relating to the 
relevant financial year 
might otherwise have 
been payable.
The Committee 
reserves the right to 
make a payment but will 
always be subject to the 
performance conditions 
for the relevant 
performance period.
Annual bonus 
(deferred shares)
No right to any deferred 
shares, which are yet to vest.
No right to any shares yet 
to vest at the end of the 
notice period.
All deferred shares are 
awarded at the end 
of the notice period.
Long-term 
incentive awards
No right to any LTIP 
awards yet to vest.
No right to any LTIP 
awards yet to vest.
The vesting of all LTIP shares 
is brought forward to the 
termination date with 
performance measured 
around that time and awards 
pro-rated to that day.
Share awards 
under SIPs
Entitled to employee 
purchased shares only.
Entitled to employee 
purchased shares only.
Entitled to employee 
purchased shares and, 
in certain circumstances, 
any matching shares.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 97
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s service 
contract with immediate effect by giving written notice of its 
intention to make a payment in lieu of notice to the Executive 
Director equal to the salary, benefits allowance and pensions 
allowance that the Executive Director would be entitled to 
receive during the unexpired part of the notice period less 
any required deductions.
Letters of appointment of the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors provide for payment of accrued fees up to the date 
of termination together with reimbursement of any expenses 
properly incurred prior to the date of termination. Termination 
may be for any reason, including resignation, non-re-election 
by shareholders, gross misconduct or termination for cause.
CONSIDERATIONS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT WHEN 
SETTING THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee’s primary 
focus is on the needs of the business, strategic alignment and 
what is in the best interests of shareholders. Market practice 
more generally, feedback from shareholders and aspects of 
practices across the Group are taken into account.
PRACTICES ACROSS THE GROUP
Informa is a diverse company, in terms of geography, business 
portfolio and remuneration practices (driven by a large number 
of small acquisitions). While the Committee does take into 
account some aspects of remuneration across the Group 
when setting Executive Directors’ pay policy (largely base pay 
increases), other areas are less relevant given the significant 
differences in operation which are influenced by geography, 
line of business and, where appropriate, legacy plans that were 
operated on acquisition. As a result, the levels and structure of 
remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from 
the policy for Executive Directors as set out earlier but with the 
common intention that remuneration agreements have regard 
to all reasonable factors. In addition, for the reasons mentioned 
earlier, and also the operational challenges and cost associated 
with undertaking the exercise, the Committee has not sought 
employee views on the formulation of the Policy and no 
comparison metrics are used.
In summary, for the senior management team base salary 
is reviewed annually taking into account factors consistent 
with the executive pay review. However, incentive pay varies 
significantly with far greater focus placed on annual 
performance in the relevant Division or business unit.
FEEDBACK FROM SHAREHOLDERS
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received 
at the AGM each year and, more generally, guidance from 
shareholder representative bodies. It also engages with 
shareholders as and when appropriate on specific matters 
or in the event of a significant vote against.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The following section sets out details of the Directors’ 
Remuneration in 2014, along with how the policy will be 
implemented in 2015.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible to the Board. The principal 
responsibilities of the Committee are set out on pages 90 and 
91 and in the Committee’s terms of reference. The terms of 
reference were reviewed during the year and are available 
on the Group website. 
The membership of the Committee during 2014 was as follows:
Geoffrey Cooper (Chairman of Committee) 
Dr Pamela Kirby (member until 23 May 2014) 
Dr Brendan O’Neill 
John Davis 
Helen Owers
The Company Chairman, Derek Mapp, usually attends the 
meetings by invitation only but is not present when matters 
relating to his own remuneration are discussed. The Committee 
met five times during 2014 and there was full attendance at 
each meeting. Dr Pamela Kirby attended two meetings in 2014 
prior to stepping down from the Board at the AGM in May 2014. 
None of the members who served on the Committee during 
the year had any personal financial interest (other than as a 
shareholder of the Company) or conflicts of interests arising 
from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running 
the business.
In determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration, the 
Committee consulted the Chairman about its proposals; no 
Executive Director played a part in any decision about his 
or her own remuneration. The Company Secretary and the 
Director of Talent & Transformation also provided assistance 
to the Committee during the year.
Towers Watson Inc. was appointed by the Committee as 
its remuneration adviser in 2010 following a formal tender 
process, and continued to provide advice during the year. 
The Committee has satisfied itself that Towers Watson’s advice 
is independent and objective, taking into account the fact that 
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and they follow its voluntary code of conduct. Towers 
Watson does not provide any other material services to the 
Group. Dr Brendan O’Neill is a member of the Towers Watson 
plc board, the holding company of Towers Watson Inc., and 
is not and has never taken part in any discussions on the 
selection of advisers or their contract. Fees paid to Towers 
Watson in respect of services during the financial year ended 
31 December 2014 amount to £110,000 and primarily related 
to attendance at Committee meetings, advice in relation to the 
Executive Director appointment, incentive plan performance 
monitoring, shareholder consultation and AGM support, and 
www.informa.com
98 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 incentive plan design. The Committee has not requested advice from any other external firms apart from Towers Watson 
during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The following table summarises the details of votes cast in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM:
Of issued share capital Votes for Votes against Total votes cast
Votes withheld 
(abstentions)
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 423,754,235 27,349,956 451,104,191 4,420,190
93.94% 6.06% 74.69% –
Annual Remuneration Report 420,924,461 6,146,910 427,071,371 28,453,011
98.56% 1.44% 70.71% –
The following information has been subject to audit.
APPOINTMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
In determining Gareth Wright’s remuneration, the Committee, in consultation with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, took 
into account factors such as prior experience, market data, Informa’s remuneration practices and policy, and broader remuneration 
trends across the Group.
On his appointment as Group Finance Director, it was agreed by the Committee that Gareth Wright would receive:
a basic salary of £450,000 per annum;
a Company contribution of 25% of base salary to the Company’s Group Personal Pension, his own pension vehicle or in full 
or part as a gross cash payment;
an annual bonus opportunity of 150% of base salary which will be subject to the same EPS test as the Group Chief Executive; 
and
an award under the LTIP of 150% of base salary.
As Gareth Wright was an existing employee when appointed Group Finance Director, he was already eligible to participate in the 
Company’s benefits scheme which consists of: death-in-service scheme; the SIPs; private health plan; accident and permanent 
health insurance; and dental and travel insurance for him and his family.
In light of his salary on appointment, the Committee does not envisage exceeding the ‘normal’ rate of increase as provided 
for within our Policy.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SINGLE FIGURE TABLE
(£)
Base 
salary
Taxable 
benefits
3
Pension
Total fixed 
pay
Annual 
bonus
4
Long-term 
incentives
5
Total 
variable 
pay
Other 
remuneration Total
Stephen A. 
Carter
1
2014 793,100 9,677 198,275 1,001,052 793,100 – 793,100 – 1,794,152
2013 256,667 711 64,167 321,545 227,200 – 227,200 – 548,745
Gareth 
Wright
2
2014 212,903 5,599 52,583 271,085 212,903 – 212,903 – 483,988
2013 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 
Stephen A. Carter was appointed CEO-Designate on 1 September 2013. The 2013 figures disclosed represent remuneration for the period 1 September 2013 
to 31 December 2013.
2 
Gareth Wright was appointed as Group Finance Director with effect from 9 July 2014. The 2014 figures disclosed represent remuneration for the period 
9 July 2014 to 31 December 2014.
3 
Taxable benefits include company car, family private health insurance, family dental insurance, accident insurance and permanent health insurance cover.
4 
All of the annual bonus for 2013 and 2014 was payable in cash.
5 
Given their recent appointments, neither Executive Director had long-term incentives due to vest during the period disclosed.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 99
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
The following subsections set out relevant information on each component of the Executive Directors’ remuneration.
BASE SALARY
In line with the Policy, Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed at the end of 2013 and the Committee determined that the basic 
salary of the Executive Directors would increase by 3%.
Previous salary Effective date 2014 salary Effective date
Stephen A. Carter £770,000 1 September 2013 £793,100 1 January 2014
Gareth Wright – – £450,000 9 July 2014
PENSION
Neither of the Executive Directors is a member of the defined benefits schemes provided by the Company or any of its subsidiaries 
and accordingly they have not accrued entitlements under these schemes.
The Company makes a cash payment of 25% of basic salary on behalf of both Stephen A. Carter and Gareth Wright in lieu 
of pension contributions.
ANNUAL BONUS
At the start of the financial year, targets linked to the achievement of budgeted diluted adjusted EPS were set. The Committee 
considered a range of budgeted adjusted EPS outcomes, taking the reported adjusted EPS figure, and making further 
adjustments for changes to the Company’s capital relating to the rights issue, and for the impact in 2014 of M&A activity, taking 
into account the normal levels of such activity. The range of EPS data produced annual incentive payments varying from 95.7% 
to 104.7%. The Committee exercised its discretion to determine that the award should be 100%.
Threshold EPS Target EPS Maximum EPS Actual EPS
36.92p 41.02p 45.12p 40.67p
Performance-related bonus Amount payable in cash
Amount payable 
in deferred shares
Stephen A. Carter £793,100 £793,100 0
Gareth Wright £212,903 £212,903 0
AWARDS GRANTED UNDER THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
The following awards were granted under the LTIP in 2014, in the form of conditional awards:
Date of award
Number of  
shares awarded
Price at date  
of award
1
Value as a 
percentage 
of base salary
Value at date  
of award (£)
Stephen A. Carter 8 September 306,216 518.00p 200% 1,586,199
Gareth Wright 8 September 130,308 518.00p 150% 674,995
1 
All LTIP awards were granted as free conditional awards. The share price used to calculate the value of each award is the share price on the date immediately 
prior to the date of grant of the award. 
www.informa.com
100 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Performance will be measured over three consecutive financial years commencing 1 January 2014 and are subject to the following 
performance conditions:
Performance condition and the associated weighting
TSR relative to FTSE All-Share 
Media constituents
TSR relative to the FTSE 350 
constituents, excluding 
Investment Trusts
Key strategic objectives specific 
to the individual
Stephen A. Carter 37.5% 37.5% 25.0%
Gareth Wright 33.3% 33.3% 33.3%
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) will be measured relative to the performance of the constituent companies in each index at the 
end of the performance period. If Informa ranks at median, 20% of the award will vest. This increases on a straight line basis to 
full vesting for ranking at or above the 80th percentile.
In addition to the TSR measure, the Committee introduced individual strategic objectives for awards made in 2014. Given the 
journey that Informa is on and the Growth Acceleration Plan mentioned in both the Chairman’s Statement and the Report, the 
Committee felt it important to incentivise and reward Executive Directors for key achievements in areas tied to the long-term success 
of this plan. The strategic objectives against which performance will be measured relate to: portfolio evaluation and performance 
in the Business Intelligence Division; operational fitness across the Group; strengthening management talent across the Group; 
and internationalisation and geo-cloning with respect to the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking Divisions. 
The Committee will disclose details of their assessment of performance following the conclusion of the performance period. 
SHAREMATCH (SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN)
Prior to June 2014, the Company offered eligible employees, including Executive Directors, the opportunity to participate in 
a UK tax qualifying SIP , Informa Invest, under which employees could invest up to £125 per month out of gross salary in the 
Company’s shares. This scheme did not include a matching share element.
In June 2014, the Company launched ShareMatch, a global SIP (tax qualifying in the UK), under which eligible employees can 
invest up to the limit of £1,800 per annum out of net salary (gross salary in the UK) in the Company’s shares. The scheme includes 
a matching element, whereby for every two shares purchased, the Company will award the participant one matching share. 
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if the purchased shares are withdrawn from the scheme within three years of purchase. 
In addition, both the purchased and matching shares are eligible to receive any dividends payable by the Company, which are 
reinvested in more shares.
Following the launch of ShareMatch, no further contributions were allowed into the existing Informa Invest and the US Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan.
Both Stephen A. Carter and Gareth Wright participate in ShareMatch.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE
No payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 31 December 2014.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 101
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS
The only payments made to past Directors during the year ended 31 December 2014 were under the Company’s 
pension schemes.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SINGLE FIGURE TABLE
2014 2013
Total fees  
(£)
Taxable 
benefits
Total  
(£)
Total fees  
(£)
Taxable 
benefits
Total  
(£)
Derek Mapp 257,500 – 257,500 250,000 – 250,000
Gareth Bullock
1
66,969 – 66,969 – – –
John Davis 61,214 – 61,214 59,431 – 59,431
Dr Brendan O’Neill 74,305 – 74,305 72,141 – 72,141
Helen Owers 61,214 – 61,214 – – –
Geoffrey Cooper 71,080 – 71,080 – – –
Cindy Rose 61,214 – 61,214 49,526 – 49,526
Dr Pamela Kirby
2
29,617 – 29,617 69,010 – 69,010
1 
Gareth Bullock was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 23 May 2014.
2 
Pamela Kirby resigned as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on stepping down from the Board with effect from 23 May 2014. 
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION IN 2014
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee in consultation with the Group Chief Executive.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors within the limits set 
by the Articles.
With effect from 1 January 2014 the Chairman’s fee and the Non-Executive fees were increased by 3% as shown below:
Previous fee (£) Effective date 2014 fee (£) Effective date
Chairman 250,000 1 January 2013 257,500 1 January 2014
Non-Executive Directors 59,431 1 January 2013 61,214 1 January 2014
Audit Committee Chairman 12,710 1 January 2013 13,091 1 January 2014
Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,579 1 January 2013 9,866 1 January 2014
Senior Independent Directors 9,579 1 January 2013 9,866 1 January 2014
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s SIPs or join any Company pension scheme.
www.informa.com
102 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The following information has not been subject to audit.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIRECTORS’ PAY POLICY IN 2015
The Committee can confirm that the fixed pay for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors in 2015 
has increased by 2% effective 1 January 2015 in line with other Group employees.
The pay policy for 2015 falls within the previously approved Policy but as a direct consequence of the re-domicile in 2014, we 
are required to seek shareholder approval of the same Policy at the 2015 AGM. However, following the review and shareholder 
consultation in late 2014, the Committee intends to amend the performance measures used for the LTIP awards in 2015, 
as follows:
Compound EPS growth, as a new measure, weighted at 50%, replacing the individual strategic measures applied in 2014. 
The balance of awards (50%) will continue to be based on relative TSR performance against a refreshed peer group of select 
companies ranked in the FTSE 51–150.
The introduction of these new measures provides a clear line of sight to the priorities set out in the Growth Acceleration Plan 
(see page 15) and aligns incentive awards with success in delivering against the plan. In summary, these measures seek to balance 
sustainable and efficient growth, while continuing to deliver against EPS expectations and driving long-term shareholder value. 
The Board is currently developing the 2015 budget and long-term financial plan. Following this process, performance measure 
targets and ranges will be set and communicated to participants. The Committee will set appropriately stretching targets for each 
performance cycle, taking into account these internal goals as well as analyst expectations, cost of capital and peer performance.
In addition, in accordance with regulatory body recommendations, the Company will introduce malus and clawback provisions 
from 2015 onwards. The Committee will have the option to exercise the provisions if it sees fit using malus during the vesting 
period for the deferred element of the annual bonus or in relation to an LTIP award during the performance period and clawback 
post-vesting.
HISTORICAL TSR AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY
The graphs below illustrate the TSR performance of Informa compared with the performance of the FTSE All-Share Media Index 
and the FTSE 350 Index excluding Investment Trusts, in the six year period ended 31 December 2014. These indices have been 
selected for this comparison because the Company is a constituent company of both and performance relative to these indices 
informs vesting or partial vesting under the LTIP .
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE
GROWTH IN THE VALUE OF A HYPOTHETICAL £100 HOLDING INVESTED IN INFORMA OVER SIX YEARS
COMPARISON OF SPOT VALUES
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
Dec '14 Dec '13 Dec '12 Dec '11 Dec '10 Dec '09 Dec '08
FTSE All-Share Media Index Informa
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
 
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
Dec '14 Dec '13 Dec '12 Dec '11 Dec '10 Dec '09 Dec '08
FTSE 350 Index excluding 
Investment Trusts
Informa
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 103
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Over the same six year period, total remuneration of the individual holding the role of Group Chief Executive has been as follows:
Year Group Chief Executive Currency
2
Group Chief Executive 
single figure of 
total remuneration
Annual bonus payout 
against maximum 
opportunity (%)
Long-term 
incentive vesting 
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity (%)
3
2014 Stephen A. Carter GBP 1,754,145 66.7 n/a
2013 Stephen A. Carter
1
GBP 588,365 59.0 n/a
Peter Rigby CHF 3,718,566 n/a 0
2012 Peter Rigby CHF 3,987,897 65.9 42.5
2011 Peter Rigby CHF 5,231,269 75.7 74
2010 Peter Rigby CHF 3,067,504 86.3 0
2009 Peter Rigby GBP 1,651,200 83.6 40.2
1
 Group Chief Executive remuneration for Stephen A. Carter for 2013 covers the period from 1 September 2013 to 31 December 2013.
2 
The exchange rate used for 2013 can be found on page 64 of the Annual Report 2013, for 2012 page 59 of the Annual Report 2012, for 2011  
page 57 of the Annual Report 2011 and for 2010 page 44 of the Annual Report 2010.
3 
In respect of the performance period ending 31 December in the relevant financial year. 
CHANGE IN THE REMUNERATION FOR THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE RELATIVE TO EMPLOYEES
The following table shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus from 2013 to 2014 for the Group Chief Executive 
and the average percentage change from 2013 to 2014 for an average employee of the Group:
Salary (%)
1
Benefits (%)
1
Bonus (%)
1
Group Chief Executive (9.1) (95.6) (9.1)
All employees (1.2) (10.7) (2.2)
1
 The Group Chief Executive figures reflect the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus of Peter Rigby in 2013 compared to Stephen Carter in 2014. 
Peter Rigby’s salary, benefits and bonus have been converted from Swiss Francs to Sterling based on the average GBP/CHF exchange rate for 2013 of 1.4464. 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows the aggregate employee remuneration, dividends paid in the year, revenue and operating profit as stated 
in the financial statements, for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013:
2014 2013 % change
Total number of employees
1
6,652 6,593 0.9
Aggregate employee remuneration
1
 (£m) 282.5 283.9 (0.5)
Remuneration per employee (£) 42,468 43,054 (1.4)
Dividends paid in the year
2
 (£m) 114.0 114.0 –
1 
Figures taken from Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2 
Figures taken from Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
The current share ownership guidelines were approved by the Committee in October 2013. Under these guidelines, Executive 
Directors are expected to build up, over a five year period from their date of appointment to the Board, a holding in the Company’s 
shares equal to at least one and a half times annual basic salary. The Company Secretary monitors adherence to the guidelines, 
reports to the Committee and informs the Executive Directors of the extent to which the guidelines have been met.
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
104 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 DIRECTORS’ SHARE INTERESTS
As the Executive Directors were recently appointed, the requirement to hold shares in the Company equal to at least one and 
a half times annual basic salary has not yet been met. The number of shares of the Company in which Executive Directors had 
a beneficial interest and details of their Share Plan Interests as at 31 December 2014 are set out in the table below:
Director
Total
 interests
1
Beneficial 
shareholding
Current 
shareholding 
(% of salary) 
as at the end 
of the 
financial 
year
2
Share Plan Interests
Long-term Incentive Plan –  
Conditional awards
3
ShareMatch 
and Informa 
Invest (Share 
Incentive 
Plans)
4
Unvested
Vested but 
unexercised
Stephen A. Carter 419,220 36,724 22.14% 381,928 – 568
Gareth Wright 190,856 2,616 4.66% 186,404 – 1,836
1 
Total interests are shares held as beneficial, non-beneficial and those held by connected persons, and also shares held in the LTIP, Informa Invest 
and ShareMatch.
2 
The share price as at 31 December 2014 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
3 
All awards made under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions.
4 
Shares held under ShareMatch are made up of shares purchased by the Executive Director, shares ‘matched’ by the Company and dividend shares. 
There have been no changes in the Executive Directors’ shareholdings between 31 December 2014 and the date of this Report. 
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement. Details of their interests in shares as at 31 December 2014 
are set out below:
Non-Executive Director Shareholdings as at 31 December 2014
Derek Mapp 100,000
Gareth Bullock 10,000
John Davis 79,000
Dr Brendan O’Neill 8,200
Cindy Rose –
Geoffrey Cooper 10,252
Helen Owers –
None of the Directors had any beneficial interests in the shares of other Group companies. In addition to the beneficial interests 
in the shares of the Company shown above, during 2014 Stephen A. Carter and Gareth Wright were, for the purposes of the UK 
Companies Act 2006, regarded as interested in the ordinary shares held by Nautilus Trust Company Limited, as trustee of the 
Informa Group Employee Share Trust. This trust held 737 ,272 shares at 31 December 2014, of which 737 ,272 have not been 
allocated to individuals. Employees of the Group (including Stephen A. Carter and Gareth Wright) are potential beneficiaries 
under this trust.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 105
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that the Chairman determines that it 
is appropriate. Stephen A. Carter was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group PLC on 1 September 2014 
and retained fees of £20,000 with respect to this role in the financial year 2014. Stephen was also Chairman of the Board of the 
Ashridge Business School up until April 2014, is a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company and a member of the House 
of Lords; however, he does not receive remuneration for any of these roles.
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS
As a result of the re-domicile to the UK, Stephen A. Carter entered into a new service contract with the Company. That contract 
was executed under English law but the terms and conditions are essentially the same as those contained in his previous service 
contract which had been entered into under Swiss law.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has specific terms of appointment.
The dates of the Directors’ original contracts are shown in the table below. The current contracts, which include details of 
remuneration, are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM. 
The Executive Directors’ contracts have a 12 month notice period by either party and the Non-Executive Directors’ letters 
of appointment are terminable by either party by three months’ notice.
Date of original contract
Executive Directors
Stephen A. Carter
1
9 July 2013
Gareth Wright 9 July 2014
Non-Executive Directors
Derek Mapp 10 May 2004
John Davis 19 September 2005
Dr Brendan O’Neill 26 November 2007
Cindy Rose 1 March 2013
Gareth Bullock 1 January 2014
Geoffrey Cooper 1 January 2014
Helen Owers 1 January 2014
1 
Stephen A. Carter was appointed as CEO-Designate on 1 September 2013 and became Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2014. 
www.informa.com
106 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The following information has been subject to audit.
DIRECTORS’ PARTICIPATION IN THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
The Executive Directors have been granted conditional awards over shares in the Company under the LTIP as detailed in the 
Remuneration Policy table.
The subsisting LTIP awards for the Executive Directors as at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Award date
At  
31 December 
2013 Vested Lapsed Granted
At  
31 December 
2014
End of 
performance 
period
Stephen A. Carter 01.09.2013 75,712 – – – 75,712 31.12.2015
08.09.2014 – – – 306,216
1
306,216 31.12.2016
75,712 – – 306,216 381,928
Gareth Wright 06.03.2012 30,145 – – – 30,145 31.12.2014
07.03.2013 25,951 – – – 25,951 31.12.2015
08.09.2014 – – – 130,308
1
130,308 31.12.2016
56,096 – – 130,308 186,404
1 
The market price of the Company’s shares on the grant date was 518.00p per share. 
Subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions and continued employment, these awards will vest subject 
to a three year performance period, commencing on 1 January of the year of grant.
The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 was 470.8p and the range during the year was 
between 445.9p and 569.0p. The daily average market price during the year was 498.7p.
APPROVAL
This Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
GEOFFREY COOPER
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 107
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INFORMA PLC
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s loss for the year 
then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
related notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
the Parent Company Financial Statements. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
GOING CONCERN
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the 
Directors’ statement on page 76 that the Group is a 
going concern. We confirm that:
we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate; and
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may 
cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS 
OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the 
efforts of the engagement team.
The procedures described in our response to each risk below 
are not exhaustive and we have focused on those procedures 
that we consider address areas of judgement or subjectivity. 
As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive 
tests, we also test the design and implementation of internal 
controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
THE ASSESSMENT OF THE CARRYING VALUE 
OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Risk
The Group has £1.7bn of goodwill and a further £0.8bn of other 
intangible assets on the balance sheet as at 31 December 
2014. Management is required to perform an annual 
impairment test, which is judgmental and based on a number 
of assumptions including those in respect of future profitability, 
cash generation and discount rates. These are described in 
Notes 3, 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the period an impairment of goodwill and intangible 
assets of £202.5m has been recognised (see Note 2 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
We audited the assumptions used in management’s 
impairment test for goodwill and other intangible assets. 
Our audit testing procedures included:
considering the short and medium-term cash flow 
projections (2015–2019) against recent performance, 
historical forecasting accuracy and comparing to relevant 
external market data; 
comparing the long-term growth rate forecasts (from 2020 
onwards) against long-term economic growth rates for 
relevant territories;
involving our internal valuation specialists to assess the 
model used in the impairment test and the appropriateness 
of the key components of the discount rate calculation;
recalculating the impairment loss recorded and the 
sensitivities applied by management and considering 
their reasonableness; and
performing further sensitivity analysis on the 
impairment model.
ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Risk
The Group has completed eight business combinations 
in the period with a total net cash outflow of £352.5m. 
The accounting for each of these involves judgement and 
is based on assumptions about the fair value of assets and 
liabilities acquired, and the consideration paid. Information 
in respect of the acquisitions made is in Note 19.
www.informa.com
108 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
We analysed the sale and purchase agreements for each 
of the business combinations and challenged the acquisition 
accounting applied by management for each. This included: 
testing the validity and completeness of consideration 
to the underlying agreements and consideration paid;
evaluating management’s assumptions and methodology 
supporting the fair values of intangibles and net assets 
acquired for each acquisition in the year; and 
assessing the terms of each acquisition to ensure 
components of compensation and remuneration had 
been correctly identified and that acquisition costs had 
been expensed.
In respect of the Virgo Group and Provisuale Participações 
Ltda acquisitions we involved our internal valuation specialists 
to assess the appropriateness of the nature and valuation of 
the intangible assets identified. This assessment included 
testing the assumptions used including discount rates, useful 
economic lives, growth rates and the expected rate of return 
from customer relationships.
THE RECOVERABILITY OF LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES
Risk
The Group holds a number of long-term receivable balances, 
the most significant being with China Medical Data Services, 
Robbins Gioia and the acquirers of the Corporate Training 
business disposed of in 2013. At 31 December 2014 the 
carrying value of these receivables was £30.1m (see Note 26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The recoverability 
of these balances is identified as a significant risk as it is 
dependent on the performance of the related businesses.
During the period an impairment charge of £14.5m 
was recognised in relation to the China Medical Data Services 
and Expo Vinis receivables (see Note 2 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements). 
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
The audit procedures we performed in assessing the carrying 
value and recoverability of long-term receivables included:
reviewing the underlying agreements and vouching 
movements in the receivables to relevant supporting 
documentation;
testing management’s calculation of the fair value of 
long-term receivables including assumptions such as 
discount rates applied; and
assessing future recoverability through: 
 – gaining an understanding of the developments in these 
businesses during the period;
 – reviewing and assessing current and likely future business 
performance from financial information submitted from 
the relevant third parties; and 
 – considering payments received in the period.
REVENUE RECOGNITION 
Risk
The risk of material misstatement in revenue recognition varies 
across the different activities and revenue streams of the Group. 
The Group’s revenue recognition accounting policies are 
disclosed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In respect of Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & 
Networking we identified the risk of revenue from one or more 
events being recognised in the wrong period, particularly for 
events held close to year end. 
In respect of both Academic Publishing and Business 
Intelligence we identified the risk that the deferral and release 
of subscription revenues did not appropriately match the 
underlying terms of the contract. 
We also identified the cut-off risk within Academic Publishing 
in relation to the significant volume of transactions leading up 
to the year end.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Based on the design and implementation of controls work 
we performed, and the process walkthroughs we completed, 
we designed substantive procedures to respond to each of 
the specific risks of material misstatement we identified. We 
performed operating effectiveness testing of controls and 
subsequently took controls reliance in respect of auditing 
the UK component. The substantive audit procedures 
we performed across the Group included:
obtaining evidence of invoices, payments, exhibitor contracts 
and evidence of event occurrence to determine whether 
deferred revenue was released at the appropriate time;
performing a trend analysis of revenue over the course of the 
year, plotting revenue against the calendar of events for the 
entities tested and verifying that these events had occurred 
to third party sources;
for a sample of transactions close to the year end, examining 
supporting documentation to determine that revenue 
recognition criteria had been met and the revenue had been 
appropriately recognised or deferred in the period; and
for a sample of subscription transactions, obtaining and 
reviewing the contracts to validate the revenue recognised 
and to assess that the revenue recognised was properly 
allocated across the term of the contract. 
Our report for the year ended 31 December 2013 included one 
other risk which is not included in our report this year which 
related to the adequacy of provisions for uncertain tax matters. 
In the previous period the Group negotiated and resolved 
a number of uncertain tax positions with the tax authorities 
in the territories to which these uncertain positions related. 
We therefore do not consider this to be a risk of material 
misstatement that is required to be included in our audit 
report for the period ended 31 December 2014.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 109
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  The description of risks above should be read in conjunction 
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on pages 87 and 88.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed 
in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a 
whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts 
or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not 
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, 
and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of 
our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £10m 
(2013: £9.7m), which is not greater than 5% (2013: 5%) of 
normalised pre-tax profit from continuing operations. Pre-tax 
profit from continuing operations has been normalised by 
removing the impact of impairment charges and specific 
restructuring and reorganisation costs. This is consistent 
with the methodology used in 2013 with the exception that 
normalised profit from continuing operations in 2013 was 
adjusted for all restructuring and reorganisation costs and 
acquisition related costs.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £200,000 
(2013: £190,000), as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters 
that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. 
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of 
the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group 
level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit 
scope primarily on the audit work at seven (2013: seven) 
locations. Six (2013: six) of these were subject to a full audit, 
whilst the remaining one (2013: one) was subject to specified 
audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based 
on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of 
the materiality of the Group’s operations at that location. These 
seven locations represent the principal business units within 
the Group’s four reportable segments and account for 76% 
(2013: 73%) of the Group’s revenue and 77% (2013: 76%) of 
the Group’s adjusted operating profit. They were also selected 
to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. 
Our audit work at the seven locations was executed at levels 
of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were 
lower than Group materiality and ranged from £4m to £6m.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the 
aggregated financial information of the remaining components 
not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of 
planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior 
Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the locations 
where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every 
two years and the most significant of them at least once a year. 
In the year ended 31 December 2014 the Senior Statutory 
Auditor or his designate visited five out of the six full scope audit 
locations. In years when we do not visit a significant component 
we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, 
discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of 
the findings from their work.
The scope of our work and the locations identified within 
the Group audit scope are similar to 2013 as these locations 
continue to represent the principal business units within 
the Group’s four reportable segments.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED  
BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and
the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT 
BY EXCEPTION
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
the Parent Company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
110 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report 
if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the 
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with 10 provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is:
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider 
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee 
which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm 
that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or 
misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS 
AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also 
comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK 
and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood 
and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our 
dedicated professional standards review team and independent 
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all 
the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
ANTHONY MORRIS FCA (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, UK
12 February 2015
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 111
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Notes
Adjusted  
results 
2014 
£m
Adjusting 
 items 
2014 
£m
Statutory 
results 
2014 
£m
Adjusted 
results
2013
1
£m
Adjusting 
items
2013
1
£m
Statutory 
results
2013
1
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 6 1,137.0 − 1,137.0 1,130.0 − 1,130.0
Net operating expenses 8 (802.9) (336.5) (1,139.4) (795.3) (188.7) (984.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 334.1 (336.5) (2.4) 334.7 (188.7) 146.0
Share of results of joint ventures 20 (0.1) (0.3) (0.4) 0.5 (0.1) 0.4
Loss on disposal of businesses 22 − (2.8) (2.8) − (3.4) (3.4)
Finance costs 12 (28.0) (1.2) (29.2) (29.8) 0.3 (29.5)
Investment income 13 3.6 − 3.6 1.9 − 1.9
Profit/(loss) before tax 309.6 (340.8) (31.2) 307.3 (191.9) 115.4
Tax (charge)/credit 14 (62.8) 43.0 (19.8) (65.9) 53.5 (12.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations 246.8 (297.8) (51.0) 241.4 (138.4) 103.0
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued 
operations 21 − (109.5)
Loss for the year (51.0) (6.5)
Attributable to:
– Equity holders of the parent (52.4) (6.5)
– Non-controlling interest 36 1.4 −
Earnings per share from 
continuing operations 
– Basic (p) 16 (8.6) 17.1
– Diluted (p) 16 (8.6)  17.1
Earnings per share from continuing  
and discontinued operations
– Basic (p) 16 (8.6) (1.1)
– Diluted (p) 16 (8.6) (1.1)
Adjusted earnings per share  
from continuing operations
– Basic (p) 16 40.3 40.1
– Diluted (p) 16 40.3  40.1 
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing 
and discontinued operations
– Basic (p) 16 40.3 40.5
– Diluted (p) 16 40.3  40.5 
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
www.informa.com
112 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Loss for the year (51.0) (6.4)
Share of results of joint ventures − (0.1)
Restated loss for the year (51.0) (6.5)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension schemes 39 (8.0) 8.3
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 31 1.7 (2.2)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (6.3) 6.1
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 33 (0.2) 0.5
Termination of interest rate swaps 33 (0.3) −
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 7.9 (25.0)
Cumulative foreign exchange losses on disposals
1
22 − 3.6
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 31 0.1 (0.1)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7.5 (21.0)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 1.2 (14.9)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (49.8) (21.4)
Attributable from continuing operations to:
– Equity holders of the parent (51.2) 88.1
– Non-controlling interest 36 1.4 −
Attributable from discontinued operations to:
– Equity holders of the parent − (109.5)
– Non-controlling interest 36 − −
1 
Cumulative foreign exchange losses on disposals was only previously presented in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity; this has been 
corrected above.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 113
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Share 
capital 
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non-
controlling
interest
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 0.6 2.1 (6.1) (1,216.6) 2,543.6 1,323.6 − 1,323.6
Share of results of joint ventures − − − − 0.1 0.1 − 0.1
Restated at 1 January 2013 0.6 2.1 (6.1) (1,216.6) 2,543.7 1,323.7 − 1,323.7
Loss for the year − − − − (6.5) (6.5) − (6.5)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges − − − 0.5 − 0.5 − 0.5
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations − − (25.0) − − (25.0) − (25.0)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit 
pension schemes (Note 39) − − − − 8.3 8.3 − 8.3
Cumulative foreign exchange losses 
on disposals (Note 22) − − 3.6 − − 3.6 − 3.6
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income (Note 31) − − − (0.1) (2.2) (2.3) − (2.3)
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year − − (21.4) 0.4 (0.4) (21.4) − (21.4)
Dividends to shareholders (Note 15) − − − − (114.0) (114.0) − (114.0)
Share award expense (Note 11) − − − 2.2 − 2.2 − 2.2
Own shares purchased − − − (0.4) − (0.4) − (0.4)
Purchase of non-controlling interest − − − − − − 1.0 1.0
Transfer of vested LTIPs − − − (4.0) 4.0 − − −
Restated at 1 January 2014 0.6 2.1 (27.5) (1,218.4) 2,433.3 1,190.1 1.0 1,191.1
Loss for the year − − − − (52.4) (52.4) 1.4 (51.0)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges − − − (0.2) − (0.2) − (0.2)
Termination of interest rate swaps − − − (0.3) − (0.3) − (0.3)
Exchange difference on translation 
of foreign operations − − 7.9 − − 7.9 − 7.9
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension 
schemes (Note 39) − − − − (8.0) (8.0) − (8.0)
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income (Note 31) − − − 0.1 1.7 1.8 − 1.8
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year − − 7.9 (0.4) (58.7) (51.2) 1.4 (49.8)
Dividends to shareholders (Note 15) − − − − (114.0) (114.0) (0.9) (114.9)
Shares issued − 204.0 − − − 204.0 − 204.0
Inversion accounting − − − 1,756.0 (1,756.0) − − −
Issue of shares under scheme 
of arrangement 2,189.3 (2.1) − (2,189.9) 2.7 − − −
Capital reduction (2,189.3) − − − 2,189.3 − − −
Share award expense (Note 11) − − − 1.7 − 1.7 − 1.7
Own shares purchased − − − (0.1) − (0.1) − (0.1)
Put option on acquisition of  
non-controlling interest − − − (0.3) − (0.3) − (0.3)
Transfer of vested LTIPs − − − (2.1) 2.1 − − −
At 31 December 2014 0.6 204.0 (19.6) (1,653.5) 2,698.7 1,230.2 1.5 1,231.7
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
www.informa.com
114 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
2012
1
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 17 1,748.9 1,597.9 1,726.5
Other intangible assets 18 780.8 779.0 874.7
Investments in joint ventures 20 0.2 0.6 0.5
Property and equipment 23 17.5 16.5 19.3
Other receivables 26 30.9 38.1 20.4
Derivative financial instruments 33(b) − 0.5 −
2,578.3 2,432.6 2,641.4
Current assets
Inventory 25 44.5 42.2 38.2
Trade and other receivables 26 218.9 203.0 227.0
Current tax asset 4.2 2.4 3.1
Cash at bank and in hand 27 38.6 32.0 23.9
306.2 279.6 292.2
Total assets 2,884.5 2,712.2 2,933.6
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 34 0.6 0.6 0.6
Share premium account 34 204.0 2.1 2.1
Translation reserve (19.6) (27.5) (6.1)
Reserve for shares to be issued 35 3.2 3.6 5.9
Merger reserve 35 496.4 496.4 496.4
Other reserve 35 (2,152.8) (1,718.6) (1,718.6)
Employee Share Option Plan Trust shares 35 (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
Hedging reserve 35 − 0.4 −
Retained earnings 2,698.7 2,433.3 2,543.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,230.2 1,190.1 1,323.7
Non-controlling interest 36 1.5 1.0 −
Total equity 1,231.7 1,191.1 1,323.7
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 841.1 814.1 825.7
Deferred tax liabilities 31 125.6 134.5 160.9
Retirement benefit obligation 39 10.1 5.4 17.5
Provisions 30 11.8 7.1 8.7
Trade and other payables 28 5.9 6.5 3.6
994.5 967.6 1,016.4
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 73.7 0.5 0.6
Current tax liabilities 27.3 45.0 78.0
Provisions 30 16.4 12.7 5.1
Trade and other payables 28 198.0 179.4 203.3
Deferred income 29 342.9 315.9 306.5
658.3 553.5 593.5
Total liabilities 1,652.8 1,521.1 1,609.9
Total equity and liabilities 2,884.5 2,712.2 2,933.6
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE GARETH WRIGHT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 115
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Notes
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Operating activities
Cash generated by operations 38 317.5 330.1
Income taxes paid (44.3) (71.4)
Interest paid (31.4) (31.2)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 241.8 227.5
Investing activities
Investment income 0.4 1.1
Dividends received from joint ventures − 0.2
Purchases of property and equipment 23 (4.8) (5.9)
Proceeds on disposal of property and equipment 0.1 0.4
Purchase of other intangible assets (14.0) (49.0)
Proceeds on disposal of other intangible assets 0.5 −
Purchase of intangible software assets 18 (8.3) (8.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 19 (357.4) (87.3)
Product development costs 18 (1.7) (2.7)
Cash (outflow)/inflow on disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 22 (1.7) 47.5
Net cash outflow from investing activities (386.9) (104.0)
Financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 15 (114.0) (114.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (0.9) −
Drawdown/(repayments) of borrowings 38 56.9 (0.6)
Cash inflow/(outflow) from the issue of share capital 204.1 (0.4)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 146.1 (115.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.0 8.5
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.8 (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 31.5 23.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 27 35.3 31.5
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
www.informa.com
116 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2014 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and 
its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures (together referred to as the “Group”).
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc (“Old Informa”), the former holding company of the Group, 
and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all 
the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa 
PLC (the “Company”) in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 
share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014 and is headquartered in the United Kingdom. 
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover. The introduction of a new Parent Company constitutes a Group 
reconstruction and has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The 
comparative equity structure has been restated to reflect the new equity structure of the Company. Therefore, although the Group 
reconstruction did not become effective until 30 May 2014, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are presented 
as if the Company had always been part of the Group. Accordingly, the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 
are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2013 are also 
presented on this basis. Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganisation. 
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report section of the Directors’ Report 
on page 73.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Further detail is contained in 
the Governance section on page 76.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (“GBP”), the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa PLC. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (“IFRSS”)
Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year:
IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities
Amendment to IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements
Amendment to IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Amendment to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Amendment to IAS 36: Impairment of Assets – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
Amendment to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation 
of Hedge Accounting
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) Interpretation 21 Levies
Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 cycle (issued December 2013)
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Group’s accounting policies, except for 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and Standard Interpretations Committee (“SIC”) 13. 
Under IFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when the 
decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. IFRS 11 addresses only two 
forms of joint arrangements (joint operations and joint ventures) and removes the option to account for joint ventures using 
proportionate consolidation. The Group has changed its accounting for joint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity 
accounting. This change in policy has required a restatement of the comparative periods – see Note 5.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 117
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
1. GENERAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (“IFRSS”) (CONTINUED)
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied 
in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect:
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments – not endorsed by the EU
IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts − not endorsed by the EU
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers − not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Applying the Consolidation Exception − not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its  
Associate or Joint Venture − not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations – not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative – not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation – not endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements – not endorsed by the EU
Improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014 cycle (issued September 2014) – not endorsed by the EU
Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 cycle (issued December 2013) – endorsed by the EU
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the financial statements of the Group, except for the following:
IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the 
accounting for financial assets and reduces complexity. IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is 
measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39. This standard is effective for accounting 
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. We will evaluate the impact on the Group in 2015.
IFRS 15 is a new standard, based on a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue recognition standards. 
The standard’s requirements will also apply to the recognition and measurement of gains and losses on the sale of certain 
non-financial assets that are not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities (e.g., sales of property, plant and equipment or 
intangibles). This standard is currently effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017 . We will evaluate 
the impact on the Group in 2015.
www.informa.com
118 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply 
with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
ADJUSTED RESULTS
Management believes that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share (Note 16) provide additional useful information on 
underlying trends to shareholders. These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation 
arrangements for employees. The term “adjusted” is not a defined term under IFRSs and may not therefore be comparable with 
similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS 
measurements of profit.
The following charges/(credits) are presented as adjusting items:
Continuing operations Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 20.7 14.2
Acquisition and integration costs 8 4.7 5.8
Intangible asset amortisation 18 93.9 105.0
Impairment – Goodwill and other intangible assets 17/18 202.5 40.5
Impairment – Loan receivable 26 14.5 8.3
Impairment – Intangible software assets 18 − 17.1
Impairment – Other 18 2.0 0.3
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 8 (1.8) (2.5)
Loss on disposal of businesses 22 2.8 3.4
Interest on overdue tax 12 − (0.3)
Excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility 12 1.2 −
Share of results of joint ventures 0.3 0.1
340.8 191.9
Tax related to adjusting items 14 (31.4) (39.8)
Tax credit in respect of prior year items 14 (11.6) (13.7)
297.8 138.4
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 119
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
The principal adjustments made are in respect of:
restructuring and reorganisation costs – the costs incurred by the Group in non-recurring business restructuring and changing 
the operating model to align with the Group’s revised strategy;
acquisition and integration costs – the costs incurred by the Group in acquiring and integrating share and asset acquisitions;
intangible asset amortisation – the Group continues to amortise other intangible assets. The amortisation charge in respect 
of intangible software assets and product development is included in the adjusted results. The amortisation charge in respect 
of all remaining other intangible assets is excluded from the adjusted results as management does not see these charges as 
integral to underlying trading;
impairment – the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists. The material 
impairment charges are individually disclosed. The impairment charge for those other separately identified intangible assets 
has been linked with subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration of those acquisitions;
loss on disposal of businesses – the loss on disposal includes the fair value of consideration less the net assets/(liabilities) 
disposed, non-controlling interest and costs directly attributable with the disposal;
excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility – capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but 
where revolving credit facilities have been terminated early, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed. This accelerated 
expense is not viewed as being part of the underlying results and is thus excluded from the adjusted results; and
share of results of joint ventures – the share of results includes intangible asset amortisation and impairment charge related to 
joint ventures, which is excluded from adjusted results in line with the presentation of the Group’s intangible asset amortisation 
and treatment of impairment.
The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above and in 2014 it also includes the effect of the reduction in the 
UK corporation tax rate applicable for the purposes of calculating deferred tax to 20%.
The tax credit in respect of prior year items is mainly attributable to adjustments relating to historic disposals.
SIGNIFICANT EXCHANGE RATES
The following significant exchange rates versus GBP were applied during the year:
Average rate Closing rate
2014 2013 2014 2013
USD 1.6485 1.5635 1.5596 1.6510
EUR 1.2422 1.1776 1.2833 1.1997
www.informa.com
120 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets 
and financial instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Change in accounting policy
IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13 and is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2014. 
Under IFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when 
the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. IFRS 11 addresses only 
two forms of joint arrangements (joint operations and joint ventures) and removes the option to account for joint ventures using 
proportionate consolidation. The Group has changed its accounting for joint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity 
accounting. This change in policy has required a restatement of the comparative periods – see Note 5.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries. Control is achieved 
where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, has the rights to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The results of subsidiaries 
acquired or sold are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their 
accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity and 
consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity 
since that date.
Joint ventures
Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party. 
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in the joint 
venture is initially measured at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share 
of net assets of the joint ventures since the acquisition date. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the entity. The Statement of Comprehensive Income includes the Group’s share of any other comprehensive income 
recognised by the joint venture.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding 
of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. 
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to 
recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 121
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
REVENUE
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and 
services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and provisions for returns 
and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the subscription.
Attendee, sponsorship and exhibitor income is deferred and recognised when the event is held.
Copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the product.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
INTEREST INCOME
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
The methodology for calculating effective interest rate is disclosed in the effective interest method policy note.
DIVIDEND INCOME
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition and integration costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items 
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest 
in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in 
accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration 
is classified as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration 
is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration 
over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition. It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed 
for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGUs”), as defined by 
the Board for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually 
or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired. Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash 
flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the CGUs compared with the carrying value of that goodwill. Management 
estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular CGUs. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less 
than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal, the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
www.informa.com
122 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Group’s valuation 
methodologies (Note 18). These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows:
Book lists 20 years
Journal titles 20 years
Database content and intellectual property 3–20 years
Exhibitions and conferences 3–20 years
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets. Capitalised internal-use software costs 
include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-
related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project. Capitalisation of 
these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose. 
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which range from 3–10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives (excluding goodwill).
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided 
to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful 
lives of the assets. The rates of depreciation are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease
Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3–15 years
Freehold land is not depreciated
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGUs to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant 
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value 
less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the 
asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 123
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
INVENTORY
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred 
in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less 
marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
During the year the amount of inventory recognised as an expense, including pre-publication amortisation, was £36.6m 
(2013: £34.4m).
FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates 
of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the 
rates ruling at that date. These translation differences are disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the 
date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are not retranslated. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in 
the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in 
respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity. For such non-monetary items, any exchange component 
of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange. 
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that month’s closing rate and the equivalent 
for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate 
are taken directly to the translation reserve. In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign 
subsidiaries’ results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Group’s hedging reserve. Such 
translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are 
disposed of. The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments 
under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate.
LEASING
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and 
depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets. The corresponding 
liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation. Finance charges 
are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease 
and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
www.informa.com
124 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 TAXATION
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The provision 
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for 
using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and 
deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from 
goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties. A deferred tax liability 
is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax 
purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
PENSION COSTS
Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from the individual companies. The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions 
payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees. The cost of providing these benefits is determined using 
the Projected Unit Credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date. Past service cost is recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to 
the opening net defined benefit liability or asset. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, 
outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position represents the actual deficit 
or surplus in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 125
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is 
measured at the date of grant. The fair value of the Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model 
of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques. The valuation takes into account factors such 
as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. To assign a fair value to share awards granted under 
the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the 
Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing 
for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest. The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the 
cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Financial assets are recognised in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-
sale investments. The classification is determined by management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired.
EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset/liability and of allocating 
interest income/expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts/payments (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial asset/liability, or, where appropriate, 
a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible (with a maturity of three months or less) to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date. Financial assets are impaired where there 
is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, 
the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below 
its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include:
significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
www.informa.com
126 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually 
are≈subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables 
could include the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio 
past≈the average credit period of 30 days (2013: 30 days), and observable changes in national or local economic conditions that 
correlate with increased default risk on receivables. A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and 
default or delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception 
of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account. When a trade receivable is 
considered uncollectable, it is written off against the provision account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written 
off are credited against the provision account. Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or 
have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. If the Group neither 
transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the 
Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial 
asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY INSTRUMENTS ISSUED BY THE GROUP
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
BANK BORROWINGS
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the 
Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
FINANCE COSTS
Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
rate method.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged or cancelled, or they expire.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 127
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross-currency 
swaps. The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured 
to their fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative 
is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives 
as either:
hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments (fair value hedges);
hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction 
(cash flow hedge); or
hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well 
as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the 
hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes 
in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded 
in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to 
the hedged risk. The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the 
hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash 
flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results 
in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in 
the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item. However, when the forecast transaction 
that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously 
accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial 
asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in the foreign currency translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated Income Statement. Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge 
accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in 
equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain 
or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
www.informa.com
128 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 
12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets 
or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 33.
ESOP TRUST SHARES
Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds represent the cost of the Company’s ordinary shares acquired 
by the Employee Share Option Plan (“ESOP”) Trusts in connection with certain of the Group’s employee share schemes.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group 
will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been 
communicated to the affected parties.
4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors are required to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that 
are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS
In addition to the judgement taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors 
have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, 
judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given 
to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Identification of CGUs in the impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets
For the purpose of impairment tests, the goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to CGUs that are expected to benefit 
from these and which represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors goodwill and other intangible 
assets. With changes in the business structure enacted during the year, management judgement is required in identifying 
the CGUs.
Recoverability of long-term receivables
There are a number of external loans which are repayable over the next two to ten years. The recoverability of the capital and 
interest payments is dependent on the financial success of the external parties over the coming years. In making its judgement, 
management will assess for each significant loan receivable whether a credit risk provision is required.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 129
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
(CONTINUED)
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised. 
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets
In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, management are 
required to make estimates when utilising the Group’s valuation methodologies. These methodologies include the use of 
discounted cash flows and revenue forecasts. For significant acquisitions management have considered the advice of third 
party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 20 years.
Valuation of share-based payments
In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of 
non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. The expected volatility is determined by calculating 
the historical volatility of the Company’s share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant. 
The list of inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 11.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value
Management have made a number of assumptions with regard to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair 
value at year end. Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied. Note 33 details the methods used to 
value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s borrowing requirements and the derivative financial 
instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the 
instrument. Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, 
where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible 
assets. The determination of whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Note 17 details the assumptions 
that have been applied.
Pension assumptions
There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results 
of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end. The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount 
rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions. Note 38 details the assumptions which have 
been adopted.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely 
outcome (Note 19). However, any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
www.informa.com
130 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 5. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY
IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13 and is effective from 1 January 2014. Under IFRS 11 joint control is 
defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when the decisions about the relevant 
activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. IFRS 11 addresses only two forms of joint arrangements 
(joint operations and joint ventures) and removes the option to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation. The 
Group has changed its accounting for joint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity accounting. This change in policy 
has required a restatement of the comparative periods.
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Income Statement is summarised as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2013
Previously 
reported
£m
Adjustments
£m
Restated
£m
Revenue 1,132.4 (2.4) 1,130.0
Net operating expenses (985.7) 1.7 (984.0)
Operating profit 146.7 (0.7) 146.0
Share of results of joint ventures − 0.4 0.4
Profit before tax 115.7 (0.3) 115.4
Tax charge (12.6) 0.2 (12.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 103.1 (0.1) 103.0
Loss for the year (6.4) (0.1) (6.5)
Attributable to:
– Equity holders of the parent (6.4) (0.1) (6.5)
The prior year adjustments on the previously reported Consolidated Income Statement in 2013 had no impact on earnings 
per share.
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
is summarised as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2013
Previously 
reported
£m
Adjustments
£m
Restated
£m
Loss for the year (6.4) (0.1) (6.5)
Total comprehensive expense for the year
1
(24.9) (0.1) (25.0)
Attributable from continuing operations to:
– Equity holders of the parent
1
84.6 (0.1) 84.5
1 
These numbers do not reflect the reclassification of cumulative foreign exchange losses on disposals of £3.6m.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 131
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
5. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY (CONTINUED)
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is summarised 
as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012
Previously 
reported
£m
Adjustments
£m
Restated
£m
Previously 
reported
£m
Adjustments
£m
Restated
£m
Non-current assets
Other intangible assets 780.3 (1.3) 779.0 874.7 − 874.7
Investments in joint ventures − 0.6 0.6 − 0.5 0.5
Other receivables 37.6 0.5 38.1 20.4 − 20.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 203.0 − 203.0 228.0 (1.0) 227.0
Current tax asset 2.6 (0.2) 2.4 3.1 − 3.1
Cash at hand and in bank 32.4 (0.4) 32.0 23.9 − 23.9
Capital and reserves
Retained earnings 2,433.3 − 2,433.3 2,543.6 0.1 2,543.7
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 7.0 (0.5) 6.5 3.6 − 3.6
Current liabilities
Current tax liabilities 45.1 (0.1) 45.0 78.0 − 78.0
Trade and other payables 179.5 (0.1) 179.4 202.3 1.0 203.3
Deferred income 316.0 (0.1) 315.9 308.1 (1.6) 306.5
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Cash Flow Statement is summarised as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2013
Previously 
reported
£m
Adjustments
£m
Restated
£m
Profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations 2.5 (0.3) 2.2
Amortisation of other intangible assets 139.3 (0.1) 139.2
Share of results of joint ventures − (0.4) (0.4)
Decrease in receivables 12.6 (1.5) 11.1
Increase in payables (21.3) 0.1 (21.2)
Cash generated by operations 332.3 (2.2) 330.1
Dividends received from joint ventures − 0.2 0.2
Purchase of other intangible assets (50.4) 1.4 (49.0)
www.informa.com
132 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 6. REVENUE
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Subscriptions 464.8 477.4
Attendees 167.6 173.0
Copy sales 215.4 221.8
Exhibitors 194.4 165.6
Sponsorship 73.0 66.9
Advertising 21.8 25.3
Total revenue from continuing operations 1,137.0 1,130.0
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Board of Directors in allocating 
resources and making strategic decisions. We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
Unless otherwise indicated the segment information reported on the following pages does not include any amounts for 
discontinued operations, which are described in more detail in Note 21.
As announced on 10 July 2014 and on the back of a comprehensive strategic review earlier in the year, the Group has been 
repositioned to deliver growth and scale in each of its markets.
Following this assessment, a new operating model has been implemented for the Group. It has been designed to reduce the 
complexity of existing business structures and reporting lines.
From 1 January 2015, the Group operating model will be structured and reported as four trading Divisions. Since the Executive 
Directors are already reviewing the financial information based on the four trading Divisions, the segmental disclosures are being 
presented using the new structure, with comparatives restated. Therefore the Group’s four identified reporting segments under 
IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows:
Academic Publishing
The Academic Publishing Division, operating under the Taylor & Francis Group banner, comprises of the imprints of Taylor & 
Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent OA. The Division provides books and journals, both in print and 
electronic formats, primarily for academic and research users in the subject areas of behavioural and social sciences, humanities, 
science, technology and medicine.
Business Intelligence
The Business Intelligence Division provides highly specialised actionable intelligence to service the information needs of 
corporations and governments globally. The products consist of rich data sets and valuable insight, across the Pharamaceuticals 
& Healthcare, Finance, Maritime & Law, Technology/Media/Telecoms and Agriculture/Food sectors.
Global Exhibitions
The Global Exhibitions Division runs business-to-business Exhibitions and trade shows, as well as a number of Consumer 
and fan events globally.
Knowledge & Networking
The Knowledge & Networking Division offers thousands of conferences and training courses globally as well as building 
communities and providing the attendees with the opportunity to meet face to face.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 133
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
SEGMENT REVENUE AND RESULTS
31 December 2014
Academic 
Publishing
£m
Business 
Intelligence
£m
Global 
Exhibitions
£m
Knowledge & 
Networking
£m
Total
£m
Revenue (Note 6) 408.9 281.7 200.2 246.2 1,137.0
Adjusted operating profit 150.0 75.2 67.4 41.5 334.1
Restructuring and reorganisation costs (Note 9) (2.5) (10.5) (3.0) (4.7) (20.7)
Acquisition and integration costs (Note 2) (1.0) − (3.7) − (4.7)
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 
(Note 2) − 1.6 (1.6) 1.8 1.8
Intangible asset amortisation
1
(40.2) (16.2) (20.9) (16.6) (93.9)
Impairment (Note 2) − (205.3) (13.7) − (219.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 106.3 (155.2) 24.5 22.0 (2.4)
Share of results of joint ventures (0.4)
Loss on disposal of businesses (Note 22) (2.8)
Finance costs (Note 12) (29.2)
Investment income (Note 13) 3.6
Loss before tax from continuing operations (31.2)
1 
Excludes software and product development amortisation. 
31 December 2013 − restated 
Academic 
Publishing
£m
Business 
Intelligence
£m
Global 
Exhibitions
£m
Knowledge & 
Networking
£m
Total
1
£m
Revenue (Note 6) 407.8 305.9 160.2 256.1 1,130.0
Adjusted operating profit 150.9 86.8 50.0 47.0 334.7
Restructuring and reorganisation costs (Note 9) (1.3) (9.0) (0.6) (3.3) (14.2)
Acquisition and integration costs (Note 2) (0.1) (0.8) (4.7) (0.2) (5.8)
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 
(Note 2) − 2.9 0.3 (0.7) 2.5
Intangible asset amortisation
2
(41.4) (25.4) (18.7) (19.5) (105.0)
Impairment (Note 2) (6.2) (4.6) (2.7) (52.7) (66.2)
Operating profit/(loss) 101.9 49.9 23.6 (29.4) 146.0
Share of results of joint ventures 0.4
Loss on disposal of businesses (Note 22) (3.4)
Finance costs (Note 12) (29.5)
Investment income (Note 13) 1.9
Profit before tax from continuing operations 115.4
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
2 
Excludes software and product development amortisation. 
www.informa.com
134 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Adjusted 
operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation 
and assessment of segment performance. Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of 
activity is driven by the central Treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
SEGMENT ASSETS – RESTATED
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Academic Publishing 1,025.3 1,003.4
Business Intelligence 791.6 985.9
Global Exhibitions 657.0 286.4
Knowledge & Networking 360.2 378.5
Total segment assets 2,834.1 2,654.2
Unallocated assets 50.4 58.0
Total assets 2,884.5 2,712.2
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the 
tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment. All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for 
corporate balances, including some intangible software assets, balances receivable from businesses sold and taxation (current 
and deferred). Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual 
reportable segment.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 135
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
SEGMENT ASSETS – RESTATED (CONTINUED)
The Group’s revenues from its major products and services (2013 restated for the new operating structure) were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Academic Publishing
Subscriptions 218.6 218.8
Copy sales 190.3 189.0
Total Academic Publishing 408.9 407.8
Business Intelligence
Subscriptions 246.2 258.6
Copy sales 25.1 32.8
Advertising 10.4 14.5
Total Business Intelligence 281.7 305.9
Global Exhibitions
Attendees 20.1 16.4
Exhibitors 157.5 129.6
Sponsorship 16.2 9.0
Advertising 6.4 5.2
Total Global Exhibitions 200.2 160.2
Knowledge & Networking
Attendees 147.5 156.6
Exhibitors 36.9 36.0
Sponsorship 56.8 57.9
Advertising 5.0 5.6
Total Knowledge & Networking 246.2 256.1
Total revenue from continuing operations 1,137.0 1,130.0
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS
The Group’s revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographic location are detailed below: 
Revenue from continuing operations Segment assets
Geographic information
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
United Kingdom 149.0 158.3 1,130.2 1,281.3
North America 416.4 386.8 1,334.6 965.6
Continental Europe 235.1 253.1 77.3 106.4
Rest of World 336.5 331.8 342.4 358.9
1,137.0 1,130.0 2,884.5 2,712.2
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Group’s revenue.
www.informa.com
136 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 8. NET OPERATING EXPENSES 
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Notes
Adjusted
results
2014
£m
Adjusting
items
2014
£m
Statutory
results
2014
£m
Adjusted
results
2013
1
£m
Adjusting
items
2013
1
£m
Statutory
results
2013
1
£m
Cost of sales 367.2 − 367.2 363.1 − 363.1
Staff costs (excluding redundancy costs) 10 319.9 − 319.9 322.6 − 322.6
Amortisation of other intangible assets 12.1 93.9 106.0 15.8 105.0 120.8
Depreciation 6.1 − 6.1 6.4 − 6.4
Impairment 2 − 219.0 219.0 − 66.2 66.2
Net foreign exchange loss 0.8 − 0.8 0.4 − 0.4
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services 
(see below) 1.0 − 1.0 1.0 − 1.0
Operating lease expenses
– Land and buildings 37 17.6 − 17.6 19.4 − 19.4
– Other 37 1.0 − 1.0 1.0 − 1.0
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 − 20.7 20.7 − 14.2 14.2
Acquisition and integration costs 2 − 4.7 4.7 − 5.8 5.8
Subsequent re-measurement 
of contingent consideration 2 − (1.8) (1.8) − (2.5) (2.5)
Other operating expenses 77.2 − 77.2 65.6 − 65.6
Total net operating expenses from 
continuing operations 802.9 336.5 1,139.4 795.3 188.7 984.0
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP and its associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings 
is provided below:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 0.7 0.6
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group:
 Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.3 0.4
Total audit fees 1.0 1.0
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for non-audit services comprises:
 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
 Other services 0.4 0.4
Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.5
There were no future services for the auditor contracted at the reporting date (2013: £nil).
The fees payable for other services of £0.4m relate to corporate finance services in relation to the listing of the new UK-domiciled 
ultimate Parent Company. The other services in 2013 relate to the carve-out work of the Corporate Training businesses, of which 
£0.3m of this fee was reimbursed from the acquirer.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Governance section on pages 86 to 89 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 137
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
9. RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANISATION COSTS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Redundancy costs 14.2 10.7
Reorganisation costs 2.1 2.4
Re-domicile costs 2.9 0.6
Vacant property provisions 1.5 0.5
20.7 14.2
10. STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by segment, 
was as follows:
Number of employees
2014 2013
1
Academic Publishing 1,927 1,862
Business Intelligence 2,146 2,203
Global Exhibitions 782 770
Knowledge & Networking 1,797 1,758
6,652 6,593
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 282.5 283.9
Social security costs 27.1 27.8
Pension costs charged to operating profit (Note 39) 8.6 8.7
Share-based payment (Note 11) 1.7 2.2
Staff costs (excluding redundancy costs) 319.9 322.6
Redundancy costs (Note 9) 14.2 10.7
334.1 333.3
The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of 
the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Note 40). Further information about the remuneration of individual 
Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 99 to 102.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.7 4.5
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.5
Share incentive gains and payments − 0.6
3.0 5.6
www.informa.com
138 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 11. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group Long-Term Incentive Plans (“LTIPs”) provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Group’s 
shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is generally three years. The LTIPs expire if they remain unexercised after the 
exercise period has lapsed. Furthermore, LTIPs are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the LTIPs vest, unless 
they meet certain eligibility criteria. The LTIPs are equity-settled.
The Group recognised total expenses of £1.7m (2013: £2.2m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the 
year ended 31 December 2014.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
The movement during the year is as follows:
2014
Shares
2013
Shares
Opening balance 2,540,718 3,852,289
LTIPs exercised in the year − (630,842)
LTIPs lapsed in the year (1,370,006) (2,157,812)
LTIPs granted in the year 782,437 1,477,083
Closing balance 1,953,149 2,540,718
Date of grant
Estimated
fair value
1
Share
price
Exercise
price
Expected
volatility
Expected
life
2
(years)
Risk
free rate
Dividend
yield
9 March 2011 £2.52
3
£4.26 n/a 52.0% 3.0 1.8% 2.6%
£2.57
3
6 March 2012 £1.88
3
£4.18 n/a 32.0% 3.0 0.5% 3.8%
£2.30
3
7 March 2013 £2.77
3
£5.13 n/a 27.0% 3.0 0.3% 4.2%
£2.82
3
8 September 2014 £1.76
4
£5.18 n/a 20.0% 2.3 0.9% 3.7%
£2.15
5
£4.65
6
£4.65
7
1 
Valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation method of valuation.
2 
From 1 January of year in which grant made.
3 
50% split of total awards granted.
4 
75% split of total awards granted.
5 
25% split of total awards granted.
6 
66.7% of total awards granted.
7 
33.3% of total awards granted. 
In order to satisfy the share awards granted under LTIPs, the share capital would be increased by up to 1,215,877 shares. The 
Company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy 
the shares as needed on the open market.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over one, two and three years 
back from the date of grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 139
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
12. FINANCE COSTS
Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 27.8 29.2
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 39 0.2 0.6
Total interest expense 28.0 29.8
Interest on overdue tax 2 − (0.3)
Excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility 2 1.2 −
29.2 29.5
13. INVESTMENT INCOME
Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m
Loans and receivables:
 Interest income on bank deposits 0.5 0.6
 Interest income on non-current receivables 26 3.1 1.3
3.6 1.9
14. TAXATION
The tax charge comprises:
Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current tax:
 Current year 33.4 50.8
 Tax credit presented as adjusting item (8.2) (13.7)
Deferred tax:
 Current year 31 (2.4) (19.4)
 Tax credit presented as adjusting item 31 (3.4) −
 Credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 31 0.4 (5.3)
Total tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 19.8 12.4
www.informa.com
140 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The tax shown as an adjusting item within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following:
Continuing operations Notes
Gross
2014
£m
Tax
2014
£m
Gross
2013
£m
Tax
2013
£m
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 (20.7) 4.1 (14.2) 3.7
Acquisition and integration costs 2 (4.7) 1.4 (5.8) −
Amortisation of other intangible assets (93.9) 25.6 (105.0) 26.9
Impairment 2 (219.0) − (66.2) 4.0
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent 
consideration 2 1.8 0.4 2.5 −
Loss on disposal of businesses 22 (2.8) − (3.4) −
Interest on overdue tax 12 − − 0.3 (0.1)
Excess interest on early repayment of 
revolving credit facility 12 (1.2) 0.3 − −
Share of results of joint ventures (0.3) − (0.1) −
Deferred tax (charge)/credit arising from UK 
corporation tax rate change 31 − (0.4) − 5.3
Tax provision release (net of associated 
deferred tax charge) 2 − 11.6 − 13.7
(340.8) 43.0 (191.9) 53.5
The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation is calculated on each 
jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax charge/(credit) for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2014
£m %
2013
£m %
Profit before tax (31.2) 115.7
Tax (credit)/charge at effective UK statutory rate of 21.5% 
(2013: 23.25%) (6.7) 21.5 26.8 23.2
Permanent differences 34.5 (110.6) 3.0 2.6
Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not 
been recognised 3.2 (10.3) 1.6 1.4
Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax 
rate change 0.4 (1.3) (5.3) (4.6)
Tax provision release (net of associated deferred 
tax charge) (11.6) 37.2 (13.7) (11.9)
Tax charge and effective rate for the year 19.8 (63.5) 12.4 10.7
In addition to the income tax charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax credit of £1.8m (2013: charge of £2.3m) 
has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 141
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
15. DIVIDENDS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 12.5p per share – 75.4
 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.4p per share – 38.6
 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 12.5p per share 75.4 –
 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.4p per share 38.6 –
114.0 114.0
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 12.9p per share  
(2013: 12.5p per share) 83.7 75.5
As at 31 December 2014 £0.1m (2013: £0.1m) of dividends are still to be paid.
As at 31 December 2014 holders of 737 ,272 (2013: 737 ,272) ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each have waived their rights 
to receive dividends.
Following the re-domicile back to the UK this year, the Dividend Access Plan was unwound on 28 July 2014.
16. EARNINGS PER SHARE
BASIC
The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of £52.4m 
(2013 restated: £6.5m loss). This loss on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue (less those non-vested shares held by employee share ownership trusts) which is 608,258,772 (2013: 602,421,793).
DILUTED
The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted 
average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been 
exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 608,309,328 
(2013: 602,687 ,758).
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of diluted potential ordinary shares:
2014
1
2013
1
Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 608,258,772 602,421,793
Effect of dilutive share options 50,556 265,965
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 608,309,328 602,687,758
1 
For 2014 and 2013 the effect of dilutive share options were anti-dilutive for the purpose of the dilutive earnings per share and have not been used. 
www.informa.com
142 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
The basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share calculations have been made to allow shareholders to gain a further 
understanding of the trading performance of the Group. They are based on the basic and diluted earnings per share 
calculations. Profits are based on operations attributable to equity shareholders and are adjusted for items that are not 
perceived by management to be part of the underlying trends in the business and the tax effect of those adjusting items.
From continuing operations:
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (51.0) 103.0
Non-controlling interest (1.4) −
Adjusting items net of attributable taxation (Note 2) 297.8 138.4
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 245.4 241.4
Earnings per share from continuing operations:
– Adjusted basic (p) 40.3 40.1
– Adjusted diluted (p) 40.3 40.1
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
From continuing and discontinued operations:
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Loss for the year (51.0) (6.5)
Non-controlling interest (1.4) −
Adjusting items net of attributable taxation (Note 2) 297.8 250.3
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 245.4 243.8
Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations:
– Adjusted basic (p) 40.3 40.5
– Adjusted diluted (p) 40.3 40.5
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 143
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
17. GOODWILL
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 1,827.4
Additions in the year 57.9
Disposals
1
 (Note 22) (196.3)
Exchange differences (22.8)
At 1 January 2014 1,666.2
Additions in the year 313.0
Exchange differences 27.1
At 31 December 2014 2,006.3
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2013 (100.9)
Impairment losses for the year (Note 2) (40.5)
Disposals
1
 (Note 22) 77.2
Exchange differences (4.1)
At 1 January 2014 (68.3)
Impairment losses for the year (Note 2) (193.4)
Exchange differences 4.3
At 31 December 2014 (257.4)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 1,748.9
At 31 December 2013 1,597.9
1 
Included in disposals for 2013 are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. In July 2014 the Group announced a reorganisation of its trading Divisions, whereby the Group is now 
organised into four trading Divisions (Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & 
Networking). Each of the Divisions has its own Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer. This reorganisation of the reporting 
structure has changed the composition of the CGUs to which goodwill is allocated. Discussions have been held with the Managing 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of each operating segment, as determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, 
to assess the new CGUs. The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The number of CGUs has increased to 21 (2013: 12). For reporting purposes, the CGUs have been aggregated into the reportable 
segments. The CGUs are individually assessed for impairment each year.
www.informa.com
144 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major groups of CGUs is set out below:
2014
£m
Restated
2013
£m
Academic Publishing 440.6 423.3
Business Intelligence 584.7 760.3
Global Exhibitions 442.1 135.4
Knowledge & Networking 281.5 278.9
1,748.9 1,597.9
The movements in carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, impairment, foreign exchange movements and 
other internal reclassifications.
The Group assesses the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets annually at year end, and whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the current year, the impairment review was conducted 
based on the new structure. The 2013 year end impairment review was carried out under the old structure.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, which are based on the cash flow 
projections for each CGU. The key assumptions are those regarding the revenue and operating margin growth rates. 
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to latest budgets and forecasts for the next five years approved by 
management, after which a long-term perpetuity growth rate is applied. The most recent financial budgets approved by the Board 
of Directors have been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets. The estimates of 
future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for management’s estimates of future performance. As disclosed 
in the Chief Executive’s Review, we are committed to increasing the level of investment in each Division over the next three years 
through the Growth Acceleration Plan. This investment covers a large range of initiatives and we have factored both the costs 
and the related benefits into the approved budgets and five year projections used in the impairment review. 
Short-term average growth rates used for the four year projections from 2016 to 2019 vary across each CGU. However, 
the weighted average compound annual growth rate (”CAGR”) for the four trading Divisions is: Academic Publishing 2%; 
Business Intelligence 6%; Global Exhibitions 9%; and Knowledge & Networking 11%.
Our current estimate of long-term average growth rates are 3% for Academic Publishing, Global Exhibitions and the Continental 
Europe CGU in Knowledge & Networking and 2% for Business Intelligence and the remainder of Knowledge & Networking. 
The rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. In 2013, the long-term average growth rates 
were 2% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and European Conferences, and 3% for Global Events.
During the year, the pre-tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations were increased to reflect the Group’s assessment 
of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs. The change is an increase of 1% over the previous year.
In 2014, the pre-tax discount rates applied are 10.5% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and 11.5% for 
the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking businesses, with the exception of the Continental Europe CGU in 
Knowledge & Networking where the pre-tax discount rate has increased by 1% to 12.5%, which is to reflect the challenging 
economic conditions in Europe. Management has increased the pre-tax discount rate to reflect our assessment of the current 
market and other risks specific to the CGUs. In 2013, the pre-tax discount rates applied were 9.5% for Academic Publishing 
and Business Intelligence and 10.5% for the Global Events businesses with the exception of the European Conferences CGU 
where the pre-tax discount rate was increased by 1% to 11.5%.
The impairment review has identified indicators of impairment for the Consumer, Pharma & Healthcare and Australia Exhibitions 
CGUs. The Consumer and Pharma & Healthcare CGUs are included in the Business Intelligence Division and the Australia 
Exhibitions CGU is in the Global Exhibitions Division. All three CGUs have been impacted by the tough market conditions 
and in the case of the Australia Exhibitions CGU the operations were closed in November.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 145
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
17. GOODWILL (CONTINUED)
Updated projections have been produced for these CGUs which has resulted in an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill 
by £193.4m and intangible assets by £9.1m, split out as follows:
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Consumer 149.0 1.0 150.0
Pharma & Healthcare 40.0 − 40.0
Australia Exhibitions 4.4 8.1 12.5
193.4 9.1 202.5
The carrying amounts for the impaired CGUs at 31 December 2014 are:
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Consumer – 16.2 16.2
Pharma & Healthcare 288.4 46.4 334.8
Australia Exhibitions − − −
288.4 62.6 351.0
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising 
from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios. The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU 
with the sensitivities summarised as follows:
an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1%;
a decrease of 1% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and 2% for Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & 
Networking on forecast operating profits over years 2–5; and
a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that when applying all of the above criteria, a further impairment of £58.1m would arise for  
Pharma & Healthcare. For the other CGUs, no impairment would result from the scenarios in our sensitivity analysis.
www.informa.com
146 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 18. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Book lists
and
journal
titles
£m
Database
content and
intellectual
property
£m
Exhibitions
and
conferences
1
£m
Sub
total
1
£m
Intangible
software
assets
£m
Product
development
2
£m
Total
1
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 685.2 735.5 247.7 1,668.4 123.7 26.8 1,818.9
Arising on acquisitions
3
12.6 21.7 23.5 57.8 (0.1) − 57.7
Additions
4,5
14.4 18.0 27.1 59.5 8.3 2.7 70.5
Disposals
6
 (Note 22) (19.2) (216.5) (22.3) (258.0) (13.4) (13.0) (284.4)
Exchange differences (7.8) (8.1) (13.5) (29.4) (0.9) (0.4) (30.7)
At 1 January 2014 685.2 550.6 262.5 1,498.3 117.6 16.1 1,632.0
Arising on acquisitions in the year 15.7 − 51.3 67.0 0.1 − 67.1
Adjustment to prior year 
acquisitions − (0.4) 9.8 9.4 − − 9.4
Additions
4,5
6.4 − 10.4 16.8 8.3 1.7 26.8
Disposals (Note 22) (0.2) − (3.7) (3.9) (45.2) (49.1)
Reclassification − − − − − (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange differences 20.2 16.9 2.1 39.2 1.8 0.8 41.8
At 31 December 2014 727.3 567.1 332.4 1,626.8 82.6 18.4 1,727.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 2013 (203.1) (525.3) (146.8) (875.2) (60.7) (8.3) (944.2)
Charge for the year
1
(41.4) (54.4) (25.4) (121.2) (14.8) (3.2) (139.2)
Impairment losses for the 
year (Note 2) − − (0.3) (0.3) (17.1) − (17.4)
Disposals
6
 (Note 22) 19.2 176.8 21.0 217.0 11.2 6.3 234.5
Exchange differences 2.6 6.5 3.5 12.6 0.6 0.1 13.3
At 1 January 2014 (222.7) (396.4) (148.0) (767.1) (80.8) (5.1) (853.0)
Charge for the year (40.1) (28.0) (25.8) (93.9) (10.3) (1.8) (106.0)
Impairment losses for the 
year (Note 2) − (2.8) (8.3) (11.1) − − (11.1)
Disposals (Note 22) 0.2 − 1.3 1.5 44.9 − 46.4
Exchange differences (7.5) (12.4) (2.3) (22.2) (0.8) (0.3) (23.3)
At 31 December 2014 (270.1) (439.6) (183.1) (892.8) (47.0) (7.2) (947.0)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 457.2 127.5 149.3 734.0 35.6 11.2 780.8
At 31 December 2013 462.5 154.2 114.5 731.2 36.8 11.0 779.0
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
2 
All product development in 2014 and 2013 is internally generated.
3 
Of the £57.7m arising on acquisitions in 2013, £10.4m related to prior year acquisitions.
4 
Of the £16.8m (2013 restated: £59.5m) additions to Book lists and journal titles, Database content and intellectual property and Exhibitions and conferences, 
£10.8m (2013: £47.6m) represents cash paid.
5 
£8.3m (2013: £8.3m) additions to Intangible software assets and £1.7m (2013: £2.7m) additions to product development represent cash paid.  
All research and development activity during the year met capitalisation criteria and was capitalised as additions.
6 
Included in disposals for 2013 are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 147
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
18. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of £70.2m (2013: £103.7m) and accumulated amortisation of £39.0m 
(2013: £71.2m) which relates to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
As a result of the impairment review (see Note 17) impairments have been recognised in the Business Intelligence Division for the 
Consumer CGU (£1.0m) and in Australia in Global Exhibitions (£8.1m).
As a consequence of reducing the contingent consideration for prior year acquisitions by £1.8m, an impairment charge of £1.8m 
in Business Intelligence and £0.2m in Global Exhibitions has also been recognised. The re-measurement of the contingent 
consideration and impairment has been presented as adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement – see Note 2.
19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
CASH PAID ON ACQUISITION NET OF CASH ACQUIRED
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current period acquisitions
1
Hanley Wood Exhibitions business 239.8 −
Virgo Group 85.6 −
Provisuale Participações Ltda 7.2 −
Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co., Ltd 2.0 −
Other 17.9 −
Prior year acquisitions
2013 acquisitions:
 EBD Group 0.1 29.2
 Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co., Ltd − 27.4
 Other 1.2 26.5
2012 acquisitions:
 Fertecon Limited 1.5 −
 Sagient Research Systems Inc. 0.4 −
 Other 1.5 0.3
2011 acquisitions:
 Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participações S.A. − 2.4
 Other 0.2 −
2010 acquisitions:
 Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. − 1.4
 Other − 0.1
357.4 87.3
1 
These acquisitions are covered by the ‘Business combinations made in 2014’ tables in this note. Where goodwill is provisional, a best estimate of fair value has 
been made but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should it be necessary. 
In line with the Group’s strategy, a number of acquisitions were made in the year. All acquisitions were paid for in cash (including deferred 
and contingent consideration), with the exception of the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition which was partly financed by an equity 
placement. For all acquisitions full control over the business has been obtained by acquiring 100% of the ordinary issued share capital, 
with the exception of the acquisition of Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co., Ltd where 85% of the ordinary issued share 
capital was acquired, and the acquisition of Design Junction Limited where 90% of the ordinary issued share capital was acquired.
The contingent consideration for our share and asset acquisitions is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and 
has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available data forecasts. The range of undiscounted outcomes 
for contingent consideration is £2.6m to £25.3m.
www.informa.com
148 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014
Hanley Wood Exhibitions
On 5 December 2014, the Group acquired 100% shareholding in Red Point, LLC (“Red Point”), which in turn holds a 100% 
shareholding in both Hanley Wood Topco, Inc. (“HW Topco”) and Greenbuild, Inc. (“Greenbuild”). HW Topco also holds a 100% 
shareholding in Hanley Wood Exhibitions, Inc. (“HW Exh”), collectively the “Hanley Wood Exhibitions”.
Red Point and HW Topco are holding companies and all trade occurs in HW Exh and Greenbuild. Immediately post-acquisition, 
Red Point, LLC, Hanley Wood Topco, Inc. and Hanley Wood Exhibitions, Inc. were renamed to IE Merger Sub, LLC, IE Topco, Inc. 
and Informa Exhibitions U.S. Construction & Real Estate, Inc. respectively.
Hanley Wood Exhibitions is one of the largest trade show organisers in the US, with a portfolio of 17 annual Exhibitions focused 
on building and construction. The combined acquisition information has been disclosed to provide better understanding of the 
transaction. The companies form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was £239.8m comprising of cash consideration of £238.4m plus net overdraft acquired of £1.4m.
The disclosure below provides the net (liabilities)/assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments:
Net (liabilities)/assets at date of acquisition
Book
value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair
value
£m
Property and equipment 1.5 – 1.5
Trade and other receivables 5.5 – 5.5
Cash and cash equivalents (1.4) – (1.4)
Deferred tax asset 10.3 – 10.3
Trade and other payables (1.6) – (1.6)
Deferred income 21.9) – 21.9)
Net liabilities acquired (7.6) – (7.6)
Goodwill 248.2
Total consideration 240.6
Less: contingent consideration (2.2)
Plus: net overdraft acquired 1.4
Net cash outflow 239.8
Due to the proximity of the business combination to the year end, the Group has been unable to obtain a detailed valuation, from 
an external third party, of the intangible and tangible assets acquired with the business. Accordingly, the surplus of consideration 
over fair value of the share of net assets acquired has been allocated to goodwill at 31 December 2014. The Group expects to 
obtain a valuation of intangible assets, including trade name and customer relationships, and other acquired assets and liabilities 
in early 2015. The value of goodwill will be adjusted by a corresponding amount for the value of intangible assets identified 
(including any associated deferred tax liabilities) and the difference between the market and book values of the assets and 
liabilities. Management believes that goodwill remaining after this exercise will comprise value to the Group for which the 
recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted and will represent future growth opportunities.
Acquisition and integration costs (included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2014) amounted to £2.8m.
The business contributed £0.4m to loss after tax and less than £0.1m to revenue of the Group for the period between 
the date of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed £10.3m to profit 
after tax and £37 .6m to revenue of the Group.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 149
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (CONTINUED)
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 (CONTINUED)
Virgo Group
On 8 August 2014, the Group acquired 100% shareholding in VPG Alternative Investment Corp (“VPG Corp”), Arlington VPG 
Alternative Investment Fund (“VPG Fund”) and Arlington Virgo Holdings, LLC (“Virgo Hold Co”), which in turn holds a 100% 
shareholding in Virgo Publishing LLC (“Virgo LLC”), collectively the “Virgo Group”.
Immediately post-acquisition, VPG Corp and VPG Fund were merged into Virgo Hold Co. The result of this merger is a 100% 
shareholding in Virgo Hold Co which in turn holds a 100% shareholding in Virgo LLC, renamed Informa Exhibitions Hold Co 
and Informa Exhibitions LLC respectively.
The Virgo Group is a leading B2B information services business with a portfolio of annual Exhibitions and conferences, trade 
websites and affiliated publications, focused on the Health & Nutrition, Communications, Healthcare and Self-Storage market 
sectors. The combined acquisition information has been disclosed to provide better understanding of the transaction. 
The companies form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was £85.6m comprising of cash consideration of £88.5m less net cash acquired of £2.9m.
The disclosure below provides the net (liabilities)/assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments:
Net (liabilities)/assets at date of acquisition
Book
value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair
value
£m
Intangible assets – 38.2 38.2
Intangible software assets 0.1 – 0.1
Property and equipment 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 1.6 – 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 2.9 – 2.9
Deferred tax asset 3.4 – 3.4
Trade and other payables (1.0) – (1.0)
Deferred income (8.2) – (8.2)
Net (liabilities)/assets acquired (0.9) 38.2 37.3
Goodwill 51.2
Total consideration 88.5
Less: net cash acquired (2.9)
Net cash outflow 85.6
Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, 
represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets, such as:
a meaningful foothold in the US Exhibition market, the largest market geographically in the world;
an opportunity to achieve revenue synergies as the Virgo Group owns and operates the largest Exhibition in the world, 
and Informa owns the largest in Europe, for the sector of Innovative and Healthy Ingredients;
superior growth characteristics, with strong organic revenue growth in 2013 and 2014; and
a strong management team with expertise which can be applied to other events outside of the US.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities have been finalised and valued externally by a third party.
www.informa.com
150 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows:
£m
Trade name and trademarks 10.6
Customer relationships 26.8
Non-compete agreements 0.8
Total intangible assets 38.2
Acquisition and integration costs (included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2014) amounted to £0.4m.
The business contributed £2.9m to profit after tax and £11.7m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date 
of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed £1.3m to loss after 
tax and £18.9m to revenue of the Group.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 151
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (CONTINUED)
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 (CONTINUED)
Provisuale Participações Ltda
On 13 October 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Provisuale Participações Ltda. The company owns 
and operates its sole event called Futurecom, a large annual telecoms Exhibition held in São Paulo, Brazil. The company forms 
part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was £7 .2m comprising of cash consideration of £7 .6m less net cash acquired of £0.4m.
The disclosure below provides the net (liabilities)/assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments:
Net (liabilities)/assets at date of acquisition
Book
value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair
value
£m
Intangible assets – 5.8 5.8
Trade and other receivables 2.1 – 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other payables (0.6) – (0.6)
Deferred income (3.7) – (3.7)
Deferred tax liabilities – (1.9) (1.9)
Net (liabilities)/assets acquired (1.8) 3.9 2.1
Goodwill 11.7
Total consideration 13.8
Less: deferred consideration (0.9)
Less: contingent consideration (5.3)
Less: net cash acquired (0.4)
Net cash outflow 7.2
Goodwill arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets of that business 
primarily due to the synergies we expect to gain from the acquisition. The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities 
assumed are provisional pending receipt of final valuations.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows:
£m
Trademark 3.5
Customer relationships 2.3
Total intangible assets 5.8
Acquisition and integration costs (included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2014) amounted to £0.1m.
The business contributed £2.2m to profit after tax and £5.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date 
of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed £1.7m to profit after 
tax and £5.0m to revenue of the Group.
www.informa.com
152 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 China Beauty Expo
On 27 December 2013, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co., Ltd (“Baiwen”). 
On 13 March 2014, the Group subsequently acquired 85% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting 
Co., Ltd (“Meisheng”). Baiwen owns and operates China Beauty Expo, the largest beauty trade event in mainland China. This 
event comprises of three specialised shows in beauty salons and spa products; cosmetics and toiletries; and packaging, original 
equipment manufacturer and machinery. Meisheng owns the MeiYe Awards held at the China Beauty Expo event and the 
associated publication, Cosmetic News. The acquisition of these companies was subject to the Chinese government approval 
and therefore completed at different periods. The combined acquisition information has been disclosed to provide better 
understanding of the transaction. The companies will form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
As reported in 2013, the net cash outflow in the Baiwen acquisition was £27 .4m comprising of cash consideration of £37 .9m 
less net cash acquired of £10.5m.
The net cash outflow in relation to the Meisheng acquisition was £2.0m comprising of cash consideration of £2.7m less net 
cash acquired of £0.7m.
The disclosure below provides the net assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments:
Net assets at date of acquisition
Book
value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair
value
£m
Intangible assets – 10.4 10.4
Trade and other receivables 2.1 – 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents 11.2 – 11.2
Trade and other payables (1.6) – (1.6)
Deferred income (6.3) – (6.3)
Deferred tax liabilities – (2.6) (2.6)
5.4 7.8 13.2
Non-controlling interest (1.0) – (1.0)
Net assets acquired 4.4 7.8 12.2
Goodwill 28.4
Total consideration 40.6
Less: net cash acquired (11.2)
Net cash outflow 29.4
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 153
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (CONTINUED)
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 (CONTINUED)
China Beauty Expo (continued)
By company:
Net assets at date of acquisition
Baiwen
£m
Meisheng
£m
Total
£m
Intangible assets 9.7 0.7 10.4
Trade and other receivables 1.7 0.4 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents 10.5 0.7 11.2
Trade and other payables (1.6) – (1.6)
Deferred income (5.5) (0.8) (6.3)
Deferred tax liabilities (2.4) (0.2) (2.6)
12.4 0.8 13.2
Non-controlling interest (1.0) – (1.0)
Net assets acquired 11.4 0.8 12.2
Goodwill 26.5 1.9 28.4
Total consideration 37.9 2.7 40.6
Less: net cash acquired (10.5) (0.7) (11.2)
Net cash outflow 27.4 2.0 29.4
The goodwill of £28.4m relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated. These include items such as 
customer loyalty, market share and synergies expected to arise after the acquisition completion.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows:
Baiwen
£m
Meisheng
£m
Total
£m
Software 5.3 0.4 5.7
Brand 4.4 0.3 4.7
Total intangible assets 9.7 0.7 10.4
Acquisition and integration costs (included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2014) amounted to less than £0.1m.
Baiwen contributed £0.3m to loss after tax and £8.9m to revenue of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and did 
not contribute to the 2013 results of the Group due to the proximity of the acquisition to the 2013 year end. Meisheng contributed 
£0.8m to profit after tax and £1.3m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the Meisheng acquisition had been completed on the first day of the 2014 financial year, it would have contributed £0.8m to profit 
after tax and £1.3m to revenue of the Group.
OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Landes Bioscience, Inc. and M. E. Sharpe, Inc. which form part of the 
Academic Publishing segment.
The Group also acquired 100% of the issued share capital of E-Health Media Limited and 90% of the issued share capital of 
Design Junction Limited which form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was £17 .4m comprising of cash consideration of £19.0m less net cash acquired of £1.6m. During 2014, 
deferred and contingent consideration of £0.5m was paid.
www.informa.com
154 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The disclosure below provides the net (liabilities)/assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments:
Net (liabilities)/assets at date of acquisition
Book
value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair
value
£m
Intangible assets – 22.2 22.2
Inventory 0.2 – 0.2
Trade and other receivables 1.8 – 1.8
Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 – 1.6
Deferred tax asset 1.4 – 1.4
Trade and other payables (1.5) – (1.5)
Deferred income (3.9) – (3.9)
Deferred tax liabilities – (6.2) (6.2)
Net (liabilities)/assets acquired (0.4) 16.0 15.6
Goodwill 6.2
Total consideration 21.8
Less: deferred consideration (2.2)
Less: contingent consideration (0.6)
Less: net cash acquired (1.6)
Net cash outflow 17.4
Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents 
benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets. The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities 
assumed are provisional pending receipt of final valuations.
The intangible assets of £22.2m will typically relate to trade name, trademark and customer relationships which are split across 
each of the individual share acquisitions.
Acquisition and integration costs (included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2014) amounted to £0.9m.
The above acquisitions contributed £1.5m to profit after tax and £6.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date 
of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they would have contributed £1.2m to profit 
after tax and £10.0m to revenue of the Group.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2013
During 2014, a payment totalling £0.1m was paid to the previous owners of the EBD Group and this resulted in an increase 
in the value of the intangible asset of £0.1m.
During 2014, payments totalling £0.1m were received in relation to consideration receivable for acquired net asset adjustments.
During 2014, further payments totalling £1.3m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for acquisitions 
made in 2013. The remaining £1.9m contingent consideration for these acquisitions is payable within one year.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2012
During 2014, payments totalling £1.5m, £0.4m and £1.5m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for 
Fertecon Limited, Sagient Research Systems Inc., and other acquisitions made in 2012, respectively. As a result, contingent 
and deferred consideration relating to 2012 acquisitions have been fully repaid.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2011
During 2014, payments totalling £0.2m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for acquisitions 
made in 2011.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 155
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
20. INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES
2014
£m
Restated
2013
£m
Restated
2012
£m
Investment in joint ventures 0.2 0.6 0.5
The Group’s joint ventures at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Company Segment
Type of
business
Country of
incorporation
and operation
Class of
shares
held
Share
holding/
interest
Accounting
year end
Lloyd’s Maritime Information 
Services Limited
Business 
Intelligence
Business 
information
England 
and Wales
Ordinary 50% 31 December
SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda Global 
Exhibitions
Event 
organisation
Brazil Ordinary 49% 31 December
Independent Materials Handling 
Exhibitions Limited
Global 
Exhibitions
Event 
organisation
England and 
Wales
Ordinary 50% 31 December
Informa Tharawat LLC Global 
Exhibitions
Conference 
organisation
State of Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December
As per Note 2, the Group has adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements in the period, which has meant changing the accounting 
for joint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity accounting. This change in policy requires a restatement of the 
comparative periods as well.
An analysis of changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures is set out below:
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Restated at start of year 0.6 0.5 0.3
Share of results of joint ventures (0.4) 0.4 0.2
Dividends received – (0.2) –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – (0.1) –
At end of year 0.2 0.6 0.5
www.informa.com
156 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The following represent the aggregate assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Group’s joint ventures:
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets 0.6 2.7 –
Current assets 2.0 1.9 2.2
Non-current liabilities (1.9) (2.0) –
Current liabilities (1.7) (1.4) (1.8)
Income 1.5 5.9 0.4
Expenses (3.7) (5.3) (0.3)
The loss recognised in SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda exceeds the investment held on the balance sheet. Therefore £0.7m 
of operating losses has been recognised off balance sheet. Any future operating profits for SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda 
will be offset against this balance before being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
21. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
On 30 September 2013, the Group disposed of its five Corporate Training businesses, which created a loss for the period from 
discontinued operations of £109.5m. The loss included £99.3m recognised on disposal, being proceeds of £87 .3m (at fair value); 
less the carrying amount of the net assets and attributable goodwill.
These businesses were a separate CGU and included within the Global Events reportable segment, as under the reporting 
structure in 2013.
The results of the discontinued operation, which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement, were as follows:
2013
£m
Revenue 76.2
Expenses (90.1)
Loss before tax (13.9)
Attributable tax credit 3.9
(10.0)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (Note 22) (99.3)
Attributable tax charge (0.2)
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (109.5)
The disposal made in 2014 (see Note 22) does not meet the definition of a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 157
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
22. DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY AND OTHER ASSETS
DISPOSALS MADE IN 2014
During the year the Group disposed of its Fashion Exposed event in Australia. Upon completion, proceeds of £0.4m were received, 
resulting in a loss on disposal of £1.3m – see Note 2.
Following the disposal of the Corporate Training businesses on 30 September 2013, final adjustments (including related costs) 
of £1.5m have been recognised in the loss on disposal. This has been included as an adjusting item in the Consolidated Income 
Statement – see Note 2.
DISPOSALS MADE IN 2013
On 30 September 2013, the Group disposed of its five Corporate Training businesses; the European Conferences businesses in 
Spain and Italy; the trade and assets in the Superyacht Cup; and other small businesses. A loss on disposal of £102.7m, including 
directly attributable costs of £11.1m, has been recognised within adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The disclosure below sets out the aggregate effect of the disposals on the Group’s assets and liabilities:
Corporate 
Training
£m
Other 
businesses
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill 119.1 – 119.1
Other intangible assets (excluding intangible software assets) 46.4 1.3 47.7
Intangible software assets 2.1 – 2.1
Property and equipment 0.9 0.1 1.0
Inventory 0.7 – 0.7
Trade and other receivables 25.3 1.4 26.7
Cash and cash equivalents 3.5 1.8 5.3
Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.1 0.2
Trade and other payables (13.6) (1.7) (15.3)
Deferred income (2.6) (0.8) (3.4)
Deferred tax liabilities (8.4) (0.3) (8.7)
Net assets disposed 173.5 1.9 175.4
Costs directly attributable with the disposal 9.8 1.3 11.1
Cumulative foreign exchange losses reclassified from equity 3.3 0.3 3.6
Loss on disposal (99.3) (3.4) (102.7)
Total consideration 87.3 0.1 87.4
Satisfied by:
Cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4
Deferred consideration 27.0 – 27.0
Net cash inflow arising on disposal
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3.5) (1.8) (5.3)
Less: costs directly attributable with the disposal (6.6) (1.0) (7.6)
50.2 (2.7) 47.5
The loss on disposal of £99.3m for the Corporate Training businesses is included within discontinued operations – see Note 21.
www.informa.com
158 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 23. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold
land and
buildings
£m
Leasehold
land and
buildings
£m
Equipment
fixtures
and fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 2.4 12.5 42.6 57.5
Additions
1
− 0.9 5.0 5.9
Disposals − (2.6) (9.4) (12.0)
Disposal of subsidiaries (Note 22) − (1.5) (3.7) (5.2)
Exchange differences − (0.2) (0.6) (0.8)
At 1 January 2014 2.4 9.1 33.9 45.4
Additions
1
− 1.2 3.6 4.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries − 0.1 1.8 1.9
Reclassification − 0.2 − 0.2
Disposals − (1.3) (3.7) (5.0)
Exchange differences − 0.2 0.8 1.0
At 31 December 2014 2.4 9.5 36.4 48.3
Depreciation
At 1 January 2013 (0.4) (6.7) (31.1) (38.2)
Charge for the year − (1.4) (5.4) (6.8)
Disposals − 2.4 9.0 11.4
Disposal of subsidiaries (Note 22) − 1.0 3.2 4.2
Exchange differences − 0.1 0.4 0.5
At 1 January 2014 (0.4) (4.6) (23.9) (28.9)
Charge for the year − (1.1) (5.0) (6.1)
Disposals − 1.3 3.6 4.9
Exchange differences − (0.1) (0.6) (0.7)
At 31 December 2014 (0.4) (4.5) (25.9) (30.8)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 2.0 5.0 10.5 17.5
At 31 December 2013 2.0 4.5 10.0 16.5
1 
All the £4.8m (2013: £5.9m) additions represents cash paid. 
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 159
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
24. SUBSIDIARIES
The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014 which principally affected the profits or net assets 
of the Group. To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Company
Country of 
registration 
and incorporation Principal activity
Ordinary 
shares held
Informa Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100%
Informa Group plc England and Wales Holding company 100%
Informa Switzerland Limited 
(formerly known as Informa plc)
Switzerland Holding company 100%
Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 100%
Informa Middle East Limited Bermuda Conference organisation and publishing 100%
Informa IP GmbH Switzerland Intellectual property management 100%
Informa Exhibitions, LLC US Events organisation 100%
Provisuale Participações Ltda Brazil Events organisation 100%
Informa Exhibitions US Construction 
& Real Estate, Inc.
US Events organisation 100%
Informa UK Limited England and Wales Events, conference organisation and publishing 100%
Taylor & Francis Group, LLC US Publishing 100%
IIR Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100%
Informa Telecoms & Media Limited England and Wales Events, conference organisation and publishing 100%
Informa Investment Solutions Inc. US Financial information 100%
Informa Business Information Inc. US Intelligence information gathering service 100%
Citeline, Inc. US Intelligence information gathering service 100%
BTS Informa Feiras, Eventos e 
Editora Ltda
Brazil Events organisation 100%
Informa Canada Inc. Canada Events and conference organisation 100%
Informa Global Markets (Europe) Limited England and Wales Financial information 100%
Informa Monaco S.A.M. Monaco Events organisation 100%
Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co., Limited China Events organisation 80%
Datamonitor Inc. US Business information 100%
Emerging Portfolio Funds Research Inc. US Financial information 100%
IIR Exhibitions Limited England and Wales Events organisation 100%
Institute for International Research Inc. US Conference organisation 100%
Informa Research Services Inc. US Market research consulting 100%
Of the above, Informa PLC directly owns Informa Switzerland Limited (formerly known as Informa plc). The proportion of voting 
power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest. The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial 
statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year. Refer to Note 3 for further description of the 
method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
In addition to the companies shown above, Informa PLC also holds investments in a number of other subsidiary undertakings 
which in the Directors’ opinion do not significantly affect the figures in the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance 
with section 410(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries was annexed to the 2014 annual return submitted 
to Companies House. A full list of subsidiaries will be submitted to Companies House during 2015.
www.informa.com
160 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 25. INVENTORY
2014
£m
2013
£m
Raw materials 0.1 −
Work in progress 7.6 7.3
Finished goods and goods for resale 36.8 34.9
44.5 42.2
Write down of inventory during the year amounted to £1.6m (2013: £2.7m).
26. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Current
Trade receivables 178.1 162.1
Less: provision (26.0) (21.6)
Trade receivables net 152.1 140.5
Other receivables 17.4 13.4
Prepayments and accrued income 32.3 27.7
Costs in advance 17.1 21.4
218.9 203.0
Non-current
Other receivables 30.9 38.1
Total non-current 30.9 38.1
249.8 241.1
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 30 days (2013: 30 days). The Group has provision policies for its various 
Divisions which have been determined by reference to past default experience. Under the normal course of business, the Group 
does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
Other non-current receivables primarily consists of a long-term receivable of £30.0m provided by the acquirer as consideration 
for the disposal of the Corporate Training business in 2013. The non-current receivable is repayable in 2019. The movements in 
the year relate to the impairment of China Medical Data Services and Expo Vinis receivables totalling £14.5m (see Note 2), offset 
by effective interest on loan receivable and foreign exchange movements.
The Group’s exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 33.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 161
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
27. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Note
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 38.6 32.0
Bank overdrafts 32 (3.3) (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 35.3 31.5
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
The gross position for the cash at bank and in hand that has the legal right to set off the gross financial assets was £39.8m 
(2013: £35.3m) and the gross financial liabilities were £4.5m (2013: £3.8m).
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 33.
28. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Current
Deferred consideration 5.7 2.1
Trade payables 29.4 32.8
Accruals 127.1 118.3
Other payables 35.8 26.2
Total current 198.0 179.4
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1.2 3.4
Other payables 4.7 3.1
Total non-current 5.9 6.5
203.9 185.9
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
An analysis of the maturity of debt is given in Note 33.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.  
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 35 days (2013: 42 days).
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2014 or 2013.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame. 
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
www.informa.com
162 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 29. DEFERRED INCOME
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Subscriptions and event revenue received in advance 342.9 315.9
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
30. PROVISIONS
Contingent
consideration
£m
Property
leases
£m
Restructuring
provision
£m
Other
provision
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 7.6 2.6 3.3 0.3 13.8
Increase in year 11.3 1.0 25.4 3.6 41.3
Utilisation (5.4) (1.0) (22.4) (3.1) (31.9)
Release (2.5) (0.5) (0.4) − (3.4)
At 1 January 2014 11.0 2.1 5.9 0.8 19.8
Increase in year 12.4 2.8 21.0 0.1 36.3
Utilisation (5.9) (0.5) (18.2) (0.8) (25.4)
Release (1.8) (0.5) (0.2) − (2.5)
At 31 December 2014 15.7 3.9 8.5 0.1 28.2
2014
Current liabilities 5.7 2.3 8.3 0.1 16.4
Non-current liabilities 10.1 1.6 0.1 − 11.8
2013
Current liabilities 5.5 0.7 5.7 0.8 12.7
Non-current liabilities 5.5 1.4 0.2 − 7.1
The contingent consideration relates primarily to current year acquisitions (Provisuale Participações Ltda, Design Junction Limited, 
Landes Bioscience, Inc. and M.E. Sharpe, Inc.) and prior year acquisitions (Apps World Event Limited and Doyle Trading 
Consultants, LLC). The contingent consideration will be paid in one to three years.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation 
provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases. The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
As outlined in Note 2, during 2014 the Group implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects. The restructuring 
provision is expected to be substantially utilised by 31 December 2015.
The other provision relates to a finder’s fee on the acquisition of Agrishow. The majority of the other provision is fully utilised as at 
31 December 2014.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 163
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
31. DEFERRED TAX
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Intangibles
£m
Pensions
(Note 39)
£m
Other
£m
Cash
flow
hedges
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 0.1 179.8 (4.0) (15.0) − 160.9
Debit to other comprehensive income for the year − − 2.2 − 0.1 2.3
Acquisitions − 16.9 − (4.3) − 12.6
(Credit)/charge to profit or loss for the year 
excluding UK corporation tax rate change (5.4) (15.6) 0.7 (1.3) − (21.6)
Charge/(credit) to profit or loss for the year arising 
from UK corporation tax rate change 0.8 (6.7) − 0.6 − (5.3)
Disposals 0.1 (9.3) − 0.7 − (8.5)
Foreign exchange movements − (6.1) − 0.2 − (5.9)
At 1 January 2014 (4.4) 159.0 (1.1) (19.1) 0.1 134.5
Credit to other comprehensive income for the year − − (1.7) − (0.1) (1.8)
Acquisitions 0.1 11.6 − (15.3) − (3.6)
(Credit)/charge to profit or loss for the year 
excluding UK corporation tax rate change − (9.7) 0.7 3.2 − (5.8)
Charge to profit or loss for the year arising from 
UK corporation tax rate change − 0.4 − − − 0.4
Disposals − (0.6) − − − (0.6)
Foreign exchange movements 0.1 3.4 − (1.0) − 2.5
At 31 December 2014 (4.2) 164.1 (2.1) (32.2) − 125.6
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the 
analysis of deferred tax balances for Consolidated Statement of Financial Position purposes:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Deferred tax liability 125.6 134.5
Deferred tax asset – −
125.6 134.5
The Finance Act 2013 enacted prospective reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21%, effective from 1 April 2014, 
and to 20%, effective from 1 April 2015. The impact of this prospective reduction for 2013 was to reduce the Group’s deferred tax 
liability by £4.8m, increase profit for the year by £5.3m and reduce other comprehensive income by £0.5m. The impact for the 
current year is to increase the Group’s deferred tax liability by £0.4m and decrease profit for the year by £0.4m.
At 31 December 2014 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately £36.6m (2013: £37 .1m) available for offset against future 
profits. A deferred tax asset of £12.1m (2013: £12.5m) has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable 
profit streams.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been recognised was £13.3m (2013: £24.6m). No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in 
a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra-Group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra-Group dividends 
in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
www.informa.com
164 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 32. BORROWINGS
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current
Bank overdraft 27 3.3 0.5
Private placement loan notes 70.4 −
Total current borrowings 73.7 0.5
Non-current
Bank borrowings 450.5 371.9
Private placement loan notes 390.6 442.2
Total non-current borrowings
1
841.1 814.1
914.8 814.6
1 
The borrowings for current and prior year are presented net of arrangement fees. 
There have been no breaches of covenants under the Group’s bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year. 
The bank and private placement borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group. The Group does not have 
any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
The Group maintains the following significant lines of credit:
Private placement loan notes drawn in three currency tranches of US dollar (“USD”) 597 .5m, pound sterling (“GBP”) 40.0m and 
Euro (“EUR”) 50.0m. As at 31 December 2014, the note maturities ranged between one and six years, with an average duration 
of 4.3 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%.
£900.0m (2013: £625.0m) revolving credit facility, of which £455.2m has been drawn down at 31 December 2014. Interest is 
payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
£39.1m (2013: £39.5m) comprising a number of bilateral bank facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing 
needs. These facilities consist of GBP 16.0m (2013: GBP 16.0m), USD 15.0m (2013: USD 15.0m), EUR 15.0m (2013: EUR 15.0m), 
and Australian dollar (“AUD”) 3.5m (2013: AUD 3.5m). Interest is payable at the local base rate plus margins that vary between 
1% and 7%.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2014 is 3.0% (2013: 3.1%).
The Group had the following committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December:
Expiry date
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one to two years − −
In more than two years 444.8 251.1
444.8 251.1
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 33(g).
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 165
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(A) FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
Capital risk management
Market risk
Credit risk
Liquidity risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s management of capital, 
and the Group’s objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s financial 
instrument-related risk management policies. The Treasury Committee meets and reports regularly to the Audit Committee 
on its activities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Group’s businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international 
financial markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports 
which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These risks include market risk (including currency risk, fair value 
interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse financial instrument-related 
risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. These policies 
provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk. Compliance 
with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee. This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal 
Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are 
reported to the Audit Committee.
In October 2014, the Group entered into a new five year revolving credit facility of £900.0m, of which £455.2m was drawn down 
at 31 December 2014. The facility matures in October 2019.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising 
the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business. In order to maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares 
or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings (Note 32) and cash and cash equivalents (Note 
27), and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital (Note 34), reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital
The Group’s Treasury Committee reviews the Group’s capital structure on a regular basis and as part of this review, the Committee 
considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio
The principal financial covenant ratios under the Group’s borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times 
and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually. At 31 December 2014 both financial covenants 
were comfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt (using average exchange rates) to EBITDA of 2.2 times (2013: 2.2 times). 
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable in the year ended 31 December 2014 was 14.4 times (2013: 13.0 times).
www.informa.com
166 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 (B) CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement 
and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity 
instrument, are disclosed in Note 3.
Notes
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Financial assets
Trade receivables 26 152.1 140.5
Other receivables 26 48.3 51.5
Cash and cash equivalents 27 38.6 32.0
Derivative financial instruments in designated  
hedge accounting relationships − 0.5
Total financial assets 239.0 224.5
Financial liabilities
Bank overdraft 32 3.3 0.5
Bank borrowings 32 450.5 371.9
Private placement loan notes 32 461.0 442.2
Trade payables 28 29.4 32.8
Accruals 28 127.1 118.3
Other payables 28 40.5 29.3
Deferred consideration 28 6.9 5.5
Contingent consideration 30 15.7 11.0
Total financial liabilities 1,134.4 1,011.5
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
During the year there were no fair value or net investment hedges of foreign operations entered in during the year.
(C) MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control 
market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group’s activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest 
rates. The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and, by managing the risk of currencies 
of its borrowings, the Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
net currency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable. Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk in Note 33(d) and (e) respectively.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise 
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department 
(“Group Treasury”) under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Board sets the Group’s treasury policy to ensure that it 
has adequate financial resources to develop the Group’s businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the 
Group is exposed. Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure 
to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 167
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(C) MARKET RISK (CONTINUED)
The Board and the Treasury Committee provide written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering 
specific areas, such as funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investments of excess liquidity.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of management’s control actions 
in mitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and Group-wide, and 
the results are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and may drive the allocation 
of Internal Audit resources to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
(D) INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates and is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group 
borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest 
rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating-rate borrowings by the use of 
interest rate swap contracts. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, 
ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either protecting the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position or protecting 
interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Group’s policy is to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges 
to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency 
during that period. This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments 
which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section 
of this note.
Interest rate swap contracts
The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest. A portion of those are then swapped to fixed 
rates in line with the Group treasury policy in order to manage its cash flow interest rate risk. Such contracts enable the Group 
to convert borrowings from floating rates and swap them into fixed rates. Under interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other 
parties to exchange, at specified intervals (primarily monthly), the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest 
amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the future 
interest rate curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest 
rate is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the financial year.
The Group terminated its interest rate swaps during the year and did not replace them. Therefore the Group does not have any 
outstanding contracts at year end.
www.informa.com
168 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding 
as at the reporting date:
Cash flow hedges
Average contracted fixed 
interest rate
Notional
principal amount Fair value
Outstanding receive floating,  
pay fixed contracts
2014
%
2013
%
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year − − − − − −
Within one to two years − 0.54 − 20.0 − −
More than two years − 0.69 − 40.0 − 0.5
− 60.0 − 0.5
At 31 December 2013, the fixed interest rates varied from 0.54% to 0.76%, and the main floating rates were LIBOR. Gains or losses 
deferred in equity on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2013 were recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 
in the same period in which the hedged item affected net profit or loss.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category:
Fixed
rate
£m
Floating
rate
£m
Non-
interest
bearing
£m
Total
2014
£m
Fixed
rate
£m
Floating
rate
£m
Non-
interest
bearing
£m
1
Total
2013
£m
1
Bank overdraft − 3.3 − 3.3 − 0.5 − 0.5
Bank borrowings − 450.5 − 450.5 60.0 311.9 − 371.9
Private placement loan notes 461.0 − − 461.0 442.2 − − 442.2
Trade payables − − 29.4 29.4 − − 32.8 32.8
Accruals − − 127.1 127.1 − − 118.3 118.3
Other payables − − 40.5 40.5 − 0.6 28.7 29.3
Deferred consideration − − 6.9 6.9 − − 5.5 5.5
Contingent consideration − − 15.7 15.7 − − 11.0 11.0
461.0 453.8 219.6 1,134.4 502.2 313.0 196.3 1,011.5
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates or are designated in hedging relationships, and hence the Group’s interest 
rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the 
year would have decreased or increased by £4.5m (2013: £3.1m).
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 169
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(E) FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The Group is a business with significant net USD and net EUR transactions; hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. 
In the absence of any currency conversion, cash positions in USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR, would develop 
imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Group’s policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net 
investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries’ functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD. 
This policy has the effect of partially protecting the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position from movements in 
those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date 
are as follows:
Assets Liabilities
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
USD 156.5 135.6 (982.8) (718.1)
EUR 18.6 20.3 (54.6) (65.0)
Other 39.0 41.3 (40.4) (47.9)
214.1 197.2 (1,077.8) (831.0)
The foreign currency borrowings of £877 .3m (2013: £600.9m) are used to hedge the Group’s net investments 
in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate
2014 2013 2014 2013
USD 1.6485 1.5635 1.5596 1.6510
EUR 1.2422 1.1776 1.2833 1.1997
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group receives approximately 48% of its revenues and incurs approximately 39% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged 
to USD. The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP . Each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP 
exchange rate has a circa £3.4m impact on revenue and a circa £1.5m impact on operating profits. Offsetting this will be 
reductions to USD interest and USD tax liabilities. This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, 
remain constant.
The Group receives approximately 8% of its revenues and incurs approximately 7% of its costs in EUR. The Group is therefore 
sensitive to movements in EUR against GBP . Each €0.01 movement in the EUR to GBP exchange rate has a circa £0.7m impact 
on revenue and a circa £0.2m impact on operating profits. Offsetting this will be reductions to EUR interest and EUR tax liabilities. 
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
www.informa.com
170 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 (F) CREDIT RISK
The Group’s principal financial assets are trade and other receivables (Note 26) and cash and cash equivalents, which represent 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables. The amounts presented in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based 
on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss 
from defaults.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited by dealing only with counterparty banks with high credit 
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies such as Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. The Group’s exposure 
and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread 
amongst approved financial institutions. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by 
the Treasury Committee regularly.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
Non-current other receivables
Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 26. The Risk 
Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis. At 31 December 2014, an 
impairment charge of £14.5m has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, as a result of the Group’s assessment 
of the recoverability of these non-current receivables.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas and the 
Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the 
Group’s customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence 
on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having 
similar characteristics. The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities. Concentration 
of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and 
investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. The main components of this provision are a specific 
loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar 
assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss provision is determined by reference 
to past default experience.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit rating system to assess the potential customer’s 
credit quality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each Division. As the 
Events Division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history. 
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure 
to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 171
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(F) CREDIT RISK (CONTINUED)
Ageing of trade receivables:
Gross 2014
£m
Provision 2014
£m
Gross 2013
£m
Provision 2013
£m
Not past due 105.7 (0.7) 82.1 (0.2)
Past due 0–30 days 30.3 (0.1) 45.6 (0.6)
Past due over 31 days 42.1 (12.0) 34.4 (10.0)
Books provision (see below) − (13.2) − (10.8)
178.1 (26.0) 162.1 (21.6)
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired. For trade 
receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of £2.0m 
(2013: £5.4m) which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and 
the amounts are considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of £13.2m (2013: £10.8m) has been disclosed separately in the table above. This provision 
is based on management’s best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall 
provision balance.
Movement in the provision:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Balance at beginning of the year 21.6 24.4
Provision recognised 10.0 7.1
Receivables written off as uncollectable (2.2) (4.1)
Amounts recovered during the year (3.4) (5.8)
26.0 21.6
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable 
from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer 
base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of 
the above amounts.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2014 and 2013.
www.informa.com
172 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 (G) LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Ultimate responsibility for 
liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury. Group Treasury 
has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term 
funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking and 
other debt facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Included in Note 32 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group 
has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position. The 
Group’s policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP , USD and 
EUR; thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the 
Group’s interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
Liquidity and interest risk tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be 
earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period:
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
1
£m
Less
than
1 year
£m
1–2 years
£m
2–5 years
£m
Greater
than
5 years
£m
31 December 2014
Non-derivative financial assets
Non-interest bearing 209.0 209.0 208.1 0.8 0.1 −
Variable interest rate instruments 30.0 32.7 32.7 − − −
239.0 241.7 240.8 0.8 0.1 −
31 December 2013
Non-derivative financial assets
Non-interest bearing 188.0 188.0 186.3 0.1 1.6 −
Variable interest rate instruments 26.0 31.6 0.2 31.0 0.2 0.2
Fixed interest rate instruments 10.0 23.7 − − − 23.7
224.0 243.3 186.5 31.1 1.8 23.9
Derivative financial assets
Derivative financial instruments 
in designated hedge 
accounting relationships 0.5 0.5 − − 0.5 −
224.5 243.8 186.5 31.1 2.3 23.9
1 
Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 173
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(G) LIQUIDITY RISK (CONTINUED)
Liquidity and interest risk tables (Continued)
The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities. The table 
includes both interest and principal cash flows.
31 December 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
1
£m
Less
than
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
Greater
than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Variable interest rate instruments 453.8 458.9 458.9 − − −
Fixed interest rate instruments 461.0 551.7 19.9 17.5 255.6 258.7
Trade and other payables 197.0 197.0 192.3 4.7 − −
Deferred consideration 6.9 6.9 5.7 1.2 − −
Contingent consideration 15.7 15.7 5.7 9.6 0.4 −
1,134.4 1,230.2 682.5 33.0 256.0 258.7
1 
Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position.
31 December 2013
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
1
£m
Less
than
1 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
Greater
than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Variable interest rate instruments 313.1 315.3 197.7 117.1 0.3 0.2
Fixed interest rate instruments 502.1 608.3 19.2 79.1 254.7 255.3
Trade and other payables 179.8 179.8 176.7 3.1 − −
Deferred consideration 5.5 5.5 2.1 2.1 1.3 −
Contingent consideration 11.0 11.0 5.5 3.1 2.4 −
1,011.5 1,119.9 401.2 204.5 258.7 255.5
1 
Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position. 
The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest. In 2013, a portion of those were then swapped 
to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy. The first portion of these swaps that matured in a period greater than one year 
but less than two years was £20.0m and the final portion that matured between two and five years was £40.0m. The Group 
terminated the interest rate swaps during 2014 and did not replace them.
The variable interest rate on these borrowings is reset by the bank on a monthly basis and as such it is not possible to estimate 
the interest payable on these borrowings.
www.informa.com
174 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 (H) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction 
between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets 
is determined with reference to quoted market prices;
the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) is determined in accordance 
with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market 
transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments; and
the fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, use is made of 
discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, 
and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the 
financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest 
at rates approximate to the market.
The fair value of all the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are the same as the carrying amounts.
(I) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, 
grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability 
that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1
2014
£m
Level 2
2014
£m
Level 3
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments in designated 
hedge accounting relationships − − − −
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments in designated 
hedge accounting relationships − − − −
Level 1
2013
£m
Level 2
2013
£m
Level 3
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments in designated 
hedge accounting relationships − 0.5 − −
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments in designated 
hedge accounting relationships − − − −
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 175
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
34. SHARE CAPITAL
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc (“Old Informa”), the former holding company of the Group, 
and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all 
the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa 
PLC (the “Company”) in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 
share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014, as a private company limited by shares 
with the name Informa Limited and re-registered on 14 May 2014 as a public company limited by shares called Informa PLC. 
The Company became the Parent Company of the Informa Group and the previous Parent Company, Old Informa, was renamed 
Informa Switzerland Limited.
The Company was incorporated with an issued share capital of £2 divided into two ordinary shares of 100p each which 
were taken by the subscribers and were paid up in full in cash. On 13 May 2014 the two ordinary shares of 100p each were 
converted into two Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each and an additional 49,998 Redeemable Deferred Shares were 
issued to the subscribers. The 50,000 issued Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each were redeemed on 11 June 2014.
On 13 May 2014 one ordinary share of 435p in the Company was issued and subsequently cancelled on 30 May 2014. Under the 
Scheme of Arrangement 603,941,249 ordinary shares of 435p each in the Company were allotted to shareholders on 30 May 2014.
On 4 June 2014 the nominal value per share of the issued share capital of the Company was reduced from 435p per share to 0.1p 
each pursuant to sections 645 to 649 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital as at 31 December 2014 amounts to £0.6m. During the year, the Company also issued 45,000,000 ordinary shares 
of 0.1p for consideration of £207 .0m. The share premium (net of transaction costs) is £204.0m as at 31 December 2014.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Issued and fully paid
648,941,249 ordinary shares of 0.1p each (2013: 603,941,249 of 0.1p each) 0.6 0.6
Number of shares £m
At 1 January 2014 603,941,249 0.6
Issued 45,000,000 −
At 31 December 2014 648,941,249 0.6
www.informa.com
176 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 35. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
This note provides further explanation for the “Other reserves” listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Reserves
for shares
to be issued
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Other
reserve
£m
ESOP
Trust
shares
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 5.9 496.4 (1,718.6) (0.3) − (1,216.6)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges − − − − 0.5 0.5
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
(Note 31) − − − − (0.1) (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year − − − − 0.4 0.4
Share award expense 2.2 − − − − 2.2
Own shares purchased − − − (0.4) − (0.4)
Transfer of vested LTIPs (4.5) − − 0.5 − (4.0)
At 1 January 2014 3.6 496.4 (1,718.6) (0.2) 0.4 (1,218.4)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges − − − − (0.2) (0.2)
Termination of interest rate swaps − − − − (0.3) (0.3)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
(Note 31) − − − − 0.1 0.1
Total comprehensive expense for the year − − − − (0.4) (0.4)
Inversion accounting − − 1,756.0 − − 1,756.0
Issue of shares under scheme of arrangement − − (2,189.9) − − (2,189.9)
Share award expense 1.7 − − − − 1.7
Own shares purchased − − − (0.1) − (0.1)
Put option on acquisition of non-controlling interest − − (0.3) − − (0.3)
Transfer of vested LTIPs (2.1) − − − − (2.1)
At 31 December 2014 3.2 496.4 (2,152.8) (0.3) − (1,653.5)
RESERVE FOR SHARES TO BE ISSUED
This reserve relates to LTIPs granted to employees. Further information is set out in Note 11.
MERGER RESERVE
The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from the business combination with Taylor & Francis 
Group plc.
OTHER RESERVE
Other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of £2,189.9m, which was created from the new equity structure in May 
2014. It also includes a redemption reserve, which is the reserve fund into which profits are allocated for the purpose of redeeming 
or buying back shares in the Company.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 177
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
35. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
ESOP TRUST SHARES
As at 31 December 2014 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 737 ,272 (2013: 737 ,272) ordinary shares in the Company at a cost 
of £737 (2013: £737) and a market value of £3.7m (2013: £4.2m). 737 ,272 shares (2013: 712,051) held by the Employee Share Trust 
have not been allocated to individuals and the remaining shares have been allocated to individuals in accordance with the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan as set out in the Remuneration Report on page 93 and 105. Dividends on the shares held by the Employee 
Share Trust are waived.
At 31 December 2014 the Group held 0.0% (2013: 0.0%) of its own called up share capital.
HEDGING RESERVE
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
36. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
The Group’s non-controlling interest at 31 December 2014 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority 
shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited (18.2%), Bureau Européen de Recherches SA (18.2%), Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co., 
Ltd (20%), Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co., Ltd (15%), Design Junction Limited (10%) and Monaco Yacht Show 
S.A.M (10%).
The Group’s non-controlling interest at 31 December 2013 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority 
shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited (18.2%), Bureau Européen de Recherches SA (18.2%), Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co., 
Ltd (20%) and Monaco Yacht Show S.A.M (10%).
37. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year 18.6 20.4
At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2014 2013
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Within one year 17.9 0.6 17.5 0.6
Within two to five years 55.7 0.5 50.4 0.5
After five years 26.4 − 21.6 −
100.0 1.1 89.5 1.1
Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of six years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
www.informa.com
178 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 38. NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Notes
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations (31.2) 2.2
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property and equipment 23 6.1 6.8
Amortisation of other intangible assets 18 106.0 139.2
Share-based payment 11 1.7 2.2
Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 (1.8) (2.5)
Loss on disposal of businesses 22 2.8 102.7
Finance costs 12 29.2 29.5
Investment income 13 (3.6) (1.9)
Impairment 2 219.0 66.2
Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 (0.4)
Increase in inventories (2.1) (3.8)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (10.5) 11.1
Decrease/(increase) in payables 1.5 (21.2)
Cash generated by operations 317.5 330.1
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
At
1 January 
2014
1
£m
Non-cash 
items
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movement
£m
At
31 December 
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 32.0 − 3.8 2.8 38.6
Bank overdraft (0.5) − (2.8) − (3.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 31.5 − 1.0 2.8 35.3
Bank loans due in more than one year (371.9) (2.1) (52.1) (24.4) (450.5)
Private placement loan notes due in less than one year − (70.4) − − (70.4)
Private placement loan notes due in more than one year (442.2) 70.1 − (18.5) (390.6)
(782.6) (2.4) (51.1) (40.1) (876.2)
1 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5). 
Included within the cash flow movement of £51.1m is £382.3m (2013: £0.6m) of repayment of borrowings and £439.2m (2013: £nil) 
of loans drawn down.
The net movement caused by non-cash items arises from arrangement fee amortisation of £2.4m (2013: £1.1m).
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 179
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
39. RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the Taylor & Francis Group 
Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (the “Group Schemes”) for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final 
pensionable pay. Both schemes are closed to future accrual. Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis 
of triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
The defined benefit schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company. The Trustees are 
responsible for running the Group Schemes in accordance with the Group Schemes’ Trust Deed and Rules, which sets out their 
powers. The Trustees of the Group Schemes are required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Group Schemes. 
There is a requirement that one third of the Trustees are nominated by the members of the Group Schemes. The Trustees of the 
pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund. Neither of the Schemes has any 
reimbursement rights. 
The Group’s pension funding policy is to provide sufficient funding, as agreed with the Trustees, to ensure any shortfall/pension 
deficit will be addressed to ensure pension payment made to current and future pensioners will be met.
The investment strategies adopted by the Trustees of the Group Schemes include some exposure to index-linked gilts and 
corporate bonds. These assets are held to provide some protection to the Group Schemes’ funding levels in the event of interest 
rates falling.
Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below:
Asset volatility: the Group Schemes’ defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate 
bond yields; however, the Group Schemes invests significantly in equities. These assets are expected to outperform corporate 
bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes’ defined benefit obligation; 
however, this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes’ bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes’ defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher 
inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation (subject to the appropriate caps in place). The majority of the Group 
Schemes’ assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation 
would also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes’ members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes’ benefits will need to be 
paid for longer, increasing the Group Schemes’ defined benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies:
Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact 
on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
There are three categories of pension scheme members:
Employed deferred members: currently employed by the Company
Deferred members: former employees of the Company
Pensioner members: in receipt of pension.
The defined benefit obligation is valued by projecting the best estimate of future benefit payments (allowing for future salary 
increases for employed deferred members, revaluation to retirement for deferred members and annual pension increases for all 
members) and then discounting to the balance sheet date. The majority of benefits receive increases linked to inflation (subject to a 
cap of no more than 5% p.a.). The valuation method used is known as the Projected Unit Method. The approximate overall duration 
of the Schemes’ defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2014 was 20 years (2013: 20 years). This number can be subdivided 
into the duration related to:
Deferred members: 22 years (2013: 22 years)
Retired members: 13 years (2013: 13 years)
www.informa.com
180 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 CHARGE TO OPERATING PROFIT
The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions was £8.6m (2013: £8.7m). The net pension charge for the 
defined benefit schemes in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year was £0.2m (2013: £0.6m), of which £nil (2013: £nil) 
was charged to operating profit. The Group also operates defined contribution schemes, and contributions charged to the 
Consolidated Income Statement during the year were £8.6m (2013: £8.7m).
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES
Informa Final Salary Scheme
The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years. The result of this valuation determines the level 
of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 
31 March 2011. This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of £9.7m. In respect of the deficit in the Scheme as at 31 March 2011, 
the Group agreed to pay £333,333 by 30 August 2014. The Group was also paying recovery plan contributions of £150,000 p.a. 
in respect of the Achieve UK Learning Pension and Benefits Plan. Following the merger of the Achieve Plan into the Informa Final 
Salary Scheme, in March 2013, the Group will continue to pay an additional £150,000 p.a. into the Scheme until December 2018.
The actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme as at 31 March 2014 is still in progress. The valuation is expected to be 
signed off shortly and at this point it is likely the Company will no longer need to continue paying contributions into the Scheme.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2014 by a qualified independent actuary. The 
Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011. The Group’s contribution over 
the year was £3.2m. The Employer expects to pay £0.2m to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2015 
in respect of the deficit payments.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount 
rate and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions. The assumptions adopted are:
2014 2013
Discount rate 3.6% p.a. 4.6% p.a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 2.2% p.a. 2.7% p.a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – non pensioners 3.1% p.a. 3.5% p.a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – pensioners 3.1% p.a. 3.5% p.a.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £1.8m
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase/decrease by 0.25% Increase/decrease by £4.0m
Rate of mortality Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by £2.2m
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 181
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
39. RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES (CONTINUED)
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES (CONTINUED)
Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years. The result of this valuation determines the level 
of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Taylor & Francis Life Assurance and Pension Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary 
for the Trustees as at 30 September 2011. This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of £2.8m. In respect of the deficit in the 
Scheme as at 30 September 2011, the Group agreed to pay £27 ,833 per month to eliminate the deficit by July 2018.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2014 by a qualified independent actuary. The 
Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011. The Group’s contribution over 
the year was £0.3m. The Employer expects to pay £0.3m to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2015 
in respect of the deficit.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount 
rate and the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions. The assumptions adopted are:
2014 2013
Discount rate 3.6% p.a. 4.6% p.a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 2.2% p.a. 2.7% p.a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – non pensioners 3.1% p.a. 3.5% p.a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – pensioners 3.1% p.a. 3.5% p.a.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance 
Scheme liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £0.4m
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase/decrease by 0.25% Increase/decrease by £0.9m
Rate of mortality Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by £0.7m
www.informa.com
182 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 2.9 5.2
Experience gain 0.3 0.4
Change in demographic actuarial assumptions (0.1) (0.5)
Change in financial actuarial assumptions (11.1) 3.2
Actuarial (loss)/gain (8.0) 8.3
Movement in deficit during the year
Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year (5.4) (17.5)
Contributions 3.5 4.4
Net finance cost (0.2) (0.6)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (8.0) 8.3
Deficit in Scheme at end of the year (10.1) (5.4)
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (112.0) (98.7)
Fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3
Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (10.1) (5.4)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (98.7) (99.3)
Interest cost (4.5) (4.3)
Benefits paid 2.1 1.8
Actuarial (losses)/gains (10.9) 3.1
Closing defined benefit obligation (112.0) (98.7)
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 183
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
39. RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES (CONTINUED)
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES (CONTINUED)
Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (Continued)
Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening fair value of Scheme assets 93.3 81.8
Expected return on Scheme assets 4.3 3.7
Actuarial gains 2.9 5.2
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 3.5 4.4
Benefits paid (2.1) (1.8)
Closing fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3
The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds 
operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, Legal & General Assurance (Pensions Management) Limited, Baring Asset Management 
Limited and Standard Life Investments. The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds 
operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited, 
Standard Life Investments and Schroder Investment Management Limited. The fair value of the assets held and the expected 
rates of return assumed are as follows:
Fair value at
31 December
2014
£m
Fair value at
31 December 
2013
£m
Equities
Taylor & Francis 8.0 7.7
Informa 42.1 40.1
Bonds
Taylor & Francis 8.5 7.2
Informa 10.5 8.8
Cash
Taylor & Francis 0.1 2.0
Informa 1.3 6.9
Property
Taylor & Francis 1.5 1.3
Informa 2.7 2.3
Diversified Growth Fund
Taylor & Francis 4.9 2.8
Informa 22.3 14.2
101.9 93.3
All the assets listed above have a quoted market price in an active market. The Group Schemes’ assets do not include any of the 
Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group. The actual return on plan 
assets was £7 .3m (2013: £8.9m).
www.informa.com
184 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (112.0) (98.7) (99.3) (85.8) (83.6)
Fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3 81.8 73.7 73.1
Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (10.1) (5.4) (17.5) (12.1) (10.5)
Related deferred tax assets 2.1 1.1 4.0 3.0 2.8
Deficit net of deferred tax assets (8.0) (4.3) (13.5) (9.1) (7.7)
Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 0.3 0.4 (0.4) 1.3 2.2
Percentage of Scheme liabilities (%) 0.3 0.4 (0.4) 1.6 2.6
Experience adjustments on Scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 2.9 5.2 2.8 (5.8) 3.6
Percentage of Scheme assets (%) 2.9 5.6 3.5 (7.8) 4.9
Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the main defined benefit schemes, a revised deficit funding plan has been 
agreed with the Trustees to eliminate the deficits in both schemes. The contributions for the ongoing service will be £nil in 2015 
as both schemes are closed to future accrual of benefits. In addition, the contributions paid towards reducing the scheme deficits 
will decrease from £3.5m in 2014 to £0.5m in 2015.
40. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
are not disclosed in this note. The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below. The following 
transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance 
and position of the Group for the year.
TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS
There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and 
shareholdings. For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Company’s Board are not 
regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report 
on pages 99 to 102 and Note 10.
TRANSACTIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES
During the period the Group received revenue of £12,000 (2013: £11,000) from Lloyd’s Maritime Information Services Limited, 
a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of £0.7m (2013: £1.1m) from SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of £nil (2013: £1.8m) from Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited, 
a joint venture.
OTHER RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
At 31 December 2014, the Group has guaranteed the total pension scheme liability of £10.1m (2013: £5.4m).
41. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE
On 15 January 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Megaconvention, Inc., for initial consideration 
of £4.9m and further performance-related consideration estimated at £3.4m payable over two years. The sole event of the 
company is Orlando MegaCon, an enthusiast Consumer show featuring exhibits and content from the sci-fi, horror, anime, 
gaming and TV genres, including merchandise, memorabilia and art.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 185
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  Notes
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 3 3,653.9
3,653.9
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 4 775.2
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2
775.4
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (170.5)
Net current assets 604.9
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 (450.6)
Net assets 3,808.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 0.6
Share premium account 8 204.0
Reserve for shares to be issued 8 1.1
Merger reserve 8 872.9
ESOP Trust shares 8 (0.2)
Profit and loss account 8 2,729.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 3,808.2
These financial statements of this Company registration number 8860726, were approved by the Board of Directors on 
12 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE GARETH WRIGHT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014
www.informa.com
186 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE PERIOD 24 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2014
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
Informa PLC (the “Company”) was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014, as a private company 
limited by shares with the name Informa Limited and re-registered on 14 May 2014 as a public company limited by shares 
called Informa PLC.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW
Informa PLC is the Parent Company of the Informa Group (the “Group”) and its principal activity is to act as the ultimate holding 
company of the Group.
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc (“Old Informa”), the former holding company of the Group, 
and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all 
the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa 
PLC (the “Company”) in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 
share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange and trading in these shares commenced on 30 May 2014.
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (for further analysis refer to the Directors’ 
Report on page 76) and under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”).
The Company’s financial statements are presented in pounds sterling being the Company’s functional currency.
The Directors’ Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Directors’ Remuneration Report disclosures are on pages 73 
to 107 of this report.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss 
account for the period. The Company’s revenue for the period is £nil, profit before tax for the year is £141.6m and profit after 
tax for the year is £141.6m.
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
The Company’s results for the period 24 January to 31 December 2014 are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of Informa PLC, which are publicly available. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing 
a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (Revised 1996) Cash Flow Statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, that transactions with wholly owned 
subsidiaries do not need to be disclosed.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Informa PLC Consolidated Financial Statements contain financial instrument disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures and these would also comply with the disclosures required by FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions provided in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 not to present separate 
financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. Where the recoverable amount of the 
investment is less than the carrying amount, an impairment is recognised.
BANK LOANS
Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
ESOP TRUST SHARES
Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds represent the cost of the Company’s ordinary shares acquired by 
the Employee Share Option Plan (“ESOP”) Trusts in connection within certain of the Company’s employee share schemes.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 187
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE PERIOD 24 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2014
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible (with a maturity of three months or less) to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity-settled share awards 
is measured at the date of grant. The fair value is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are 
considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques. The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching 
Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation 
methodology is considered the most appropriate.
In terms of FRS 20 Share-based Payment, where a parent grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, 
and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, 
the subsidiary is required to record an expense for such compensation, with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as 
a contribution from the parent. Consequently, in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force (“UITF”) 44 FRS 20 (IFRS 2) – Group 
and Treasury Transactions the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the aggregate amount of these 
contributions that have accrued in the period with a corresponding credit to equity shareholders’ funds.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Foreign currency transactions arising from operating activities are translated from local currency into pounds sterling at the 
exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
year end are translated at the period end exchange rate. Foreign currency gains or losses are credited or charged to the profit 
and loss account as they arise.
INTEREST INCOME
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s 
net carrying amount.
INTEREST EXPENSE
Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the profit and 
loss account at a constant rate over the life of the debt.
www.informa.com
188 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 3. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Cost
2014
£m
At 24 January 2014 −
Additions 3,653.9
At 31 December 2014 3,653.9
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement, the Company subscribed to shares in Informa Switzerland Limited (formerly 
Informa plc) (“Old Informa”), a subsidiary undertaking, for £3,500.0m.
On 5 December 2014, the Company entered into a Contribution Agreement with Informa Finance GmbH, a wholly owned 
subsidiary undertaking of Informa Switzerland Limited (formerly Informa plc), and made a capital contribution of USD 240.0m. 
As per the terms of the Contribution Agreement, the Company did not receive any consideration for its capital contribution. 
This resulted in the Company holding an investment in Informa Finance GmbH of £153.0m.
The remaining addition of £0.9m relates to the fair value of the share incentives issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings 
during the year, in accordance with UITF 44 FRS 20 (IFRS 2) – Group and Treasury Transactions.
The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014 which affected the profit or net assets 
of the Company:
Company
Country of 
registration 
and operation Principal activity Ordinary shares held
Informa Switzerland Limited (formerly Informa plc) United Kingdom Holding Company 100%
Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 0%
4. DEBTORS DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2014
£m
Amounts owed from Group undertakings 775.2
5. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2014
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 169.7
Other creditors and accruals 0.8
170.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings falling due within one year are unsecured, interest bearing and repayable on demand.
6. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER ONE YEAR
2014
£m
Bank loans (net of arrangement fees) 450.6
On 23 October 2014, the Company entered into a new five year revolving credit facility for an equivalent of £900.0m, of which 
£455.2m was drawn down at 31 December 2014. The facility matures in October 2019. Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR 
plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 189
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE PERIOD 24 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER 2014
7. SHARE CAPITAL
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc (“Old Informa”), the former holding company of the Group, 
and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all 
the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa 
PLC (the “Company”) in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 
share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014, as a private company limited by shares 
with the name Informa Limited and re-registered on 14 May 2014 as a public company limited by shares called Informa PLC. 
The Company became the Parent Company of the Informa Group and the previous Parent Company, Old Informa, was renamed 
Informa Switzerland Limited.
The Company was incorporated with an issued share capital of £2 divided into two ordinary shares of 100p each which were 
taken by the subscribers and were paid up in full in cash. On 13 May 2014 the two ordinary shares of 100p each were converted 
into two Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each and an additional 49,998 Redeemable Deferred Shares were issued to the 
subscribers. The 50,000 issued Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each were redeemed on 11 June 2014.
On 13 May 2014 one ordinary share of 435p in the Company was issued and subsequently cancelled on 30 May 2014. Under 
the Scheme of Arrangement 603,941,249 ordinary shares of 435p each in the Company were allotted to shareholders on 
30 May 2014.
On 4 June 2014 the nominal value per share of the issued share capital of the Company was reduced from 435p per share 
to 0.1p per share pursuant to sections 645 to 649 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital as at 31 December 2014 amounted to £0.6m. During the period, the Company also issued 45,000,000 ordinary 
shares of 0.1p for consideration of £207 .0m. The share premium (net of transaction costs) is £204.0m as at 31 December 2014.
2014
£m
Issued and fully paid
648,941,249 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 0.6
Number of
shares £m
At 24 January 2014 − −
Scheme of arrangement 603,941,249 0.6
Issued 45,000,000 −
At 31 December 2014 648,941,249 0.6
www.informa.com
190 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 8. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Reserve 
for
shares to
be issued
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
ESOP
Trust
shares
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
Total
£m
Issue of shares under Scheme of Arrangement 2,627.1 − − 872.9 − − 3,500.0
Capital reduction (Note 7) (2,626.5) − − − − 2,626.5 −
Acquisition of ESOP Trust − − − − (0.2) 0.3 0.1
Shares issued (net of transaction costs) − 204.0 − − − − 204.0
Share-based payment charge − − 1.1 − − − 1.1
Profit for the period − − − − − 141.6 141.6
Dividend paid − − − − − (38.6) (38.6)
At 31 December 2014 0.6 204.0 1.1 872.9 (0.2) 2,729.8 3,808.2
The Scheme of Arrangement created share capital of £2,627 .1m and since the investment was held at fair value, a merger 
reserve of £872.9m was recognised.
As at 31 December 2014 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 737 ,272 ordinary shares in the Company at a cost of £737 
and a market value of £3.7m. 737 ,272 shares held by the Employee Share Trust have not been allocated to individuals and 
the remaining shares have been allocated to individuals in accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 93 and 105. Dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Trust are waived.
9. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Details of the share-based payments are disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 11).
10. DIVIDENDS
During the period an interim dividend of £38.6m was paid by the Company. Details of the dividend payments are disclosed 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 15).
11. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There have been no significant events since the reporting date.
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 191
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  With the re-domicile back to the UK this year, the Group has applied the audit exemption allowed under section 479A–479C of the 
Companies Act 2006. The changes to company audit and reporting requirements remove the requirement for UK subsidiaries to 
be audited, if the requirements in section 479A–479C of the Companies Act 2006 are met.
The list below provides those UK subsidiaries where the Group has taken the audit exemption for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
Audit exempt companies Registration numbers
Agra Informa Limited 00746465
Cityscape Exhibitions Limited 08790203
IBC (Ten) Limited 01844717
IBC (Twelve) Limited 03007085
IBC Fourteen Limited 03119071
IIR (U.K. Holdings) Limited 02748477
IIR Management Limited 02922734
Informa Finance UK Limited 08774672
Informa Finance USA Limited 08940353
Informa Holdings Limited 03849198
Informa Overseas Investments Limited 05845568
Informa Six Limited 04606229
Informa Three Limited 04595951
Routledge Books Limited 03177762
AUDIT EXEMPTION
www.informa.com
192 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
2014
£m
2013²
£m
2012²
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Results from continuing operations
Revenue 1,137.0 1,130.0 1,111.1 1,140.0 1,096.1
Adjusted operating profit 334.1 334.7 330.5 313.3 290.0
Statutory operating (loss)/profit (2.4) 146.0 127.8 129.9 162.7
Statutory (loss)/profit before tax (31.2) 115.4 70.3 88.2 123.7
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (52.4) (6.5) 90.6 75.4 98.9
Assets employed
1
Non-current assets 2,578.3 2,432.6 2,641.4 2,755.6 2,820.9
Current assets 306.2 279.6 292.2 320.1 299.5
Non-current liabilities (994.5) (967.6) (1,016.4) (1,003.0) (867.8)
Current liabilities (658.3) (553.5) (593.5) (692.3) (851.7)
Net assets 1,231.7 1,191.1 1,323.7 1,380.4 1,400.9
Financed by
1
Equity 1,230.2 1,190.1 1,323.7 1,382.1 1,400.9
Non-controlling interest 1.5 1.0 − (1.7) −
1,231.7 1,191.1 1,323.7 1,380.4 1,400.9
Key statistics (in pence) from continuing operations
Earnings per share (8.6) 17.1 15.0 12.5 16.5
Diluted earnings per share (8.6) 17.1 15.0 12.5 16.5
Adjusted earnings per share 40.3 40.1 37.7 36.1 32.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 40.3 40.1 37.6 36.0 32.8
1 
The numbers reported include continuing and discontinued operations.
2 
Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures (see Note 5).
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 193
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  NOTICE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected in such 
forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a 
number of risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as 
reflected in such forward-looking statements. The terms “expect”, “should be”, “will be” and similar expressions are intended to 
identify forward-looking statements. Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ from those foreseen in forward-looking 
statements include, but are not limited to, those identified under “Principal Risks Factors” on pages 62 to 65 of this Annual Report. 
The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of publication of this Annual Report. 
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release 
publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change 
in the Group’s expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
WEBSITE
Informa’s website www.informa.com gives additional information on the Group. Information made available on the website 
does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
LEGAL NOTICE
www.informa.com
194 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 REGISTRARS 
All general enquiries concerning holdings of ordinary shares in Informa PLC should be addressed to our registrars, 
Computershare Investor Services PLC (“Computershare”):
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road 
Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Helpline: +44 (0)870 707 1679 
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk 
The shareholder helpline is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
To access your shareholding details online, go to www.investorcentre.co.uk. To register to use the website, you will  
need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate or dividend voucher.
The website enables you to:
view and manage all of your shareholdings; 
register for electronic communications; 
buy and sell shares online with the dealing service; and
deal with other matters such as a change of address, transferring shares or replacing a lost certificate.
DIVIDEND
Informa usually pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each year. Shareholders can arrange for dividends to be paid by 
mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL -IP (Bankers’ Automated Clearing Services) 
system. You can register your bank or building society details online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or contact Computershare 
for a dividend mandate form.
If you wish receive your dividends in a different currency, you will need to register for the global payments service provided 
by Computershare. Further information can be found on the Computershare website.
Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”). For further details on the DRIP , including terms and conditions, you should contact Computershare 
or visit their website.
SHARE DEALING
If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, they can do so by calling the Company’s stockbrokers, Equiniti Financial 
Services Limited on 0808 208 4433. Instructions on how to deal will be provided over the phone. The helpline is open 8.00 am 
to 4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, except bank holidays.
CREST ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING
The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
SHAREGIFT
ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686) is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers 
of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own. ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the 
ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities. Over £14m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,700 different 
UK charities. Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, www.ShareGift.org or by calling 020 7930 3737 .
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 195
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
As part of Informa’s Corporate Social Responsibility programme, and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our 
environmental impact, we offer all shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications. For further 
information please visit www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms.
PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT FROM SHARE REGISTER FRAUD
Over the last few years a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls 
or correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from brokers who target existing shareholders offering to 
sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. They can be extremely persuasive and very 
persistent. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) before getting involved. You can check 
at www.fca.org.uk.
Report the matter to the FCA by completing an online form at www.fca.org.uk. 
Inform Computershare on 0870 707 1679.
TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHAREHOLDING
Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from Computershare in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
If you change address, inform Computershare. If you receive a letter from Computershare regarding a change of address 
and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately.
Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank. If you change your 
bank account, inform Computershare of the details of your new account. Respond to any letters Computershare send 
to you about this.
If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
ADR PROGRAMME
On 1 July 2013, Informa established a Level I American Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme with BNY Mellon, the global leader 
in investment management and investment services. Each Informa ADR represents two ordinary shares and trades on the OTC 
(over-the-counter) market in the US under the symbol “IFJPY” (ISIN US45672B2060). Investors can find information on Informa’s 
ADRs on www.bnymellon.com/dr.
Informa’s ordinary shares continue to trade on the Premium Main Market of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) under the symbol 
“INF” (ISIN: GB00BMJ6DW54).
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
196 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Designed and produced by Luminous 
www.luminous.co.uk
Global Exhibitions photography courtesy of  
Arab Health. Other photography by Philip Gatward  
and Simon Jarratt.
Illustrations by Brett Ryder and Aude Van Ryn.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint 
using vegetable inks and  
their  and 
environmental printing 
technology. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company and 
are ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, 
EMAS and Forest Stewardship 
Council
®
 (FSC) certified.
This report is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper 
produced using wood fibre from fully sustainable 
forests with FSC
®
 certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free, and the 
manufacturing mill is ISO 14001 and FSC
®
 certified. Our current registered  
office address is:
37-41 Mortimer Street
London W1W 7RE
t: +44 (0)20 7017 5000
e: info@informa.com
www.informa.com
 
From the 26th May 2015 
this will change to:
5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG
t: +44 (0)20 7017 5000
e: info@informa.com
www.informa.com
UNDERSTANDING INFORMA   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
