 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
IN TOUCH
_ IN TOUCH_
Imagine a communications company  
that empowers global, mobile connectivity  
in the most remote locations on earth; that 
enables economic, social and cultural change;  
that facilitates business and trade, but also 
humanitarian efforts, e-learning and e-health 
initiatives in previously unreachable locations.  
Inmarsat makes this a reality. You can’t touch  
our connectivity, but it touches all of us.
Front Cover image: Brian Carlin/T eam Vestas Wind/Volvo Ocean Race BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
>  Global Xpress (GX) regional 
commercial services  
started on Inmarsat-5 F1  
on 1 July 2014 
>  Inmarsat-5 F2 launched 
successfully on 1 February 
2015
CONTENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
01 2014 Highlights
02 Inmarsat’ s Business Units
10 At a glance
12  Chairman’ s review
STRATEGY
14 CEO’ s 2014 review
20 Our markets
22  Our strategy
24 Business model
26 Risk management
29 Business review
38 CFO’ s 2014 Financial Review
44 Corporate Social  Responsibility
GOVERNANCE
50 Board of Directors
53 Report of the Directors
56 Corporate Governance
66 Remuneration Report
83  Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
84  Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Inmarsat plc 
88 Consolidated Income Statement
88  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
89 Consolidated Balance Sheet
90  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
91 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
92  Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
131 Company Balance Sheet
132 Company Cash Flow Statement
132  Company Statement of Changes  
in Equity
133  Notes to the Financial Statements
134 Glossary of terms
136 Additional information
WHOLESALE MSS REVENUE (US$m)
791.4
PROFIT AFTER TAX (US$m)
341.1
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (¢ (US$))
48.94
inmarsat.com
Download the Inmarsat App to experience 
more. Where you see this icon, scan the 
image to view video content.
2014
791.4
2013
762.4
2012
738.0
2014
341.1
2013
102.6
2012
217.4
2014
48.94
2013
46.61
2012
44.39
>  European Aviation Network 
programme announced; 
ﬁrst licences for the  
service acquired
>  Acquisition of Globe 
Wireless, disposal of retail 
energy-related assets and 
19% stake in SkyWave
>  Issue of $1 billion of 4.875% 
Senior Notes due 2022
>  Innovative products and 
services launched across  
all Business Units 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 1 2 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 15 SUCCESSFUL 
SATELLITE 
LAUNCHES
IN TOUCH_
THROUGHOUT THE JOURNEY
We offer the maritime world 
reliable satellite connectivity and 
technology suites that optimise 
their entire operation. Our services 
are secure and extend far beyond 
the reach of land-based networks 
so everyone, not only commercial 
cargo and coastal merchant 
vessels, can rely on our safety 
services to contact rescue  
teams quickly .
MARITIME
Read more on page 30.
3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 11 SATELLITES IN 
GEOSTATIONARY 
ORBIT
IN TOUCH_
WITH THE WIDER WORLD
We support journalists reporting 
breaking news live, humanitarian 
agencies coordinating relief 
efforts when disaster strikes,  
and remote workers in industries 
such as oil and gas, construction 
and transportation. They have  
all come to rely on our services  
for dependable, secure 
communications in locations  
with unreliable or non-existent 
telecoms networks.
ENTERPRISE
Read more on page 33.
4 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 6 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 10 SATELLITE  
ACCESS STATIONS
IN TOUCH_
WHEN IT MATTERS
We ensure pilots can stay in 
contact with air trafﬁc control, 
receive real-time weather 
information, access the most 
fuel-efﬁcient oceanic ﬂight  
paths, while data on the aircraft’ s 
position and maintenance  
status is sent to ground staff  
to improve safety and efﬁciency 
for airlines wherever they ﬂy .
Inmarsat was the ﬁrst operator  
to comply with the International 
Civil Aviation Organization’ s 
requirements for global  
safety communications.
AVIATION
Read more on page 34.
7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 24/7 SUPPORT
IN TOUCH_
WITH MAJOR EVENTS 
Our Government businesses  
are trusted partners to the US 
Government and over 100 nations 
around the world, providing state-
of-the-art satellite services that 
offer mission-critical voice, video 
and data communications to 
support the broadest range of 
national security, intelligence, 
public safety, health and education 
services. Whether responding to  
a humanitarian crisis or natural 
disaster, peace-keeping in war-
torn states or protecting national 
borders, our mission is to deliver 
secure connectivity when and 
where it’ s needed.
GOVERNMENT
Read more on page 37.
8 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 9 MARITIME ENTERPRISE
Inmarsat is the leading provider of global, mobile satellite 
communications services. On land, at sea and in the air,  
the Company serves Government, Commercial and NGO 
customers on every continent, providing highly reliable 
broadband data and voice connectivity services in regions 
where local network connectivity is unreliable or unavailable.
Through Inmarsat’s satellites, users can send data or make 
voice calls while outside the coverage of any terrestrial 
network. This vital capability has placed us at the heart of 
maritime and aviation safety services and positioned us at  
the forefront of satellite connectivity services for merchant 
shipping, air transport, news broadcast, energy and utilities 
companies, mining businesses and humanitarian aid  
agencies – to name but a few.
OUR CORPORATE VALUES
PASSION
 > Pride in what we do
 > A commitment to excel
 > Commitment to diversity
 > Determination to deliver
OPENNESS
 > Open to ideas
 > Open to cultures and personalities
 > Open to accountability
 > Open to partnering
 > Open to a team approach
MARKET-DRIVEN
 > Innovation rooted in customer needs
 > Always listening
 > Proactive and adaptable
 > Delivering enduring value
 > Providing dependability
ENTERPRISING
 > Agile and ﬂexible
 > Decisive
 > Accountable
TOTAL 2014 REVENUE
$1,285.9m
Inmarsat is the leader in global mobile satellite communications for the  
maritime industry . Thousands of vessels rely on our unrivalled end-to-end 
service availability and coverage for operational communications, crew welfare 
and safety services. In the era of the ‘smart vessel’, Inmarsat is working with its 
partners and the industry to drive the adoption of new technologies, which  
help shipping companies to run a more efﬁcient and cost-effective operation  
– saving fuel, time, money and contributing to enhanced crew morale.
Inmarsat provides the widest portfolio of global voice, broadband data, M2M  
and value-added services in the market. From oil and gas engineers carrying out 
remote diagnostics on an oil wellhead, to journalists reporting live with breaking 
news, our services offer a compelling proposition for businesses requiring 
‘must-have’ remote and mobile connectivity . Inmarsat continues to expand its 
ecosystem of partners, opening up new markets to the beneﬁts of reliable, robust 
satellite communications, ranging from e-health and e-learning to the general 
business traveller requiring guaranteed connectivity .
 
+13.5%
REVENUE INCLUDING ACQUISITION OF GLOBE WIRELESS
 
292,000
INMARSA T CAP ABLE M2M TERMINALS
FLEETBROADBAND TERMINALS
Learn more about Maritime on page 30 Learn more about Enterprise on page 33
2013
2014
35,888
40,469 +13%
2013
2014
ACTIVATED ISATPHONES
94,000
+23% 115,500
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 10 10 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
AT A GLANCE
POWERING GLOBAL  
CONNECTIVITY INMARSAT-3
Launched  
1996-98
INMARSAT-4
Launched  
2005-08
INMARSAT-4A
Launched  
July 2013
INMARSAT-5 F1
Launched 
December 2013
INMARSAT-5 F2 
Launched  
February 2015
1998 2008 2013 2014 2015 2018 2023 2028 2029 2030
AVIATION GOVERNMENT
OUR LONG-TERM INVESTMENT FOR FUTURE GROWTH
Inmarsat has launched 15 satellites during the last 25 years and has amassed  
over 200 satellite years of operational experience during this period. 11 of these 
satellites are operational today .
Expected lifespan 
of current ﬂeet
Inmarsat has been providing connectivity and safety services to the aviation 
community for over 20 years. For passengers, Inmarsat enables them to make phone 
calls and access the internet in the air , just as they would on the ground. For ﬂight 
crew, Inmarsat ensures they can stay in contact with air trafﬁc control, receive 
real-time weather information, access the most fuel-efﬁcient oceanic ﬂight paths, 
and send the aircraft’ s position and maintenance status to ground staff. Inmarsat’ s 
existing satellite networks enable crucial safety services, including ﬂight tracking, which 
are fundamental to safe and efﬁcient operation of ﬂights throughout the world.
Inmarsat is a trusted partner for governments, meeting the need for voice, data 
and video services which is globally available, entirely reliable and fully secure. 
Whether a military commander on operations, a government ofﬁcial responding 
to a local emergency or a head of state conducting international affairs, 
Inmarsat provides them with essential access to voice and broadband data, 
where and when they need it.
 
+37 .7%
REVENUE FROM BOTH BUSINESS A VIA TION  
AND COMMERCIAL AIR TRANSPORT
Learn more about Aviation on page 34 Learn more about Government on page 37
 
>60%
MSS OPERA TORS GOVERNMENT/MILIT ARY MARKET SHARE 2014
Northern Sky Research (NSR)
+24
2013
2014
SWIFTBROADBAND ACTIVE SIMS NEW COUNTRIES OPENED UP SINCE 2012
4,060
+33% 5,400
11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
Inmarsat continues to build on our strengths as  
a trusted provider of mobile satellite services to 
customers who have ‘mission critical’ connectivity 
needs, where terrestrial wireless networks are not 
present, or are challenged. The niche, which we  
have served now for 35 years, continues to grow as 
connections in our world become more and more 
essential for our business and personal lives. Despite 
the challenges presented by government spending 
cutbacks by some of our biggest governmental 
customers, we have been able to grow in other 
sectors, such as aviation and maritime. This clearly 
demonstrates the strength of our diverse business 
as individual market trends shift.
We strongly believe in the continued growth in global 
connectivity, particularly in remote environments. 
Therefore we have focused our investment in new 
products, services and platforms that address this 
trend. As a result, we are on the verge of entering  
a new era with the launch of our new Inmarsat-5 
global satellite constellation, a $1.6 billion, ﬁve- 
year investment programme which will support our 
revolutionary high-throughput mobile broadband 
service, Global Xpress (GX). With the launch of the 
third satellite in the programme just around the 
corner to deliver seamless global coverage, we will 
offer our customers truly revolutionary broadband 
connectivity on land, sea and air across the globe. 
For our customers, this takes their mobile satellite 
connectivity to the next generation and offers 
capabilities in these untethered environments to a 
place which was unimaginable only a decade ago.
On the back of these investments, we’ve evolved a 
business structure to better align ourselves with our 
distribution partners. As part of a broad partnership 
arrangement to serve oil and gas customers, we 
divested our interests in the oil and gas sector to  
our new partner, RigNet, a rapidly growing major 
player in this market. At the start of 2014 we 
purchased Globe Wireless, one of the major 
communications applications providers to the 
maritime world. We did this to enhance our capability 
to seamlessly work with our distribution partners and 
customers as they migrate to new, more advanced 
maritime broadband platforms. In addition, we 
announced a new programme to develop Europe’ s 
ﬁrst hybrid satellite air to ground network using  
the S-band authorisation we were awarded by the 
European Union a few years ago. We also sold our 
shareholding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM and have  
as a consequence enhanced our relationship with 
them for machine-to-machine (M2M) opportunities. 
More details on our strategy are contained in  
Rupert Pearce’ s CEO section.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR  
FOR INMARSAT :
 > BUILT ON OUR REPUTATION AS  
A TRUSTED PROVIDER
 > CONTINUED GROWTH AND INVESTMENT
 > CLOSEL Y ALIGNED OURSELVES WITH 
OUR DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS
 >  MAINTAINED THE HIGHEST LEVELS  
OF GOVERNANCE
 > CONTINUED FOCUS ON PROVISION OF 
SAFETY SERVICES: ON LAND, AT SEA  
OR IN THE AIR
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 12
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
CONTINUED GROWTH W e are also pleased to announce that we increased 
our dividend for the ninth consecutive year. We  
have now delivered dividend increases every year 
since we listed on the London Stock Exchange in 
2005. The ﬁnal dividend for the year is 30.26 cents 
(US$) per share, which is a 5% increase on last year. 
Our stated intent to deliver sustainable dividend 
increases continues to deliver value for our 
shareholders even through the peak of intensive 
investment cycles.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
Y our Board continues to add value to the Company 
by bringing diverse experience, views and expertise 
to the boardroom. Many of our Board members 
joined at the time of the IPO in 2005 and therefore 
know our complex business well, yet they remain 
clearly independent. We have though started the 
process of bringing in new members to the Board, 
maintaining the strength of thinking and strategic 
contribution at the Board table. In 2014 we added 
(Ret.) General C. Robert Kehler to the Board, who 
brings a global perspective on our government 
customer needs. In addition, we’ve announced the 
addition of Rob Ruijter as a Non-Executive Director, 
who brings a wealth of global ﬁnancial management 
experience, and more recently, we announced that 
Dr Hamadoun T ouré would be joining our Board.  
Dr T ouré has spent the last eight years as the Secretary 
General of the International T elecommunications 
Union and is also deeply experienced in the global 
satellite and space industries. Simon Bax, who joined 
our Board in 2013, will take on the chairmanship of 
our Remuneration Committee in May . Stephen 
Davidson, the current chairman, will remain on the 
Committee and continue as a Director and we thank 
him for his many years of diligent service in this  
vital role for us.
As this evolution of the Board membership  
occurs, we are focused on maintaining continuity  
in understanding the business of the Board, while  
at the same time bringing in new and diverse points 
of view. In addition, we are maintaining the highest 
standards of independent governance. It is a Board 
that contributes greatly to the business and it is  
a privilege to work with them all.
We conducted an internal evaluation of the  
Board during 2014 and can report, while there are 
always areas to improve, your Board is functioning 
effectively . Our Executive Management team 
continues to evolve and perform well. 
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, leads the Company, as he 
has for three years now, while I have stepped back 
into a Non-Executive role as Chairman. We are 
pleased that T ony Bates joined us as CFO and an 
Executive Director during the year. T ony has already 
made a signiﬁcant contribution to the running of the 
Company and we are beneﬁting from his wealth of 
sector experience, both in ﬁnance and operations. 
PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY
This year was marked by a tragic event, in which 
Inmarsat played a quite visible role: the loss of 
Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370. First, our deepest 
condolences go out to the families and friends of 
those who lost loved ones. Due to the highly unusual 
set of events, that have yet to be fully explained, 
Inmarsat was put in the role of providing data, to help 
locate the aircraft, to the government authorities  
in charge of the investigation and now search. 
Inmarsat was created 35 years ago by the UN to 
provide safety services at sea, which evolved to 
safety services in the air as well. We take this global 
public service seriously and we are dedicated to 
providing it. We are proud of the work our teams 
have done to support the efforts to locate the 
missing aircraft and we hope it will, in some way, 
contribute to determining its location, helping  
bring closure to the families involved.
Looking forward, Inmarsat is working hard with the 
global, regional and national aviation authorities,  
to improve the capabilities and standards for 
aviation safety . This involves not only ﬂight tracking, 
but also real-time ﬂight diagnostics, black box over 
the air transmissions (black box in the cloud) and 
many other potential enhancements. Most of  
these capabilities can be enabled using the existing 
communications systems on aircraft, particularly  
on long haul commercial aircraft, in which the vast 
majority already have installed Inmarsat satellite 
services. Let us hope that this tragedy is a catalyst  
to taking ﬂight safety, which is already at a high level, 
to an even higher level of capability for the future.
Our commitment to safety in these remote 
environments remains strong as we invest in new 
safety services. As the only certiﬁed GMDSS (Global 
Maritime Distress Safety Service) provider, we are 
moving forward with plans for how we receive safety 
certiﬁcation for the next generation of Inmarsat 
services. This will assure the mariner that we have 
invested in maritime safety services capabilities  
for many years to come.
In addition, Inmarsat continues to contribute to 
emergency service responders globally . We support, 
ﬁnancially, and with the provision of terminals, 
Télécoms Sans Frontières and the International 
T elecommunications Union (ITU) programmes,  
which provide telecoms connectivity for aid agencies 
and stricken people in times of both human and 
natural disasters. 
Our work with national and local governments 
globally also continues to expand, as the importance 
of having mobile satellite connectivity in situations 
where the terrestrial networks are either taken out of 
service, or congested, becomes seen as an essential 
element of local disaster planning and response.
SUMMARY
In summary, 2014 was another successful year for 
Inmarsat. With the commencement of regional 
Global Xpress services, and a host of new service 
offerings on our existing L-band satellite 
constellations, we are better positioned than ever  
to continue as a leader in providing mobile and 
portable connectivity on land, at sea and in the air. 
We are positioned to grow further as we leverage 
future opportunities resulting from the signiﬁcant 
investments we have made.
We would also like to thank our staff globally for  
their dedication and hard work that has allowed us  
to deliver another year of market-leading quality 
services for our partners and customers. We also 
value the continued support from our shareholders 
and look forward to continuing to deliver value  
to them over the coming years.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
5 March 2015
At the start of 2014  
we purchased Globe 
Wireless, one of the 
major communications 
applications providers  
to the maritime world. 
Looking forward, 
Inmarsat is working  
hard with the global, 
regional and national 
aviation authorities, to 
improve the capabilities  
and standards for  
aviation safety. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
I am pleased with the overall performance of the 
business in 2014, as we met our ﬁnancial targets  
for the year at the same time as continuing to 
progress several key innovation programmes that 
will play a profound role in our future accelerated 
growth plans. 2014 was a year of transition, en route 
to the global launch of our revolutionary new 
Inmarsat-5 network. We delivered revenue growth  
of 1.9% and EBITDA growth of 8% which was a  
solid achievement.
 > Wholesale Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) 
revenue grew year-on-year 
 > Global Xpress (GX) commercial services started 
on Inmarsat-5 F1, our ﬁrst Inmarsat-5 satellite
 > Inmarsat-5 F2 launched successfully on  
1 February 2015
 > European Aviation Network programme was 
announced and the ﬁrst MSS and complementary 
ground component licences were acquired
 > Integration of Globe Wireless business within  
our Maritime Business Unit has gone well 
 > Disposals of key assets have been handled  
well with no impact on customers
 > Innovative products and services launched 
across all Business Units 
The details of the ﬁnancial performance for  
each of the Business Unit sectors, and our Central 
Services sector (which covers all other parts of the 
business) is provided in the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’ s 
review of the year. In summary, we saw positive 
revenue contributions from our Maritime, Enterprise 
and Aviation businesses, plus a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
contribution from LightSquared, reﬂected in overall 
total revenue growth. This was offset by a decline  
in Government revenues – albeit that growing 
contributions from our Global Government business 
stemmed in part the continuing revenue reduction  
in our US Government business.
In May 2014 we raised $1bn on the bond market, 
which allowed us to review our borrowing 
arrangements and put in place cheaper funding.  
We were able to complete the bond transaction 
quickly and successfully, reﬂecting the positive way 
Inmarsat is viewed by ﬁnancial institutions. 
A signiﬁcant contributor to revenues and proﬁtability 
in 2014 was our collaboration with LightSquared. 
Having restarted payments to us under our existing 
cooperation agreement with them during 2014, 
LightSquared delivered revenues of $75.4m in 2014 
almost all of which ﬂows to EBITDA. However, at the 
time of writing, LightSquared remains in Chapter 11 
bankruptcy in the US and there can be no assurance 
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER
OUR INVESTMENTS ALLOW US TO  
GROW THROUGH:
 > MAJOR INNOV ATIONS ARE KEY TO 
ACCELERATED GROWTH
 > INVESTMENT SUPPORTING PRODUCT 
AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT
 > ENHANCING GROWTH THROUGH 
DIVERSIFICATION AND GEOGRAPHIC 
EXPANSION
 > STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL 
CHANNEL WITH NEW PARTNERSHIPS
 > EMBRACING ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE
A glossary can be found on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW
DRIVING SUCCESS  
THROUGH INNOV A TION that further payments will be received from them 
under this agreement. We remain fully committed  
to supporting LightSquared under the terms of our 
agreement with them. 
 
Later in the Annual Report on pages 20 and 21,  
we lay out details of the markets we operate in,  
the changes we are seeing in how we plan for our 
business growth and I also summarise our strategy 
and key risks within our operations. 
Overall the business has met its objectives 
throughout the year and my review will reﬂect on  
the different activities we undertook and also how 
the contribution of our staff is critical to our success. 
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
It has been a very demanding year from an 
infrastructure perspective, as we continue to invest 
heavily in transformational future growth. Exciting 
news in 2014 was the successful deployment of our 
ﬁrst Inmarsat-5 satellite, called Inmarsat-5 F1 or I-5 
F1, which was launched in December 2013; followed 
by the successful launch of our second Inmarsat-5 
satellite, I-5 F2, on 1 February 2015. We were 
delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, which we 
have commissioned for the ﬁrst three Inmarsat-5 
ﬂights, has now successfully delivered into orbit  
two of the three Inmarsat-5 satellites needed  
to ensure seamless global coverage for our 
revolutionary high-throughput services. We are 
planning for the launch of Inmarsat-5 F3 to take 
place in Q2 2015.
I-5 F1 entered regional commercial service mid-way 
during 2014 - meaning that, from the Western coast 
of Africa to the middle of Australia, we are now able 
to offer Global Xpress (GX) services, although not 
yet across our full range of planned service offerings. 
I am delighted to report that Global Xpress is working 
well, with ultra-fast data speeds even to very small 
antenna and rain fade resilience at or better than 
Ku-band competitors. This successful provision of 
service is a signiﬁcant risk retirement on one part  
of the GX programme and means that we can look 
forward with conﬁdence to I-5 F2, also progressing 
safely through its deployment and test stages with a 
view to entering full commercial service in Q2 2015. 
We also have a fourth Inmarsat-5 satellite under 
construction (I-5 F4), due to be delivered in mid 
2016 and we secured a launch option for this 
satellite with SpaceX, a new launch provider for us. 
This substantially de-risks the possibility of damage  
to the GX programme by a launch failure of I-5 F3, 
as I-5 F4 could replace it within roughly a year and  
it can provide us with additional capacity for future 
enhanced growth when we need it. We are already 
developing some incremental business opportunities 
for I-5 F4 to support its launch as an additional 
satellite in the event of a successful I-5 F3 launch. 
In addition to the GX satellite launch and operation 
activities, we enhanced our satellite capabilities.  
We brought Alphasat into service, supporting  
our handheld GSPS services in our most heavily 
trafﬁcked satellite region. Alphasat is Europe’ s most 
sophisticated telecommunications satellite and will 
be of signiﬁcant beneﬁt to us in carrying our L-band 
service trafﬁc in the future and providing redundancy 
for the Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation. 
We also ordered a new satellite, Europasat,  
in partnership with HellasSat. It will deliver new 
S-band services across the European Union. We 
announced in May 2014 the development of a highly 
innovative Air to Ground network, to be integrated with 
Europasat’ s satellite capabilities to target the emerging 
European aviation passenger connectivity markets 
– a key strategic initiative for us. W e will be a leader in 
developing an integrated hybrid satellite-terrestrial 
network for broadband services.
Supporting our new satellite construction 
programmes, we signed an innovative three satellite 
launch deal with SpaceX, the new and rapidly 
emerging launch services company . This positions 
Inmarsat in the vanguard for the use of the new 
Falcon Heavy rocket, which we can use for the 
Inmarsat-5, and the Inmarsat-6 programme. 
Our work is not only about launching and managing 
satellites, it is also about safely decommissioning 
them when they come to their end of life. In 2014  
we successfully deorbited the ﬁnal one of our 
Inmarsat-2 satellites. Once again, this ﬁnal satellite 
in the Inmarsat-2 constellation performed superbly 
throughout its life, operating for more than twice its 
design life, for over 20 years. 
Having a reliable satellite and network capability 
which consistently exceeds 99.9% availability, gives 
us the comfort that our partners and customers  
can rely on us, wherever they are and in whatever 
circumstance they need communications 
connectivity . 
We were delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, 
which we have commissioned for the ﬁrst three 
Inmarsat-5 ﬂights, has now successfully delivered 
into orbit two of the three Inmarsat-5s needed  
to ensure seamless global coverage for our 
revolutionary high-throughput services.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 15 GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION
We increased the pace of product and service 
innovation in 2014 and this focus has continued  
into 2015 when we held our ﬁrst successful Inmarsat 
Developers Conference in January . We are working 
closely with our traditional partners, as well as some 
new technology partners. In 2014 we launched 
several important new products and services which  
we expect to be signiﬁcant contributors to our  
future growth, including: 
 > IsatPhone 2, our latest high-quality satphone  
that we expect to maintain our strong position  
in the handheld market; 
 > FleetOne, a major broadband product launch  
into the ﬁshing, leisure and coastal merchant 
maritime markets, which we believe is a new 
market opportunity for us; 
 > IsatHub, the ﬁrst step in the reinvention of the 
BGAN product platform, delivering smartphone 
coverage extension for voice and data services  
at low cost; 
 > BGAN HDR, taking the BGAN offering up to new 
data speeds, of particular signiﬁcance for Media, 
Government and high-end Enterprise customers; 
 > Low-proﬁle BGAN , offering a highly-rugged, 
discreet BGAN deployment for security and 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 
(ISR) needs; 
 > L -TAC, a hugely innovative way in which we can 
re-purpose our L -band network to support 
thousands of UHF radios already deployed in  
the ﬁeld requiring extension of coverage or 
increased network capacity; and
 > Fleet Media, an innovative way of distributing 
entertainment content (movies, TV shows,  
sports and news) to ships‘ crews. 
We also have products which have been developed 
for use on our GX Ka-band satellites across all  
our varying services – on land, at sea and in the  
air. Government customers have been using GX 
terminals since mid-2014 and other users have been 
coming on-stream in early 2015. We are delighted 
with the collaboration and efforts of our Value Added 
Manufacturing partners for their tireless work with us 
over the last 12 months. 
I am very proud of our achievements in 2014  
and already in 2015 we have really increased the 
pace of our product and service innovation. Success 
will be measured by our relationships and ability to 
work closely and collaboratively with Value Added 
Manufacturers and innovators who are committed, 
agile, inventive and far-sighted. 
GROWTH THROUGH GEOGRAPHIC 
EXPANSION
It is vital to create new growth opportunities through 
sustained innovation; however we can also deliver 
enhanced growth and diversiﬁcation rapidly through 
expanding geographic access to our services. 
We opened a brand new GSPS gateway and BGAN 
SAS in China at the end of 2013 and these facilities 
became fully operational during 2014. This was the 
culmination of years of work to deliver a fully-open 
market for our services in China and we worked 
closely with our local partners to make this a reality . 
We believe there are growing revenue opportunities 
in China.
We are working closely with one of our key partners  
in Russia to assist it in progressing its plans to  
build BGAN ground infrastructure to access and 
terminate our services in Russia. We hope that their 
plans will mature during 2015 and provide future 
additional revenue opportunities through opening 
up hitherto closed markets. 
 
Elsewhere, our internationalisation programme – 
driven by our Global Government group, but  
also rapidly driving growth opportunities for our 
Enterprise team too – is nearly at the end of a  
three-year transformation programme to rebalance 
our government and commercial land activities into 
new and exciting growth markets. We are now 
operating for the ﬁrst time, or have substantially 
enlarged our presence in more than 30 countries 
including Brazil, China, Colombia, Israel, Kazakhstan, 
Oman, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the Scandinavian 
region and Turkey .
T ogether, these ventures are demonstrating 
excellent pipeline growth, so we are optimistic  
that we can achieve revenue growth through 
geographic expansion. 
GROWTH THROUGH CHANNEL 
DEVELOPMENT
A key goal of ours is to support our growth ambitions 
through a strong and positive relationship with our 
global channel partners. 
W e added several important new partners during 
2014 including RigNet, the leading Energy satcoms 
connectivity player , ORBCOMM, the leading M2M 
connectivity platform operator , and Swank/NT Digital 
as the master distributor for our new Fleet Media 
content offering. These new relationships provide an 
important extension to our global coverage and to 
our product and service capabilities. W e also beneﬁt 
from having relationships with highly capable, 
specialist partners to help us in certain geographies 
where they have local knowledge. 
A focus for us over the last year in particular has been 
to ensure we are ready for entry into commercial 
service of our Global Xpress service and to do this 
effectively , we need to have appointed respected  
and capable partners. So far , we have appointed  
27 GX V alue Added Resellers (V ARs) across all our 
Business Units, representing an incredibly powerful 
roster of launch partners for this new service. 
A key goal of ours is to support our growth 
ambitions through a strong and positive  
relationship with our global channel partners. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 16
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
In recent years we have embraced signiﬁcant 
organisational change in order to be a more agile 
and fast-moving business. Over the last 12 months 
we have created a new Aviation Business Unit which 
is led today by Leo Mondale who has been with the 
Company for 10 years. As part of our management 
succession planning which we review with the 
Inmarsat Board on an annual basis, I am delighted 
that we were able to promote from within to move 
Ronald Spithout from President of our Enterprise 
Business Unit to become President of our Maritime 
Business Unit and we promoted Greg Ewert  
who joined Inmarsat three years ago to head  
the Enterprise Business Unit. Another internal 
appointment was Michele Franci becoming  
our Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer. 
Two senior hires from outside the Company were the 
appointments of T ony Bates as our Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer in June 2014 and Miriam Murphy who joined 
as Group General Counsel in September 2014. Both 
these executives are experienced professionals and 
I’m delighted they’ve chosen to join Inmarsat. We will 
beneﬁt greatly from their experience. I am delighted 
at how the senior management team has responded 
to the new challenges I’ve asked them to manage 
and I believe the business is well led with the 
12-strong Executive team we have in place.
We also undertook a series of internal initiatives  
to improve in many ways how we work and function 
together; the actions in 2014 are termed our  
‘Y ear of Engagement’ and those in 2015 our  
’Y ear of Enablement’. 
We had a staff survey in February 2014 which 
was completed by 94% of our staff – a response  
rate which is outstanding. In the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) section on pages 45 and 46 
more information is provided on the feedback we 
received from the survey and the actions we took. 
One key indicator was the pride staff feel working  
at Inmarsat. One element of the survey was around 
pay for staff and during 2014 we completed a global 
salary benchmarking review and as a consequence 
committed more than was budgeted to correct 
salaries for staff to take them to more competitive 
levels. After a year where we had a salary freeze in 
2013, it was highly appropriate that we were able  
to adjust staff salaries in 2014 across the Group  
on average by approximately 7%. 
The 2014 ‘Y ear of Engagement’ has transitioned  
into our 2015 ‘Y ear of Enablement’, where we  
are embarking on some signiﬁcant training 
commitments for managers throughout the 
Company and on focused leadership training for  
our Global Leadership T eam, comprising around  
50 staff members from across the business. Another 
focus for the ‘Y ear of Engagement’ is a thorough 
review of our systems and processes with a focus  
on how we can simplify operations and become 
more effective and efﬁcient internally, for example 
through changes in our systems and processes,  
IT infrastructure, billing operations and other  
similar related activities. 
In early 2014 we sold the assets of our retail energy 
business to RigNet, a signiﬁcant oil and gas operator 
in the satellite industry, and around 200 people left 
Inmarsat with the vast majority moving to RigNet. 
We work with many of them now that RigNet is a 
distributor of Inmarsat services and we are very 
pleased with how our relationship is working. Around 
the same time in 2014, we acquired a similar number 
of staff in our Maritime Business Unit when staff 
joined us from Globe Wireless. We are delighted  
how quickly and positively this integration of  
staff has happened.
In 2015 we are 
embarking on some 
signiﬁcant training 
commitments for 
managers and on 
focused leadership 
training for our Global 
Leadership T eam.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
President,  
Global Government  
Business Unit
ANDY START
Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Development
DEBBIE JONES
President, Maritime  
Business Unit
RONALD SPITHOUT
President, Aviation  
Business Unit
LEO MONDALE
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer
MICHELE FRANCI
Group General Counsel
MIRIAM MURPHY
President, US Government  
Business Unit
PETER HADINGER
President, Enterprise  
Business Unit
GREG EWERT
Group Chief  
Operations Ofﬁcer
RUY PINTO
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
RUPERT PEARCE
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
TONY BATES
Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Governance  
and Company Secretary
ALISON HORROCKS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 17 PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY
Our heritage of saving lives at sea and in the air  
is part of our ongoing public service ethos. I provide 
some further information about these activities in 
the CSR part of this Annual Report. Our satellite and 
network services have over many years consistently 
delivered availability exceeding 99.9%. The fact that 
we are relied on and trusted to operate to this high 
level of service is something we take seriously and 
operate our systems day in, day out to maintain  
this high standard.
The tragic loss of Malaysian Airlines ﬂight MH370  
has been an event that has undoubtedly deﬁned 
and shaped our year, and which will perhaps continue 
to have a profound impact on our reputation, brand, 
proﬁle and values. 
It is very hard to reﬂect on 2014 without revisiting 
that crisis and the part that we played, and indeed 
continue to play, in the search efforts for this lost 
aircraft. Looking back I have nothing but pride and 
admiration for the teams involved and for how  
they responded to events in a sensitive way . 
We have thought how we could respond to help 
airlines have greater information from their planes, 
especially in times of trouble and have made an  
offer of free global tracking, enhanced tracking,  
and a revolutionary ‘black box in the cloud’  
service. We ﬁrmly believe that our ADS-C services, 
comprising two-way broadband capabilities, can 
play a vital role in situational awareness and crisis 
response for the commercial air transport industry . 
The early signs are that both international safety 
bodies such as ICAO and IA T A and the world’ s  
major airlines have welcomed our initiative. 
Our CSR report will also provide you with  
additional information on our ethical processes  
for whistleblowing and similar policies and give you 
some further information on our involvement in 
social and charitable activities.
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2015
We are moving from a year of transition in 2014  
to a year of transformation this year, as we initiate 
the ramp up of Global Xpress revenues following 
global CSI, expected in the second half of this year, 
supported by continued growth in our legacy L-band 
services. Being predominantly a wholesaler of 
satellite airtime, and going to market primarily 
indirectly, having strong relationships with our 
partners continues to be key to our success. 
We have launched I-5 F2 and it is completing its 
76-day launch mission before it will become 
operational and we are planning for a launch of  
I-5 F3 in the second quarter of 2015. Apart from 
these satellite launches and deployments, we  
must complete the Global Xpress development 
programme, widely distribute GX terminals, work  
with our GX Value Added Resellers (V ARs) to ensure 
their market readiness, and crystallise GX market 
access such that a full service GX is delivered early  
in the second half of this year on a global basis. 
Additionally, we aim to maintain the schedule for I-5 
F4 and Falcon Heavy launch vehicle readiness both 
as a back-up and for network augmentation.
We will also deliver our Alphasat satellite into full 
service in Q1 2015 (adding BGAN services over 
Alphasat’ s coverage area) and launch a fourth 
ocean region later in 2015, which will improve overall 
L-band network capacity and efﬁciency, as well as 
support the construction and entry into operation  
of the new BGAN gateway in Russia which I 
mentioned earlier. 
We intend to start to replace the Inmarsat-4 
satellites gradually from the end of the decade, and 
therefore we are planning to complete all of the 
Inmarsat-6 design development, so that we are 
ready to initiate a development and manufacturing 
contract during 2015. 
We are also moving forward rapidly with our 
European S-band initiative this year. This includes 
the satellite manufacturing programme; starting the  
Air to Ground network design, development and 
deployment by the end of the year; the development 
and certiﬁcation of on-board equipment; and the 
addition of launch airlines, as our plans are to be  
in revenue generation with airline customers and 
passengers with our new integrated aviation  
network in Europe by early 2017.
Our heritage of saving lives at sea and in the air  
is part of our ongoing public service ethos.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 18
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED In product and service terms, this year is when we 
plan to deliver increasing revenue contributions  
from the many new products launched in 2014 
– especially IsatPhone 2, IsatHub, FleetOne, L-T AC, 
BGAN HDR and Fleet Media. 2015 will also see some 
very important new product launches too – most 
notably perhaps SB200 (a smaller broadband 
terminal for aircraft), LAISR and LACE (two new 
Government services) and a new M2M device. 
2015 will also see us start to galvanise our Value 
Added Manufacturer (V AM) community to innovate 
new products around the core module of our existing 
BGAN systems and terminals. We expect this to 
enable us, by the second half of 2016, to launch  
a new wave of product and service innovation 
leveraged off our own signiﬁcant platform 
investments. This will be an exciting new opportunity 
for our BGAN and GSPS service platforms, allowing 
us to maintain our thought-leadership for highly  
mobile broadband satcoms. 
In the solutions development area, 2015 is the  
year when we intend to focus attention on our 
Certiﬁed Application Partner (CAP) programme, 
working closely with our channel partners and a  
new category of CAP to bring a large number of  
third-party applications, services and solutions  
onto our new Inmarsat Gateway platform. These 
developments will start to drive new value over our 
network and to our end user communities. This is  
a new business opportunity for us to deliver and is 
hugely challenging and exciting – our investment  
in Cisco’ s development of the Inmarsat Gateway  
is now coming to fruition.
Finally, our geographic expansion programmes  
will also continue to evolve, with opportunities  
in the BRIC countries to develop local gateways,  
and further signiﬁcant investment by our Global 
Government and Enterprise teams on growing  
their new expanded market presence. 
If we accomplish all that in 2015, this is how we can 
imagine the business to look as we enter 2016:
 
 > Maritime will have grown its core mid-market 
business as well as diversiﬁed into the VSAT, 
mega-yacht, ﬁshing, leisure and coastal merchant 
segments to begin the process of dramatically 
expanding our addressable maritime markets  
and entering a new era of high growth
 > Enterprise will have increased the way we are  
used by our Media customers, launched into  
the Enterprise and Energy VSAT markets, grown 
market share in global M2M markets, and begun 
the transformation of our core commercial land 
markets with exciting new products like IsatHub
 > Aviation will have grown our leading business 
aviation franchise, focused on thought-
leadership in aviation safety, and successfully 
positioned Inmarsat as the global leader in the 
emerging aviation passenger connectivity sector
 > Global Government will have completed the initial 
globalisation of its business and started to leverage 
the beneﬁts of its enhanced footprint, and
 > US Government and Global Government will  
have used GX and numerous innovative products  
and services, diversiﬁed their businesses and 
positioned themselves for growth in government 
markets in the future.
This is Inmarsat’ s formula for success – invest from 
strength to grow proﬁtably, take those proﬁts and 
repeat the process again. The business model shown 
on page 24 captures this ongoing cycle. Near term 
growth will drive new longer-term growth opportunities 
for us all. 
2015 is going to be a challenging and compelling 
year. Inmarsat’ s success is built upon the 
professionalism, loyalty and passion of its staff;  
the experienced distributors and wider ecosystem 
partners we work with and also the backing we have 
from investors and ﬁnancial institutions who support 
our growth ambitions by maintaining their 
relationships with us. 
2015 will also see us start 
to galvanise our Value 
Added Manufacturer 
(VAM) community to 
innovate new products 
around the core module 
of our existing BGAN 
systems and terminals.
We also intend to move 
forward rapidly with  
our European S-band 
initiative this year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 19 WE OPERATE IN A GROWTH SECTOR
INCREASING DEVICE  
AND SENSOR PENETRATION
EXPLOSIVE 
GROWTH  
IN SOLUTIONS
Cloud-based  
services
Apps
Cloud-based services
Internet of Things
GLOBAL MOBILE DATE  
TRAFFIC EXPLODING
Exobytes per month 
+61% CAGR (2013-2018)
(Cisco VNI Mobile 2014)
GLOBAL MOBILE BROADBAND  
SHOWING EXPLOSIVE GROWTH
WE ARE SEEING THREE CLEAR  
GLOBAL TRENDS:
 > a dramatic increase in mobile trafﬁc, due partly 
to strong growth in the number of mobile internet 
connections, such as personal devices and 
machine-to-machine (M2M) connections,  
which will exceed 10 billion by 2018 and be  
1.4 times greater than the world’s population 
(source: Cisco); 
 > these devices are being served by an 
extraordinary proliferation of solutions, services 
and capabilities, increasingly hosted remotely, 
often in the cloud; and
 > both devices and applications are driving huge 
growth in mobile data trafﬁc.
T aken together, these three trends are changing  
the way we live our lives, conduct our business, 
defend our borders and provide our public services. 
We are ﬁnding that the satellite communication 
needs of our traditional customer communities, 
which we have served for over 35 years, are 
changing in line with these trends. The 70,000 
vessels in the global merchant maritime ﬂeet are 
becoming ﬂoating nodes on corporate networks 
and the 2.5 million crew members serving on those 
ships are demanding to be connected with satellite 
broadband, many for the ﬁrst time. In a similar vein, 
the more than 20,000 commercial aircraft that ﬂy 
over our heads every day are embracing a new era 
of safety and greener operations via satellite 
broadband connectivity and the hundreds of 
millions of passengers who ﬂy on them each year 
are demanding to be connected while they travel.
On land, the ’internet of everything’ is demanding  
to become the ‘internet of everywhere’, and the 
energy, resources, media, aid, transport and 
logistics sectors that we have served for many  
years are increasingly embracing richer, greener 
and more efﬁcient working practices via broadband 
connectivity. Government users are at the forefront 
of all these trends, requiring highly reliable and 
secure, ubiquitous global connectivity wherever 
they may go, not just for their strategic and tactical 
activities, but also for the morale, welfare and 
recreation of their personnel, who these days have 
often grown up in an uber-connected environment 
and expect that to continue in their workplace.
As well as driving growth in our core business,  
these trends are causing the worlds of terrestrial  
and satellite broadband to come together in exciting 
and novel combinations, playing to each other’ s 
respective strengths, driving new growth opportunities 
for us. In a world increasingly reliant on coverage and 
connectivity to perform mission-critical tasks via 
applications and solutions in the cloud or a VPN,  
our long-established seamless global coverage  
and safety services, with levels of reliability and 
resiliency across all environments mean that our 
mobile satellite services for the ﬁrst time can offer  
a powerful complementary capability to terrestrial 
networks, delivering a complete package to end users. 
T o maximise this latter opportunity , we are ensuring 
that our networks are built to common global 
technology standards and our products and services 
are modular , to ensure that our capabilities are easily 
integrated into hybrid satellite-terrestrial outcomes. 
This enables them to seamlessly support the 
deployment of large-scale terrestrial solutions  
and applications. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 20
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
OUR MARKETS WE OPERATE ACROSS FOUR KEY MARKET SECTORS:
CHALLENGES
 > to position Inmarsat as the global leader in 
passenger and cockpit connectivity;
 > to maximise the opportunity to replicate US  
Air to Ground success in the European market;
 > balancing requirements which vary signiﬁcantly 
by aircraft and by region: requiring multi-band, 
multi-technology solutions; and
 > maximising the Global Xpress opportunities.
OUTLOOK
 > ambition to provide an integrated  
product portfolio to best serve multiple 
connectivity needs of all aircraft types 
in any ﬂeet;
 > our services will be used to meet  
passenger demand for wiﬁ while inﬂight; 
 > strong partnerships are enabling our  
market penetration.
KPIs
 > overall Aviation ARPU grew by 23%
 > SwiftBroadband active SIMs grew  
by 33%
 > SwiftBroadband revenues increased  
by 67%
AVIATION
Voice and high-speed data connectivity for cockpit and cabin, including safety communications
CHALLENGES
 > optimising, supporting and expanding our 
global network of channel partners; 
 > identifying sustainable growth opportunities 
across a broad and diverse range of sectors, in 
both well-served and under -served geographies; 
 > being ﬂexible to accommodate an extensive 
range of sector speciﬁc product and  
service requirements;
 > identify competitive and innovative ways to 
expand the portfolio of solutions by working  
with technology partners; and
 > maximising the Global Xpress opportunities.
OUTLOOK
 > we are evolving and diversifying with  
new product launches in 2015;
 > new products will enable broader  
market penetration; and
 > fast growing ecosystem of existing  
and new channel partners will provide  
accelerated growth opportunities in  
targeted Enterprise verticals.
KPIs
 > over 292,000 M2M devices
 > M2M revenue increased by 30%
 > number of installed IsatPhones  
increased by 23%
ENTERPRISE
A range of voice and data services for business and individuals operating beyond the reach of land-based terrestrial  
communications and where terrestrial services may be unreliable
CHALLENGES
 > driving growth in user commitment;
 > rapid adoption of services and products  
in new market areas;
 > expanding traditional channel to add  
‘Smart Shipping’ enablers;
 > expanding our safety services offering; and
 > maximising the Global Xpress opportunities.
OUTLOOK
 > greater demand for data to be shared 
ship:shore:ship and with crew expecting  
to be connected;
 > increasing regulatory development  
encourages need for greater data usage; and
 > new products appeal to new target markets 
bringing revenue growth opportunities.
KPIs
 > 40,469 installed FleetBroadband vessels
 > 24% growth in FleetBroadband revenues
 > 2,019 installed VSAT vessels
 > 26% growth in VSAT revenues
MARITIME
Provision of voice, high-speed data and safety communications for all vessel sizes
CHALLENGES
 > budget issues remain in North America  
and Western Europe;
 > protect the core revenues through increased 
promotion of new products; and
 > US Government is moving users to its own 
satellites to reduce spending in short-term; and
 > maximising the Global Xpress opportunities.
OUTLOOK
 > signiﬁcant opportunities to connect those  
who are unconnected;
 > well positioned to take market share in  
merging MSS/FSS Government markets; and
 > enhancing the capabilities of standard products  
and delivering integrated solutions and roles in 
enduring programmes.
KPIs 
 > Global Government presence extended  
into 24 countries over last three years
 > revenue outside the US increased by 1%
 > ﬁrst GX revenues from US Government
GOVERNMENT
Provision of voice and high-speed data services for governments worldwide, for military and civil programmes
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 21 STRATEGIC ROADMAP TO DELIVER SUSTAINED PROFITABLE GROWTH
OUR VISION: 
IN THE LIVES OF OUR CUSTOMERS, THE ROLE OF INMARSAT IS TO POWER 
THE BEST GLOBAL SATELLITE SOLUTIONS TO MEET THEIR REMOTE AND  
MOBILE CONNECTIVITY NEEDS. WE GIVE OUR CUSTOMERS WHAT THEY  
NEED TO CONNECT ANYWHERE, ANYTIME
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES:
WE HAVE FOUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES WHICH DESCRIBE  
HOW WE WILL ACHIEVE OUR VISION
1.   CONTINUED  
L-BAND GROWTH
 > Grow value of our core markets
 > Innovate to expand beyond  
our core markets
 > Extend our geographic 
footprint
STRATEGIC ROADMAP TO DELIVER SUSTAINED PROFITABLE GROWTH
Safety Resiliency
Capacity
INMARSAT-4
Core L -band services 
Highly mobile, agile and resilient
INMARSAT-5
Core Ka-band services
Global Xpress (GX)
High capacity, high speed
EU AVIATION NETWORK
Hybrid network for  
passenger connectivity 
(S-band)
Coverage
Capacity
2.   CREATION OF A SOLUTIONS 
ECOSYSTEM
 > New value drivers  
and differentiators
 > New revenue streams  
and business models
3.   GROWTH AND DIVERSITY  
VIA GX AND S-BAND
 > New super-broadband  
MSS services
 > Diversiﬁcation into new  
user/terminal markets
 > Aviation passenger 
connectivity in Europe
4.   DELIVER SUSTAINED 
PROFITABLE GROWTH
 > Maintain highly efﬁcient  
business model
 > Free cash ﬂow expansion 
enabling future investment  
to deliver growth
INMARSAT GATEWAY
Delivering value-added solutions for customers
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 22
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
A FOCUSED STRA TEGY  
DELIVERING RESUL TS OUR STRATEGY IS UNCHANGED IN  
ITS DIRECTION
Our core strategy – which I set out for you in the 
2012 Annual Report in my ﬁrst year as CEO – 
remains unchanged. The only addition is the  
S-band initiative in Europe, which is of course a new 
programme that we announced in May 2014. 
Underpinning our strategy is the unassailable fact 
that we live in a hyper-connected world, driven by 
three trends: 
 > dramatic growth in applications and solutions 
(many of them now in the cloud); 
 > dramatic growth in connected devices and 
sensors to support those applications in a  
mobile environment; and
 > exponential growth in global mobile data  
trafﬁc fuelled by the ﬁrst two trends.
T ogether these trends are delivering a virtuous cycle 
of broadband demand across consumer , business 
and government markets. Applications drive devices, 
devices drive applications, and both drive bandwidth 
and coverage demand – and on the cycle goes. 
All these customers want to be able to roam 
seamlessly from terrestrial networks to satellite 
networks and back again, all the time maintaining  
a data session and a rich and functional  
applications environment. 
In this environment, the new keys to  
competitiveness are:
 > global coverage to meet the needs for ubiquity; 
 > mobility for an untethered user base; 
 > high-speed services to meet end-user 
expectations; 
 > high levels of network capacity, to deliver low  
cost communications services; 
 > high reliability and security, to support mission-
critical applications; and 
 > solutions friendliness and simplicity to facilitate 
integration and applications compatibility. 
These new keys to competitiveness are a roll call of 
Inmarsat’ s capabilities today; indeed they’re part of 
our heritage. As such, we are very well-placed to 
compete in today’ s exciting marketplace. 
Seen in this light, our strategy is clear:
 > our L -band capabilities deliver agile, global  
mobile broadband capabilities to small  
form-factor and low-cost devices; 
 > our Global Xpress Ka-band programme 
complements that by delivering ultra-high-
throughput, ultra-high-capacity global  
mobile broadband to larger and more complex 
product platforms, expanding and diversifying 
our business; 
 > our S-band satellite programme enlarges our 
connectivity platform for aviation passengers  
in Europe via a compelling and  
complementary technology; and
 > over the top of those three service platforms  
we have Inmarsat Gateway to provide us with  
a powerful applications enabler to ensure  
a high-quality and seamless customer  
solutions experience. 
T aken together, we believe our strategic goals  
more than meet the challenges we face. 
WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS WANT
SATELLITE NETWORK EXTENSION
‘SOLUTIONS ENABLEMENT’
CAPACITY , CAPABILITY AND COVERAGE
‘I WANT TO REMAIN CONNECTED EVERYWHERE I GO’
TERRESTRIAL NETWORK CONNECTIVITY
RICH  
SOLUTIONS
ANYWHERE
ON THE  
MOVE
TO ANY  
DEVICE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 23 WE PROVIDE VOICE AND DATA CONNECTIVITY WHEREVER YOU ARE: ON LAND, AT SEA OR IN THE AIR 
We are focused on our customers and how we meet their communication requirements.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
OPERATIONS (COO)
Operationalising innovation 
Delivering high reliability  
and security 
DEVELOPMENT AND  
ENGINEERING (CTO)
High-paced, high-quality innovation  
Leveraging market/customer intimacy  
Open to external collaboration
BUSINESS UNITS 
Customer intimacy, tailored offerings, agility, reach, innovation
MARITIME ENTERPRISE AVIATION US  
GOVERNMENT
GLOBAL  
GOVERNMENT
CAPABILITIES INVESTMENT
INNOVATION
 > we ensure safety at sea, in the air  
and on the land;
 > we facilitate business and trade across  
the world;
 > we support the vital work of  
humanitarian organisations;
 > we enable economic and social 
development in remote regions and  
for the most isolated communities; and
 > we support governments as a  
trusted partner.
 > we are a technology Company whose 
growth is fuelled by innovation;
 > to succeed, we need to out-innovate  
our competition;
 > customer and market intimacy is key  
to successful innovation;
 > excellence in operations is key to 
delivering successful innovation; and
 > we are a customer-focused product  
and services business, with technology  
at our core.
 > our core competence of quality 
engineering and technology delivery  
is the platform for our aspiration to be 
more customer centric in our products 
and services innovation;
 > we expect our business model to 
generate revenues which through 
prudent cost management will drive  
high operating margins; and
 > this generates strong cash ﬂows which  
we use to reward our shareholders, our 
staff and to reinvest in our business.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 24
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
BUSINESS MODEL Having the right people with the individual skills, 
competencies and experience who can create 
value and deliver our business objectives.
Example: Ensuring our values are visibly seen  
to be applied across the business; focusing on 
how we have responded to the issues raised in 
the staff survey and how we will deliver further 
changes in 2015. Ensuring that we are an agile, 
devolved and well-trained organisation that can 
respond powerfully to day-to-day challenges 
and opportunities.
OUR PEOPLE
Embedding our corporate values so that all our 
employees understand that so much of our 
success as a business depends on ‘how’ they 
interpret these values: being passionate, open, 
enterprising and market-driven.
Example: The increased focus on how our 
services can be used for aviation safety 
combines several of these values: the passion  
to bring forward ideas and suggest new ways  
in which the aviation industry can improve  
airline reporting, as well as the enterprising and 
market-driven approach to transform these 
ideas into products and services.
OUR VALUES
Having strong relationships with all our partners 
– from suppliers to distributors – to strengthen 
our service offering.
Example: By working closely with the different 
parts of our ecosystem we identify opportunities 
to work closer together or spot market 
opportunities which have a mutually beneﬁcial 
outcome for us all.
If we focus on these different elements, we can 
create greater value for ourselves and all our 
stakeholders. These resources and relationships 
are intrinsically linked and we recognise how 
important it is not to focus on maximising one of 
them at the expense of another. We will become 
more successful as a business by optimising all 
our resources and relationships.
OUR PARTNERS
Supporting on-going innovation to deliver  
new products, services and satellite renewal.
Example: Our work to open up our architecture 
to encourage development of new applications 
as recently promoted at our ﬁrst Inmarsat 
Developers Conference. Our forward planning  
for future products, building on what we have 
now and how we can improve the experience  
for our customers.
OUR TECHNOLOGY
Having world renowned satellite network reliability .
Example: Each year we ensure our service meets 
the maritime safety at sea standards set by the 
IMO and aviation safety standards set by ICAO 
so that customers know they can rely on us in 
times of need to provide a life-saving service.
OUR SATELLITE NETWORKS OUR FINANCIAL RESOURCES
Having the ﬁnancial resources available to us to 
grow our business.
Example: Reviewing our banking/lending 
arrangements to make best use of competitively 
priced funding as we did for our last bond 
ﬁnancing in May 2014.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 25 An overarching risk management policy is in place 
which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group 
and how this is measured across identiﬁed macro 
and business risks.
As required by the policy, management operates  
a risk management process to identify, evaluate  
and report signiﬁcant risks within the business and  
to report to the Board on how those risks are being 
managed. Risks are highlighted through a number  
of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, 
monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, 
which identify the risk area, the probability of the  
risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the  
actions being taken to manage the risk to the 
desired level. All the risk registers are reviewed by 
senior management and provided quarterly to the 
Board and to the Audit Committee.
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties 
that may adversely affect our business, operations, 
liquidity, ﬁnancial position or future performance, not 
all of which are wholly within our control. Although 
many of the risks and uncertainties inﬂuencing our 
performance are macroeconomic and likely to 
affect the performance of businesses generally, 
others are particular to our operations in mobile 
satellite services.
Our principal risks and uncertainties are discussed  
on the next few pages and are a summary of the  
risks identiﬁed in the Preliminary Results Statement 
distributed on 5 March 2015. This summary, however, 
is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of  
all risks and uncertainties affecting our business.  
Some risks and uncertainties may be unknown  
to us and other risks and uncertainties, currently 
regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be 
material. All of them have the potential to impact  
our business, operations, liquidity, ﬁnancial position 
or future performance adversely .
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
 > Reviews the risk proﬁle against risk appetite and makes recommendations  
to management in relation to risk proﬁle, strategy and key controls
 > Reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies
 > Assesses major risk-related projects
RISK COMMITTEE
 > Deﬁnes the risk governance framework, 
 risk culture and principles
 > Sets overall risk strategy and policy
 > Approves risk levels
 > Responsible for an effective system  
of internal controls
 > Approves risk decisions that are beyond 
delegated authorities
INMARSAT PLC BOARD
 > Review the risk management framework  
and the effectiveness of internal 
controls, risk management systems and 
major risk initiatives across the Group
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
 > Implement mitigation strategies
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
 > Reviews the risk management framework 
and the effectiveness of internal 
controls, risk management systems  
and major risk initiatives
 > Reviews the internal audit programme  
and reports
AUDIT COMMITTEE
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 26
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
A ROBUST APPROACH  
TO RISK MANAGEMENT RISK
We face risks when we launch our satellites and while 
they are operated in their orbital location. There are 
only a few companies who provide launch services 
and if they encounter problems, our launches may 
fail or be delayed. Our network may not be able to 
cope with the demand from users.
MITIGATION
In orbit failure of a satellite is mitigated by using  
our resident quality assurance teams during the 
manufacture and assembly of the satellites and 
launch vehicles. The staff in our control centre  
are highly trained professionals with signiﬁcant 
experience in operating satellites once in orbit.  
We have launch and in-orbit insurance in place.  
Our network is designed to accommodate surges  
in trafﬁc demand by ﬂexibly deploying capacity  
to those places in need. 
SATELLITES AND OUR NETWORK
CRITICAL PARTNERS
RISK
W e rely in part for our revenues on third-party 
distribution partners and service providers and they 
might not sell our services effectively or competitively .
MITIGATION
W e encourage strong relationships with all our 
partners and provide them with excellent products 
and services to sell in their markets. Our relationship is 
important to this success and we encourage sharing 
of information, developing ideas through 1:1 meetings 
and through our regional and global conferences.
SPECTRUM
RISK
W e rely on radio spectrum, which has historically 
been allocated without charge, to provide our 
services. W e must agree how it is used in coordination 
with other satellite operators. W e may not be able  
to coordinate usage in the future and/or may be 
charged for the spectrum which could affect our 
ability to provide services.
MITIGATION
We utilise innovation to ensure we regularly  
improve the efﬁciency of our spectrum usage.  
We also educate and inform regulators and 
government as to the unique sociology- 
economic contribution of MSS.
OUR RISKS
RISK
Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks 
from unauthorised access, computer viruses or 
other security risks.
MITIGATION
We have implemented industry-standard security 
measures, and have increased our investment in 
counter cyber threat tools and staff. 
CYBER SECURITY
RISK
We have two signiﬁcant programmes currently 
underway: Global Xpress and the aviation passenger 
connectivity S-band satellite programme. Both 
programmes could be subject to delays or cost 
overruns and when they are launched there is a  
risk that the level of demand will not justify the  
cost spent.
MITIGATION
We have professional, experienced teams who focus 
on large-scale programmes and develop close 
relationships with the third parties we use to deliver 
them. Any such programmes are subject to a 
detailed business case being prepared before we 
proceed and regular checks on progress against  
the original business case.
NEXT GENERATION SERVICES AND 
SATELLITES
COMPETITION
RISK
We face competition today from a number  
of communications technologies and expect 
competition to increase which may reduce demand 
for our services because newer technologies are 
used in preference to ours.
MITIGATION
We believe our current L-band products remain 
competitive. We are introducing new products and 
services to stimulate demand by extending use  
by existing users and being of appeal to new users. 
Our investments in Global Xpress and the S-band 
programme will position us favourably against some 
competition and we have put additional focus and 
attention on how we innovate more quickly and 
focus on services our customers want to use.
REGULATION
RISK
We face increasing regulation in several areas.
Providing our satellite services in some countries 
may incur additional costs or we may require 
licenses to operate which are difﬁcult to obtain.
MITIGATION
We work closely with the regulators, governments 
and our local partners to ensure that our services 
operate within the local requirements. Our focus is to 
ensure we have the appropriate licenses to operate 
to allow our partners to distribute our services.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 27 LIGHTSQUARED  
COOPERATION AGREEMENT
RISK
If the LightSquared agreement continues after they 
emerge from bankruptcy, we will ultimately give them 
some of the L-band spectrum over North America 
and our services will co-exist with their services in 
adjacent frequencies. This could mean our services 
are congested or interrupted which could affect our 
service performance in North America.
MITIGATION
We have an experienced team who monitor  
the activities of the LightSquared cooperation 
agreement. They understand how both sets of 
services would need to sit alongside each other  
to ensure any interference is minimised or does  
not exist.
REDUCTIONS IN SPENDING  
BY GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS
RISK
We have experienced signiﬁcant reduction in US 
Government spending over the last couple of years 
and some reduction in other global government 
spending. We have faced increased competition  
as companies pursue what opportunities there are 
often at low margins. If further government spending 
controls are implemented, contracts may be 
cancelled, de-scoped or delayed which could  
affect our revenues.
MITIGATION
We have already cut costs within the US 
Government business to reﬂect the downturn a 
couple of years ago. There is much public discussion 
about the reliance of governments on commercial 
satellite operators. We believe the reliability of our 
existing satellites and the new services we have 
launched focused on government usage, plus the 
introduction of our Global Xpress satellites will  
offer attractive services for government users.
 SANCTIONS
RISK
The current unstable geo-political situation in 
Ukraine has created new risks for us and could affect 
the launch of the third Inmarsat-5 satellite which 
uses a Russian-built rocket as its launch vehicle  
and is launched from a Russian operated site. 
MITIGATION
We monitor closely the ongoing political situation 
and believe that the restrictions currently in place  
do not affect the launch of the third satellite. We 
have applied for all licenses and engage with the 
appropriate government departments to ensure  
we are able to proceed to launch the satellite.
RISK
Our ability to make payments on and reﬁnance our 
debt depends on our future operating performance 
and ability to generate sufﬁcient cash. If our business 
does not perform well we may not be able to fund 
our debt payments.
MITIGATION
We have long-range business plans, annual 
budgets and regular forecasts of the Company’s 
business which review cash ﬂow generation and 
debt repayment. Monitoring these measures on a 
regular ongoing basis will enable us to plan for  
debt repayment appropriately and responsibly.
FINANCING AND FOREIGN  
EXCHANGE RISK
OUR RISKS CONTINUED
DEVELOPMENT OF  
HYBRID NETWORKS
RISK
If hybrid networks start to be developed, we may face 
increased competition for the right to use L-band 
spectrum in certain countries which would make it 
difﬁcult for us to obtain or retain the spectrum we 
need to operate our business. There is also a risk 
that hybrid networks may interfere with the 
transmission of our services.
MITIGATION
We have an experienced team who monitor network 
interference. They will work with potential hybrid 
network operators to understand their requirements 
and how their service can operate alongside our  
own without causing issues for our customers.
TAXATION
RISK
As we operate in multiple jurisdictions, we may  
have disputes concerning the amount of tax due.
MITIGATION
We maintain constructive engagement with the  
local tax authorities and where appropriate we 
engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain 
opinions on tax legislation and principles. We also 
provide for any potential tax exposures in line with 
accounting standards.
MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES
RISK
We may ﬁnd our staff leave because our business 
does not maintain an up-to-date focus on 
technological advancement or that they feel they 
are not fairly compensated. We may also have 
difﬁculties in recruiting talented new staff.
MITIGATION
Our business has a new energy to focus on 
technological innovation which creates an exciting 
environment in which to work. We have also put  
in place manager and leadership development 
programmes and continue to benchmark 
compensation to ensure our staff are remunerated 
fairly reﬂecting the roles they perform.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 28
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED Inmarsat operates across four primary 
business segments – Maritime, Enterprise, 
Aviation and Government – providing highly 
reliable, efﬁcient and cost-effective satellite 
connectivity services to public and private 
sector organisations across all seven 
continents. The following pages provide 
greater information about each of  
these sectors.
A glossary can be found on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 29
BUSINESS 
IN ACTION Our Maritime business remains Inmarsat’ s largest 
single market segment, representing approximately 
50% of the Company’ s annual MSS revenues.  
2014 continued to see signiﬁcant uptake of our 
FleetBroadband service, as maritime users continued 
the trend of migrating from Inmarsat’ s legacy services 
to its more advanced broadband connectivity . 
 
The Maritime business also continued to enjoy the 
fruits of a strong product and service pipeline, and 
2014 saw a number of new, innovative services, which 
helped both to expand the Company’ s leadership 
position in maritime communications and to open  
up new revenue opportunities.
2014 commenced for Maritime with the completion  
of our asset acquisition of Globe Wireless, the 
Florida-based provider of value-added maritime 
communications services to the shipping market. 
The business had an installed customer base of  
over 6,000 ships. 
This acquisition kicked off a strong year for  
Maritime, laying the groundwork for both enhancing 
customer revenues from Inmarsat’ s market-leading 
FleetBroadband service and preparing the market 
for the introduction of FleetXpress, which will 
combine the resilience of L-band satcoms with the 
signiﬁcantly enhanced capacity afforded through 
the Company’ s new Global Xpress constellation.
The strategy of migrating Inmarsat Maritime 
customers away from our legacy services continued 
to yield strong results. While revenues from our 
legacy Fleet service declined by almost 20%  
over the year, this was off-set by the growth in 
FleetBroadband revenues, which increased by almost 
one quarter over the course of the year. 
By the close of the year , we had seen a climb of 
almost 13% in the number of active FleetBroadband 
ships, which grew to over 40,000. In parallel with the 
growth in FleetBroadband, the Maritime business also 
enjoyed a strong rise in its VSA T installed base. This 
trend was driven, primarily, by end-users taking  
up our XpressLink service; itself a migration path to 
FleetXpress, which will deliver a new generation of 
high-speed broadband services via the new Global 
Xpress constellation.
The expansion of our higher capacity services  
is supporting a growing trend in the maritime  
industry in which there is increasing reliance on 
ship-to-shore data communications. This reﬂects 
both the industry’ s need to enhance crew welfare 
services and the introduction of a host of new 
operational technologies helping to drive cost 
efﬁciency across the industry . 2014 also saw two key 
innovations for Inmarsat’ s Maritime business. 
The ﬁrst of these was the development and launch  
of Fleet Media, an innovative new service, which 
strengthened further our welfare and training offering. 
Inmarsat Maritime also started to penetrate a new 
market for its satcom services in 2014 with the 
introduction of Fleet One. 
With this tailored solution, Inmarsat started 
addressing the growing demand for connectivity 
amongst leisure yacht, ﬁshing and other small boat 
owners. Fleet One enables us, for the ﬁrst time, to 
support smaller vessels with services previously the 
preserve of much larger vessels, at price levels  
ﬁt for this vertical.
The solid performance of the Maritime business 
demonstrates the dual beneﬁts our broadband 
connectivity service offers in terms of operational 
efﬁciency and crew welfare both of which are key 
drivers in a world maritime market. The maritime 
industry continues to be characterised by low 
growth, with relatively high fuel prices, low cargo 
rates and weak demand, combining to create  
a challenging trading environment for many  
maritime organisations.
Our Maritime business engaged the market on these 
important trends with its inaugural ‘Smart Operations’ 
conference, the ﬁrst in a series of events to  
stimulate debate in the maritime industry about  
the operational beneﬁts of integrated thinking on  
shore and ship communications.
During 2014, we initiated a step-change in thinking 
on safety services. The recognised global leader in 
maritime safety services, Inmarsat is building on its 
35 years of heritage in maritime safety services with 
a transformative approach that will bring the world’ s 
most reliable safety systems into the heart of the 
‘smart ship’. The Company’ s vision is to integrate 
safety, environmental monitoring and regulatory 
compliance into a single, easy to use, robust and 
reliable solution.
The expansion of 
Inmarsat’s higher 
capacity services is 
supporting a growing 
trend in the maritime 
industry in which there  
is increasing reliance  
on ship-to-shore data 
communications. 
Fleet Media, developed in conjunction with a leading 
programme content provider, NT Digital Partners, 
brings a ﬁrst for satellite content offering to the 
commercial maritime market. It uses the Inmarsat-4 
and Inmarsat-5 satellite constellations and leverages 
our global distribution channel to deliver the latest 
Hollywood movies, as well as television programming, 
sports and news content, to the world’ s commercial 
shipping ﬂeet, while at sea, to the crew’ s own 
personal devices (tablets, smartphones, laptops).  
In addition, it is expected that Fleet Media will serve 
as a platform for the delivery of cutting edge crew 
education, training and development.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 30
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
MARITIME ENSURING DISTRESS CALLS 
AT SEA ARE HEARD
Mariners in grave or imminent danger need to 
know their call for help will be heard, no matter 
where their ship is or how bad the conditions. The 
V olvo Ocean Race provided dramatic evidence  
of the power and reach of Inmarsat’ s global 
connectivity on 29 November 2014 when T eam 
V estas Wind’ s VO65 ran aground the Cargados 
Carajos reef, some 220 miles NNE of Mauritius, 
causing appalling damage.
Having contacted V olvo Ocean Race Control  
in Alicante to report the grounding and launch  
the rescue operation, the boat began taking  
on water and after eight hours the crew had  
to abandon ship as ﬂooding cut all electrical 
supplies and meant that the on-board phones  
no longer functioned.
Luckily for T eam V estas, their life raft was equipped 
with Inmarsat’ s IsatPhone 2 satellite phone, which 
ensured that they could remain in contact with 
Race Control while waiting for help to arrive.  
“It’ s been a lifesaver , ” said Skipper Chris ‘Nico’ 
Nicholson. T eam V estas’ dramatic rescue  
story was then shared with the world’ s media  
via Inmarsat’ s land-based BGAN service,  
once they reached the tiny Ile du Sud.
Inmarsat is the satellite cornerstone of the Global 
Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS).  
It is the only satcoms provider to offer 99.9% 
availability of its satellite and ground network. 
Scan the blue box using the Inmarsat 
App to view video content about  
T eam Vestas Wind rescue.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 31 EXTENDING COVERAGE  
IN REMOTE LOCATIONS
IsatHub is the ﬁrst step in the reinvention of the 
BGAN product platform. 
Approximately the size of a paperback book,  
it offers extraordinary coverage extension  
for smartphones and tablets at low cost. IsatHub 
delivers the highest data rate of any equivalent 
mobile satellite service. 
Through the IsatHub service, users can surf  
the internet, access their apps, text or talk  
using their smart devices, even when they’re 
thousands of kilometres from a terrestrial  
ﬁxed or mobile network.
Whether exploring for oil in the middle of a 
desert; a journalist tweeting breaking news from  
a remote island; or simply on holiday hundreds  
of kilometres from the nearest cellular coverage, 
IsatHub offers an assured 3G service for 
smartphones or tablets in areas that terrestrial 
networks cannot reach.
Scan the green box using the Inmarsat 
App to view the IsatHub video.
IsatHub has attracted signiﬁcant media 
attention since its ofﬁcial launch in 2014 and  
is opening up Inmarsat’ s BGAN connectivity 
services to a new generation of users.
32 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Inmarsat’ s Enterprise business top-and-tailed its  
year with major transactions, beginning with the 
completion of the sale of Inmarsat’ s retail energy 
business to RigNet, Inc. and concluding in December 
with the agreement to sell our stake in SkyWave, our 
leading downstream M2M partner, to ORBCOMM.
The sale of our retail energy assets to RigNet was 
part of a wide-ranging strategic transaction between  
the two companies, which also saw the appointment 
of RigNet as a Value Added Reseller (V AR) for  
Global Xpress and as a Distribution Partner  
for Inmarsat’ s L-band services focusing on the 
energy sector. 
This strategic approach was also reﬂected in  
the transaction to sell our shareholding in SkyWave 
to ORBCOMM. As part of the agreement, Inmarsat 
further cemented its important strategic relationship 
with ORBCOMM in the global M2M marketplace and 
acquired the intellectual property for the IsatData 
Pro (IDP) technology, as well as the SkyWave M2M 
service platform. This will enable Inmarsat to support 
a step-change in the pace of product and service 
innovation in this important market segment. 
Throughout the year, the performance of the 
Enterprise business was characterised by signiﬁcant 
innovations and the introduction of new services to 
both strengthen the Company’ s overall proposition 
and to open up new opportunities to provide 
Inmarsat services to a new generation of users.
Across the year as a whole, underlying revenue 
growth for our Enterprise business was just over  
6%, excluding the impact of the sale to RigNet.  
The increase was driven particularly by strong  
growth in machine to machine (M2M), IsatPhone 
– our handheld satphone - and Enterprise 
FleetBroadband (FB) revenues, although this  
was partially offset by lower BGAN revenues.
M2M saw the highest growth rate, at 30% for the 
year, followed by IsatPhone with a 23% increase in  
its installed based – taking the number of IsatPhone 
terminals to 115,500. Enterprise FB, which had growth 
of 22% in comparison to the previous year. BGAN 
revenue declined by 9% year-on-year.  
The growth in the M2M segment, which saw tens  
of thousands of devices brought onto the Inmarsat 
network, was further supported by the expansion  
of Inmarsat’ s M2M distribution channel with the 
appointment of RacoWireless, a global Distribution 
Partner for the award-winning IsatData Pro service.
M2M connectivity, or the ‘internet of things’,  
allows devices to communicate with each other  
and share information via the internet. Satellite 
communications play an increasingly important role 
in M2M development, enabling a host of applications 
ranging from asset tracking and remote surveillance 
to Smart Grids and environmental monitoring.
Among a range of major service innovations, 
Inmarsat strengthened its position in the satellite 
phone market with the introduction of IsatPhone 2, 
the Company’ s most advanced handheld satellite 
phone. IsatPhone 2 offers dependable, high-quality 
voice calls, text and email messaging outside cellular 
and ﬁxed network coverage. IsatPhone 2 joined 
Inmarsat’ s top-selling IsatPhone Pro as the latest 
addition to the Company’ s handheld satellite phone 
portfolio, offering customers a choice of phone 
depending on their requirements and budget.
A further important innovation in 2014 was the global 
launch of IsatHub, which – like Maritime’ s Fleet One 
service – takes Inmarsat into a new market segment. 
Throughout the year,  
the performance of  
the Enterprise business  
was characterised by 
signiﬁcant innovations 
and the introduction  
of new services. 
Designed to deliver global connectivity for 
smartphones and tablets, IsatHub features the 
highest data rate of any equivalent mobile satellite 
service with standard IP data of up to 240/384kbps 
(send/receive). Through the new service, both 
commercial and private users can surf the internet, 
access their apps, text or talk using their own smart 
devices, even when they’re thousands of kilometres 
from a terrestrial ﬁxed or mobile network. IsatHub 
was well received in the media and was heralded as  
a signiﬁcant innovation by consumer technology 
commentators across the world.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 33
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
ENTERPRISE Inmarsat’ s aviation business enjoyed another  
year of strong growth in 2014, recording a revenue 
increase of over one-third for the full year. This 
continued expansion was seen across both the 
business aviation and commercial air transport 
segments, for safety and cockpit communications, 
as well as aircraft operational systems and 
passenger connectivity . 
The engines of growth for Inmarsat’ s aviation 
business were SwiftBroadband (SB) and Classic  
Aero services, with SB growth in particular beneﬁtting 
from the impact of the ‘take-or-pay’ minimum 
commitment contracts signed with several key 
distribution partners mid-2014. 
Active SB terminals grew by some 33%, reaching 
approximately 5,400 by the end of the full year. 
Classic Aero active terminals grew by just over 9%. 
Inmarsat’ s biggest aviation news for 2014 was the 
announcement in June that it was committed to the 
development and building of a highly innovative, 
hybrid satellite-terrestrial network across the  
European Union. 
The purpose of the new network is to provide 
high-capacity, high-throughput passenger 
connectivity services to the short-haul European 
aviation industry . The initiative has generated 
signiﬁcant interest among commercial airlines and 
Inmarsat’ s aim is for the European Aviation Network 
to enter commercial service at the end of 2016. 
2014 proved to be a dramatic year for the 
commercial aviation industry with the tragic loss 
of a number of passenger jets, including the 
disappearance of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370. 
These events highlighted the need for more  
robust ﬂight tracking and surveillance systems,  
and we are is strongly supporting industry and 
government initiatives to introduce more reliable 
and effective satellite-based solutions. T o this end, 
we have further strengthened our capabilities in this 
area with a number of signiﬁcant appointments 
drawn from across the aviation industry . 
The aviation business also presented its plans  
for a free increased position reporting and tracking 
service and its concept for a ‘black box in the cloud’ 
service to ICAO in May, both of which can be 
achieved through Inmarsat’s existing  
satellite constellations.
In September, we announced that Hawaiian Airlines, 
the largest and longest serving airline for Hawaii,  
will become the ﬁrst commercial airline to install 
SwiftBroadband for ﬂight deck applications, including 
safety services on its Boeing 767-300s. Hawaiian 
Airlines will use Inmarsat’ s ‘SB Safety’ for ACARS  
data messages, live Electronic Flight Bag updates 
and Airline Operational Communication (AOC)  
voice and data. Inmarsat and the Federal Aviation 
Authority will collect data on the performance of  
the F ANS1/A service on Hawaiian Airlines, which will 
contribute to the achievement of approvals for 
F ANS1/A services over the ‘SB Safety’ service  
which are expected by early 2016.
2014 was also a key year for our aviation business  
in relation to the new Global Xpress constellation.
Inmarsat Aviation has already established GX 
Aviation as a leading global passenger connectivity 
service, even before the full global network becomes 
operational. During the course of 2014, several 
airlines have committed to this new technology and 
its revolutionary passenger service offering. It was 
announced in May 2014, that an Inmarsat partner, 
Honeywell, was working with Air China to trial GX 
avionics on an Airbus A330.
Inmarsat’s biggest 
aviation news for 2014 
was the announcement 
in June that it was 
committed to the 
development and 
building of a highly 
innovative, hybrid 
satellite-terrestrial 
network across the  
European Union. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 34
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
AV I A TI O N GIVING PASSENGERS 
CONNECTIVITY IN THE AIR
Inmarsat is investing up to $450m in a 
revolutionary hybrid satellite/terrestrial network 
to deliver the world’ s fastest mobile broadband 
service to the skies above Europe, ensuring 
passengers can enjoy the same connectivity  
in the air as they do on the ground.
Deploying an air-to-ground network across 
Europe will be complementary to our global 
satellite services operating with high-throughput 
broadband over the busy regional air trafﬁc routes.
Once the service is launched, passengers will 
simply log on with their smartphone, tablet or 
other Internet device and surf the web as if they 
were at home. Whether it’ s to stay in touch with 
friends and family, catch up on the latest news, 
complete a work assignment or make future 
travel arrangements, passengers will be able to 
access a true broadband experience in the air.
These high-speed broadband services could  
be available by the end of 2016.
Scan the pink box using the Inmarsat 
App to view the European Aviation 
Network video.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 35 SECURE AND RELIABLE 
ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY
The Inmarsat-5 satellites operate with a 
combination of ﬁxed narrow spot beams that 
enable us to deliver higher speeds through  
more compact terminals, plus steerable beams 
so additional capacity can be directed in 
real-time to where it’ s needed.
Operating in the high-performance Ka-band, 
while integrating seamlessly with our proven 
L-band network, Global Xpress (GX) allows 
customers across aviation, maritime, enterprise 
and government sectors to have reliable  
and assured access to high-throughput 
communications.
Government users have been at the forefront of 
the adoption of GX services and extensive trials 
have been conducted using the ﬁrst satellite – 
Inmarsat-5 F1 – in orbit above Europe, the 
Middle East, Africa and Asia.  The satellite already  
carries early revenue trafﬁc from aviation  
and land-based government users in both 
commercial and military bands.
Feedback from these trials has shown that GX 
doesn’t only meet but exceeds the expectations 
of these users.
Scan this grey box using  
the Inmarsat App to view  
the Global Xpress video.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 36 When Inmarsat announced the launch of regional 
Global Xpress services mid 2014, the ﬁrst paying 
customers came from the Government sector , and 
since then, both Inmarsat US Government and  
Global Government Business Units have been at the 
forefront of trials and pilots for the Company’ s most 
advanced, high-speed broadband services. 
Although market conditions in the US Government 
sector remain challenging, the opportunities 
presented by Global Xpress, including its speciﬁc 
MilSatCom capabilities, are generating signiﬁcant 
interest from governments across the world. This 
interest supports a growing trend for governments to 
supplement their own satcom resources with services 
from trusted commercial providers, such as Inmarsat.
While the longer-term prospects for the government 
business remains positive, 2014 was a challenging 
year for commercial satcom providers following the 
withdrawal of US and coalition troops in recent years 
from Iraq and Afghanistan and continued pressure 
on government budgets.
These issues were particularly difﬁcult for Ku-Band 
FSS providers in 2014, and Inmarsat’ s Ku-FSS retail 
business in the US was not immune from this which 
resulted in a decline in overall government revenues. 
Certain US contracts were not renewed, in particular 
for IP managed solutions. Other contracts were 
reduced in scale, with increased competitive intensity 
putting downward pressure on pricing and margins. 
As the US Government shifted from large-scale 
deployed operations to smaller, more mobile 
operations, Inmarsat’ s wholesale MSS Government 
revenues were seen to have greater robustness. 
MSS wholesale revenues were broadly steady by  
the end of 2014 following a decline in 2013. 
Revenues from our Global Government business 
increased as the Business Unit continued its 
expansion plans, entering 11 new territories during  
the course of the year. By expanding into attractive 
growth markets and increasing diversity into 
non-defence verticals, the Government business is 
progressively reducing the impact of operational 
tempo in any one nation. The Global Government 
Business Unit now has teams operating across  
30 countries, and we are pleased with the  
progress being made. 
There were encouraging new areas of growth in 
government demand for commercial satellite 
services in 2014. These include specialised 
programmes; integrated programmes in which 
satellite is just one component of the overall solution 
being supplied; managed services and areas where 
the ﬂexibility of Inmarsat’ s commercial bandwidth 
enables us to augment governments’ own 
communications capabilities most cost-effectively . 
2014 saw new contract wins in almost every 
continent, and encouraging revenue growth  
in new product areas.
Focused on long-term growth, Inmarsat’ s 
Government business continued a strong programme 
of service enhancements in 2014, focused around  
its existing L-band constellations as well as the 
introduction of early Ka-band GX services.
Inmarsat’ s L-T AC service continued to perform well  
in 2014 with signiﬁcant deployment by US forces  
and governments across the world. Designed with 
soldiers in mind, the L-T AC service, combined with 
the Spectra SlingShot
TM
, enables existing secure 
government radios to extend their range by 
accessing Inmarsat’ s satellites using a simple 
additional antenna unit.
A further important innovation was the development 
of L-T AC for civilian government users. This new 
service signiﬁcantly extends the range and 
capabilities of VHF radios used by the emergency 
services and enables full interoperability between 
civilian and defence forces radios – crucial during 
major incidents or civil emergencies.
2014 also saw the broader adoption of Inmarsat’ s 
services in support of ﬁrst responders. In addition  
to the reactive deployment of services including 
BGAN and IsatPhone, to support rescue and 
recovery missions following natural and man-made 
disasters, the year also saw a growth in proactive 
deployment of Inmarsat technology . 
In March 2014, the Indonesian National Board  
for Disaster Management selected Inmarsat as the 
basis of a pre-deployed emergency communications 
infrastructure, which will support the country’ s 
disaster response in the event of a natural 
catastrophe. Twenty regions in Indonesia are 
pre-deploying Inmarsat capable satcom equipment 
in addition to the pre-emptive deployment of two 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UA V) with advanced 
cameras on-board to provide immediate 
surveillance capabilities in the event of a disaster.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED
GOVERNMENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 37 OVERVIEW
CHANGES TO REPORTING SEGMENTS
Inmarsat plc revised its reporting segments during 
2014 to reﬂect the way the business is now managed 
by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The revised reporting 
segments are ‘Maritime’, ‘Government’, ‘Enterprise’, 
‘Aviation’ and ‘Central Services’. Central Services 
includes all income and costs that are not directly 
attributable to the other reporting segments, 
including all corporate administrative costs.
The comparative results have been restated using  
the new reporting segments. W e will no longer present 
results under the previous reporting segments. 
However , we will continue to report wholesale Mobile 
Satellite Service (MSS) revenue for the Group.
GROUP RESULTS
These results give the consolidated operating results 
and ﬁnancial condition of Inmarsat plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. 
TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL  
OFFICER
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/
(decrease)
Revenues 1,285.9 1,261.9 1.9%
Employee beneﬁt costs (237.3) (244.8) (3.1%)
Network and satellite operations costs (205.7) (235.6) (12.7%)
Other operating costs (174.1) (162.9) 6.9%
Own work capitalised 32.2 30.2 6.6%
Total operating costs (584.9) (613.1) (4.6%)
EBITDA 701.0 648.8 8.0%
EBITDA excluding LightSquared 625.8 639.8 (2.2%)
Depreciation and amortisation (291.8) (232.0) 25.8%
Loss on disposal of assets (1.2) (0.1) –
Acquisition-related adjustments – 4.6 (100.0%)
Impairment losses (1.3) (185.2) (99.3%)
Share of proﬁt of associates 2.6 2.3 13.0%
Operating proﬁt 409.3 238.4 71.7%
Finance income 8.1 4.9 65.3%
Finance expense (75.1) (54.2) 38.6%
Net ﬁnance expense (67.0) (49.3) 35.9%
Proﬁt before income tax 342.3 189.1 81.0%
Income tax expense (1.2) (86.5) (98.6%)
Proﬁt for the year 341.1 102.6 232.5%
GROUP RESULTS
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 38
2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRONG PERFORMANCE  
IN 2014 During the year ended 31 December 2014, total Group 
revenue increased by $24.0m (+1.9%) to $1,285.9m 
(2013: $1,261.9m). This was driven by increased 
revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation 
Agreement (+$63.1m) and underlying revenue growth 
in Maritime, Enterprise, A viation and other (+$57.7m 
combined), partially off-set by a further decline in our 
Government business revenue (-$88.4m) and the net 
impact of acquisitions and disposals (-$8.4m). 
T otal Group revenue in the year included global 
wholesale MSS revenue of $791.4m, 3.8% higher  
than in 2013 ($762.4m), with higher MSS revenue  
in Maritime and A viation more than offsetting the 
decline in our Government MSS revenue. 
Operating costs in the year decreased by $28.2m 
compared with 2013. Employee beneﬁt costs 
decreased by $7.5m (-3.1%) to $237.3m, and network 
and satellite operations costs reduced by $29.9m 
(-12.7%) to $205.7m. These reductions were partly 
due to the sale of our retail energy-related assets by 
Enterprise, as well as a reduction in our Government 
business workforce in the US in late 2013, partially 
offset by increased costs in Maritime as a result of  
the acquisition of Globe Wireless. 
EBITDA in the full year increased by $52.2m (+8.0%) 
to $701.0m (2013: $648.8m). The Group’ s EBITDA 
margin increased to 54.5%, from 51.4% in 2013, 
mainly reﬂecting the higher LightSquared revenue 
received and the disposal of low margin retail 
energy-related assets to RigNet.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by $59.8m  
to $291.8m (2013: $232.0m) reﬂecting the entry 
into service of Alphasat in November 2013 and of 
I-5 F1 in July 2014. There was no material impairment 
charge in the year (2013: $185.2m) and the Group 
operating proﬁt increased by $170.9m to $409.3m 
(2013: $238.4m).
The net ﬁnance charge in the year increased by 
$17.7m to $67.0m (2013: $49.3m), reﬂecting a 
number of one-off factors relating to the reﬁnancing 
of the Group’ s Senior Notes in the ﬁrst half, and to the 
adjustment to the expected maturity date on the 
Convertible Bonds. Although there was an increase  
in net debt during the year the underlying interest 
charge was broadly ﬂat, due to the lower average 
borrowing cost. Proﬁt before tax in the year was 
$342.3m (2013: $189.1m)
The tax charge for the year was $1.2m, a reduction  
of $85.3m (2013: $86.5m). This decrease was due 
primarily to the release of the $53.1m provision made 
in 2013 for a potential tax liability which arose in 
respect of the I-4 satellites. The HMRC review into  
this issue has now been concluded with no adjustment  
to our originally ﬁled position. Proﬁt after tax was 
$341.1m, compared to $102.6m in 2013, and basic 
earnings per share was 76 cents (2013: 23 cents).
LightSquared Cooperation Agreement
In December 2007, we entered into a Cooperation 
Agreement with LightSquared designed to enable 
ancillary terrestrial component (A TC) services in 
North America, while protecting the continued 
deployment and growth of our own MSS business.  
In May 2012, LightSquared ﬁled for a reorganisation 
under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code and  
is yet to complete a reorganisation process, so 
payments from LightSquared therefore continue  
to be subject to signiﬁcant uncertainty . 
On 31 March 2014, LightSquared elected to restart 
Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement. As a result, 
we received three payments totalling $31.6m due 
under the terms of the Cooperation Agreement.  
In addition, following a review at the end of the ﬁrst  
half, we recognised $43.8m of previously deferred 
income in relation to the Cooperation Agreement. 
T otal LightSquared revenue in the full year was 
therefore $75.4m, compared to $12.3m in 2013. 
At 31 December 2014, deferred income remaining in 
relation to the Cooperation Agreement of $208.8m 
was recorded on the balance sheet. Although the 
cash has been received, the timing of the recognition 
of this deferred income, together with any related 
future costs and taxes, remains uncertain. 
A payment of $17.5m due from LightSquared  
on 31 December 2014 under the terms of the 
Cooperation Agreement was not received on  
time. This payment was subsequently received on  
25 February 2015. However , this revenue was not 
recognised in 2014 but will be recognised in 2015.
Acquisitions and Disposals
In January we completed the $45.2m acquisition  
of Globe Wireless, a Florida-based provider of 
value-added maritime communications services  
to the shipping market. 
Maritime’s revenues in the year ended  
31 December 2014 included $55.1m due to the 
acquisition of Globe Wireless. The impact is shown 
net of intercompany eliminations and adjustments 
as Globe Wireless was an established distribution 
partner of Inmarsat; therefore the stand-alone 
results of Globe Wireless do not represent a 
corresponding increase in Group results.
This acquisition increased our installed customer 
base by over 6,000 ships and signiﬁcantly 
expanded our installation capabilities, to enable  
a faster roll-out of both XpressLink and GX to  
the maritime market, direct to end-users as well  
as through well-established channel partnerships.  
We also acquired a portfolio of industry-leading 
value-added services, moving us beyond pure 
connectivity and into solutions and managed 
services for maritime end-users.
In February we completed the sale of our retail 
energy operations to RigNet, a leading global 
provider of managed remote communications 
solutions to the oil and gas industry for a total 
consideration of $25m. 
The sale was part of a wider strategic transaction 
between the two companies, which also included  
the appointment of RigNet as a GX Value Added 
Reseller and as our L-band Distribution Partner for 
the energy sector. Under the transaction, RigNet 
acquired substantially all of Inmarsat’ s retail energy 
broadband assets, including microwave and WiMAX 
networks in the US, VSA T interests in the UK, US  
and Canada, and a telecommunications systems 
integration business operating globally, as well as the 
retail L-band energy business. This disposal reduced 
Enterprise revenue during the year by $63.5m. 
In December we announced the sale of our 19% 
holding in SkyWave Mobile Communications to 
ORBCOMM Inc. for total proceeds of $32.9m. 
ORBCOMM in turn entered into binding agreements 
to acquire 100% of SkyWave. The transaction 
closed in January 2015. The share sale was one  
part of a suite of agreements with ORBCOMM, a 
leading global provider of M2M solutions, covering 
the joint ownership and future development and 
commercialisation of the IsatData Pro (IDP) 
technology. This enables Inmarsat to enhance  
its M2M offering, further supporting the adoption  
of IDP in multiple new markets. As part of the 
agreements with ORBCOMM, we acquired 
SkyWave’ s satellite network assets, hosted at three 
Inmarsat Satellite Access Stations, for $7.5m.
(US$ in millions)
2014
Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation
Central
Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 27.2 1,210.5
LightSquared –––– 75.4 75.4
Total revenue 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 102.6 1,285.9
(US$ in millions)
2013
Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation
Central
Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 21.5 1,249.6
LightSquared –––– 12.3 12.3
Total revenue 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 33.8 1,261.9
REVENUES – BY REPORTING SEGMENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 39 MARITIME BUSINESS UNIT 
Maritime revenue in the year increased by  
$70.8m (+13.5%) to $595.6m (2013: $524.8m). 
This increase includes $55.1m due to the 
acquisition of Globe Wireless. 
Underlying revenue growth of $15.8m (+3.2%) 
reﬂected strong growth in our FleetBroadband  
(FB) revenues (+24%), and VSA T revenues (+26%), 
partially offset by a decline in the revenues from 
our legacy services, particularly the Fleet service 
(-19%). FB and VSA T together generated around 
two-thirds of Maritime’ s revenues in the year. 
At the end of the year there were 40,469 active 
Maritime FB ships connected, almost 13% higher 
than the base of 35,888 at the end of 2013. The 
strategic upselling of FB customers onto higher 
rate plans continued, and average wholesale  
ARPU per month increased by around 4%  
during the year. 
The installed VSA T base at the end of the year was 
2,019 ships, mainly comprising XpressLink (XL) 
customers, 23% higher than the total VSA T base  
of 1,636 ships at the same time in 2013. The 
installation run-rate run at the end of the year 
was around 40 new ships per month. Average 
VSA T wholesale ARPU in the year was broadly ﬂat.
The decline in legacy services was driven by  
price increases at the start of the year, which 
successfully accelerated customer migration onto 
our FB services. FB generates higher ARPU than 
Fleet and offers end users signiﬁcantly better service 
and value, particularly if their data use is growing. 
Operating costs for the year increased by $36.9m 
(+34.1%) compared to 2013, due primarily to the 
additional headcount and third-party network 
services costs incurred as a result of the  
acquisition of Globe Wireless. 
Maritime EBITDA increased by $33.9m (+8.1%) 
compared to the prior year, reﬂecting the higher 
gross margin generated by FB revenue, as well the 
acquisition of Globe Wireless. However, the EBITDA 
margin decreased to 75.6% (2013: 79.4%) due to 
Globe Wireless’ s lower margins. The 39.6% increase  
in depreciation and amortisation is also attributable 
to the acquisition of Globe Wireless. 
ENTERPRISE BUSINESS UNIT 
Enterprise underlying revenue for the year, excluding 
the impact of the sale of our retail energy related 
assets to RigNet in January, grew by $8.5m (+6.2%). 
Due to the impact of these disposals headline 
revenue fell by $54.9m (-24.8%) to $166.7m  
(2013: $221.6m). 
The increase in underlying revenue was driven by 
strong growth in machine to machine (M2M), FB  
and IsatPhone revenues, partially offset by lower 
BGAN revenues. M2M revenues grew by 30%, and 
Enterprise FB was 22% higher than in the previous 
year. The installed IsatPhone base grew by 23% to 
115,500 terminals, from 94,000 at the start of  
the year. 
BGAN revenue was down by 9% year-on-year.  
The decline slowed in the second half, as new high 
ARPU BGAN services such as High Data Rate (HDR) 
and Link, started to gain traction in the market.
The M2M business continued to grow strongly,  
and at the end of the year our total installed base 
across all four M2M product lines was over 292,000 
terminals. Our high ARPU BGAN M2M service grew 
particularly strongly, with the installed base over 
5,000 units at the end of the year, more than  
80% which are in the Resources sector. 
IsatPhone revenue grew strongly with growth  
in both post-pay and pre-pay . Revenues beneﬁtted 
from price changes on both pre- and post-pay 
standard plans, and migration of customers  
onto higher value packages. 
Operating costs decreased by $41.4m (-39.1%) 
compared to 2013, due to lower headcount and 
network services costs as a result of the disposal  
of our retail energy-related assets.
Enterprise EBITDA decreased by $13.5m (-11.7%)  
to $102.1m (2013: $115.6) primarily due to the 
disposal of our retail energy-related assets. 
However, the sale of these lower margin assets 
resulted in the Enterprise EBITDA margin  
increasing to 61.2%, from 52.2% in 2013.  
The fall in depreciation and amortisation is  
also attributable to the disposals of the  
retail energy-related assets. 
MARITIME BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Total revenue 595.6 524.8 13.5%
Operating costs (145.2) (108.3) 34.1%
EBITDA 450.4 416.5 8.1%
EBITDA margin % 75.6% 79.4%
Depreciation and amortisation (35.6) (25.5) 39.6%
Operating proﬁt 414.8 391.0 6.1%
ENTERPRISE BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Total revenue 166.7 221.6 (24.8%)
Operating costs (64.6) (106.0) (39.1%)
EBITDA 102.1 115.6 (11.7%)
EBITDA margin % 61.2% 52.2%
Depreciation and amortisation (0.2) (3.6) (94.4%)
Operating proﬁt 101.9 112.0 (9.0%)
SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE 
(US$m)
595.6
SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE 
(US$m)
166.7
595.6 166.7
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 40
2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED AVIATION BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS GOVERNMENT BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
AVIATION BUSINESS UNIT
Aviation revenue for the year grew by $27.7m 
(+37.7%) to $101.1m (2013: $73.4m). The growth  
was driven by strong sales of our SwiftBroadband 
(SB) and Classic Aero services, with SB growth  
in particular beneﬁtting from the impact of the 
‘take-or-pay’ contracts signed with several key 
distribution partners in mid-year. These contracts 
applied pricing discounts retrospectively to the  
start of the year, in return for minimum revenue 
commitments in the full year 2014 and in 2015, and 
they succeeded in generating substantial additional 
revenue in the fourth quarter, as the distribution 
partners concerned fulﬁlled their commitments. 
Growth was driven by higher sales of both our  
SB and Classic Aero services. SB active SIMS  
grew by almost 33% to 5,450 at the end of the  
year, the majority of these installed in the Business 
and General Aviation segment. Classic Aero active 
SIMS grew by just over 9% to 7,130 at the  
year-end. Aviation ARPU grew by nearly 23%  
to just over $1,000 per month. 
Operating costs increased by $7.7m to $13.9m 
(2013: $6.2m) due to higher employee-related 
costs and business development costs, as Aviation 
increased headcount signiﬁcantly and deployed 
additional resources to pursue major growth 
opportunities, in particular for cabin connectivity  
in the commercial aviation market.
Aviation EBITDA increased by $20.0m (+29.8%)  
to $87.2m (2013: $67.2m). However, the EBITDA 
margin decreased to 86.3% (2013: 91.6%) as a 
result of the increased headcount and associated 
business development costs. 
GOVERNMENT BUSINESS UNIT
Government revenue in the year decreased by 
$88.4m (-21.7%) to $319.9m (2013: $408.3m),  
due to further decline in Government revenues  
in the US. Government revenues outside the US 
increased by almost 1% in the year. 
Government revenue in the US continued to 
decline due to the combined impact of continued 
spending controls and reduced operational 
requirements following the withdrawal from 
Afghanistan. Certain contracts were not renewed,  
in particular for IP managed solutions, and other 
contracts were reduced in scale, with increased 
competitive intensity putting downward pressure 
on pricing. However, the rate of decline slowed 
signiﬁcantly during the fourth quarter. 
Among its traditional customers outside the  
US, Government saw similar revenue pressure 
resulting from spending controls and reduced 
operational requirements, including the withdrawals 
from Afghanistan. However, this was offset by 
increased revenues generated from new territories, 
with new contract wins in Latin America and Asia  
as well as some smaller European countries,  
and encouraging revenue growth in new product 
areas such as Assured Access and L-T AC. 
Operating costs in the year fell by $36.9m 
(-26.3%) to $103.5m (2013: $140.4m). 
Government’s operating costs in US Government 
declined substantially, due to the impact of a 
reduction in the workforce implemented in the 
business during 2013, as well as lower revenues. 
This was offset by an increase in operating costs 
outside the US, as the business continued to invest 
in expansion into a wide range of new markets. 
Total Government EBITDA in the year fell by  
$51.5m (-19.2%) to $216.4m (2013: $267.9m). 
However, the EBITDA margin improved to  
67.6% (2013: 65.6%), as a result both of the cost 
reductions in the US Government business as well  
as the improved revenue mix across the whole 
Government business. 
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Total revenue 319.9 408.3 (21.7%)
Operating costs (103.5) (140.4) (26.3%)
EBITDA 216.4 267.9 (19.2%)
EBITDA margin % 67.6% 65.6%
Depreciation and amortisation (9.3) (10.6) (12.3%)
Operating proﬁt 207.1 257.3 (19.5%)
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Total revenue 101.1 73.4 37.7%
Operating costs (13.9) (6.2) 124.2%
EBITDA 87.2 67.2 29.8%
EBITDA margin % 86.3% 91.6%
Depreciation and amortisation (2.1) (2.1) 0.0%
Operating proﬁt 85.1 65.1 30.7%
SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE 
(US$m)
101.1
SPLIT OF GROUP REVENUE 
(US$m)
319.9
101.1 319.9
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 41 and July 2014 respectively, and therefore starting  
to be depreciated from these dates. Impairment 
charges in the year were only $1.3m compared to  
the $185.2m charged in 2013.
OPERATING PROFIT 
As a result of the factors discussed above, operating 
proﬁt for the year was $409.3m, an increase of 
$170.9m (71.7%), compared with 2013. 
Central Services revenues and EBITDA for the year 
increased by $68.8m, and $63.3m respectively .  
The increase was due primarily to $75.4m of revenue 
recognised from LightSquared including $31.6m of 
cash payments as a result of LightSquared’ s election 
to restart Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement. 
The level of activity was intense throughout the  
year across both the Operations and Development  
and Engineering organisations. In Operations, the 
network integration of Alphasat and the build-up  
to the start of GX commercial services on I-5 F1 
following its successful launch in late 2013,  
were managed successfully. Inmarsat-2 F2 was 
decommissioned in December, more than  
23 years after launch. 
Service availability levels remained high across all of 
our networks, and over the 2014/15 New Y ear period 
we carried our highest volume of BGAN trafﬁc to 
date, with more than one million minutes switched, 
with a peak of 1,575 simultaneous calls.
In Development and Engineering, management of 
the highly intensive GX project brought I-5 F2 to 
successful launch on 1 February 2015, and I-5 F3  
is currently on schedule for launch in the second 
quarter of 2015. The construction of I-5 F4 and of 
our S-band satellite for European aviation both 
remain on schedule for completion in 2016. 
Despite the high levels of activity experienced across 
all of the Central Services functions, Operating costs 
in the full year were largely ﬂat at $257.7m (2013: 
$252.2m), with employee salary cost increases 
largely offset by foreign exchange gains and lower 
network operations costs. These included the impact 
of a major site rationalisation project, which reduced 
the number of ground stations at which we operate.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by  
$54.4m to $244.6m (2013: $190.2m) primarily 
resulting from our Alphasat and I-5 F1 satellites 
entering commercial service in November 2013  
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Increase/
(decrease)
Revenue
LightSquared 75.4 12.3 513.0%
Other 27.2 21.5 26.5%
Total revenue 102.6 33.8 203.6%
Operating 
costs (257.7) (252.2) 2.2%
EBITDA (155.1) (218.4) 29.0%
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation (244.6) (190.2) 28.6%
Impairment 
losses (1.3) (185.2) (99.3%)
Other 1.4 6.8 (79.4%)
Operating 
proﬁt (399.6) (587.0) 31.9%
(US$ in millions)
Year ended 31 December
2014 2013
Increase/
(decrease)
Operating 
proﬁt 409.3 238.4 71.7%
Net ﬁnance 
expense (67.0) (49.3) 35.9%
Income tax 
expense (1.2) (86.5) (98.6%)
Proﬁt after 
tax 341.1 102.6 232.5%
CENTRAL SERVICES  
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING 
PROFIT TO PROFIT AFTER TAX
NET FINANCE EXPENSE 
The net ﬁnance charge in the year increased by 
$17.7m to $67.0m (2013: $49.3m), reﬂecting a 
number of one-off factors including the redemption 
premium and other costs payable on the reﬁnancing 
of the Group’ s Senior Notes in the ﬁrst half ($35.3m 
in total) and the recognition of a non-recurring 
credit on the Convertible Bonds (see below). In 
addition, there was a reduction of $37.2m in the 
amount of interest capitalised as a result of our 
Alphasat satellite entering commercial service in 
November 2013, and a $14.3m reversal of capitalised 
interest as a consequence of the non-recurring 
credit in respect of the Convertible Bonds.
CONVERTIBLE BOND INTEREST
The ﬁnal date for holders of our 1.75% Convertible 
Bonds to exercise their option to convert was  
16 November 2014, when bonds with an accreted 
principal value of $0.9m were redeemed. The 
maturity date of the remaining bonds has been 
amended to their due date of 16 November 2017 
and, as a result, the accreted carrying value of the 
outstanding borrowings was reduced and a credit  
to interest expense of $48.5m was recognised. 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
The tax charge for 2014 was $1.2m, a decrease  
of $85.3m compared with 2013. Proﬁt before tax 
increased from $189.1m to $342.3m but the tax 
impact of increasing proﬁts was more than offset by 
the release in 2014 of a $53.1m provision for potential 
tax liabilities that had been recognised in 2013. This 
provision was released in 2014 as the HMRC review 
into this matter has now been concluded. 
The effective tax rate for 2014 was 0.4% compared  
to 45.7% for 2013. Excluding the impact of the 
$185.2m of impairment losses on proﬁt before tax  
in 2013, the revaluation of UK deferred tax balances 
following the reduction of the UK main rate of 
corporation tax, the impact of current year non-UK 
losses and other temporary differences for which the 
beneﬁt was not previously recognised, and the impact 
of the provision for potential tax liabilities described 
above, the effective tax rates would have been  
20.7% for 2014 and 22.2% for 2013. The remaining 
difference arises primarily from the reduction in the  
UK main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21%. 
While the reduction did not become effective until  
1 April 2014, this has the effect of lowering the average 
UK statutory rate applicable to current year taxable 
proﬁts to 21.5% (2013: 23.25%).
PROFIT AFTER TAX
Proﬁt after tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 
was $341.1m (2013: $102.6m). 
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per share for proﬁt 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
were 76 cents and 69 cents, respectively (2013: 23 
cents and 23 cents, respectively). Basic and diluted 
earnings per share adjusted to exclude the after- 
tax effect of the LightSquared contribution and 
impairment losses, and the effects of a provision for 
potential tax liabilities which had been recognised  
in 2013 and released in 2014, were 51 cents and  
45 cents, respectively (2013: 69 cents and  
68 cents, respectively).
DIVIDENDS
The Inmarsat plc Board of Directors intends to 
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 30.26 cents per 
share in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2014 (2013: 28.82 cents), to be paid on 29 May 
2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register of 
members at the close of business on 15 May 2015. 
Shareholders will be asked to approve the ﬁnal 
dividend payment at the Annual General Meeting  
to be held on 6 May 2015. Dividend payments will  
be made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange 
rate prevailing in the London market four business 
days prior to payment. 
The 2014 ﬁnal dividend is not recorded as a liability  
in the ﬁnancial statements at 31 December 2014. The 
total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the 
year ended 31 December 2014 equals 48.94 cents 
per ordinary share, an increase of 5% over 2013. 
GROUP CASH FLOW
During the year, free cash ﬂow was $150.1m  
(2013: -$84.4m). The increase is primarily due  
to a reduction in capital expenditure and higher 
EBITDA in 2014. The movement in working capital  
of $64.8m is largely due to the release of $43.8m  
of LightSquared deferred revenue to the income 
statement during the year and a prepayment of 
future SpaceX launch fees.
Capital expenditure decreased by $175.2m 
compared with 2013, primarily due to the timing  
of expenditure in relation to the Global Xpress 
programme and the completion of substantially  
all of our Alphasat capital expenditure by the  
end of 2013. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 42
2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED GROUP LIQUIDITY  
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
At 31 December 2014, the Group had cash and cash 
equivalents of $204.4m and available but undrawn 
borrowing facilities of $990.0m under our Senior 
Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facility . 
The Group maintains tax provisions in respect of 
ongoing enquiries with tax authorities. If all such 
enquiries were settled as currently provided for, we 
estimate the Group would incur a cash tax outﬂow 
of approximately $80m. Any cash outﬂow would be 
unlikely to be incurred until late 2016. The enquiries 
remain ongoing at this time. 
The net increase in current assets of $68.4m is  
due to a number of factors including an increase in 
cash and cash equivalents of $60.1m to $204.4m, 
and an increase in prepayments of $37.8m, which 
includes SpaceX prepaid launch fees for future 
satellite missions, including I-5 F4. Further, included 
in current assets at 31 December 2014 were assets 
held for sale in respect of the Skywave disposal, 
remeasured to fair value of $32.9m. Partially 
offsetting these increases was the disposal of  
assets used in our energy business to RigNet,  
which reduced working capital balances (speciﬁcally 
assets held for sale) by $42.8m during the year.
The decrease in current liabilities of $356.1m relates 
primarily to the reclassiﬁcation of the Convertible 
Bonds from current to non-current liabilities 
($328.6m) during the year. The bonds were classiﬁed 
as current liabilities at the end of 2013 because the 
holders had the right to require the Company to 
redeem all of the bonds at their accreted principal 
amount on 16 November 2014 and that was 
considered the most likely redemption date. However , 
only $0.9m of the bonds were redeemed on that  
date with the remaining bonds maturing on  
16 November 2017. 
Other signiﬁcant changes to current liabilities since 
2013 are the disposal of the held for sale liabilities  
of $19m which represented the energy assets sold  
to RigNet during the year and a decrease in trade 
and other payables of $40.8m due to the release  
of $43.8m of deferred income in relation to the 
LightSquared Cooperation agreement. Deferred 
revenue from LightSquared now stands at $208.8m 
(2013: $252.6m).
The increase in non-current liabilities of $443.9m  
is due to an increase in non-current borrowings  
of $429.0m to $1,987.0m during the year. There 
were two main components of the increase; the 
reclassiﬁcation of the Convertible Bonds from 
current liabilities to non-current liabilities, which 
added $301.3m as at 31 December 2014, and the 
issue of $1.0bn of Senior Notes due 2022 in June 
2014 to replace the $850m of Senior Notes due 
2017 held by the Group at 31 December 2013. 
TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
5 March 2015
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
The increase in the Group’ s non-current assets of 
$154.7m is largely due to our ongoing investment in  
the Global Xpress infrastructure and the development 
of our new S-band programme that will deliver 
high-speed broadband services to aviation passengers 
across the European Union by the end of 2016. Over 
$330m was invested in these two programmes during 
2014. This was offset by depreciation of $165.2m. 
Other signiﬁcant movements in non-current assets 
were related to intangible assets, including goodwill 
of $14.7m, recognised on the acquisition of Globe 
Wireless, offset by the reclassiﬁcation of our $23.5m 
investment in Skywave from non-current assets to 
current assets held for sale, in advance of the 
disposal in January 2015. 
(US$ in millions)
Year ended  
31 December
2014 2013
EBITDA 701.0 648.8
Non-cash items 17.2 15.9
Change in net working capital (64.8) (49.9)
Cash generated from operations 653.4 614.8
Capital expenditure (405.7) (580.9)
Net cash interest paid (88.1) (98.0)
Cash tax paid (9.5) (20.3)
Free cash ﬂow 150.1 (84.4)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments (46.2) (3.3)
Proceeds on disposal of assets 27.5 0.5
Dividends paid to shareholders (212.9) (200.5)
Other movement including foreign exchange 1.0 (0.5)
Net cash ﬂow (80.5) (288.2)
Opening net borrowings 1,812.8 1,489.3
Net cash ﬂow 80.5 288.2
Other
(1)
7.4 35.3
Closing net borrowings 1,900.7 1,812.8
(1) Other includes a non-recurring credit to re-base the convertible bonds and the impact of deferred ﬁnancing costs. 
GROUP CASH FLOW
The table below shows the condensed consolidated Group Balance Sheet at 31 December 2014  
and 2013:
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Non-current assets 3,510.9 3,356.2
Current assets 581.0 512.6
Total assets 4,091.9 3,868.8
Current liabilities (682.7) (1,038.8)
Non-current liabilities (2,226.1) (1,782.2)
Total liabilities (2,908.8) (2,821.0)
Net assets 1,183.1 1,047.8
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 43 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW
The Board believes that corporate and social 
responsibility is an important part of the Group’ s 
culture and that the adoption of good practice will 
have a positive impact on the business. Ensuring  
we act in an ethical manner, taking account of our 
responsibilities – socially and environmentally – is 
important in the way we operate and interact with 
our stakeholders, including investors, employees, 
suppliers and business partners.
CODES OF CONDUCT
Our Code of Ethics expects Directors, ofﬁcers and 
employees to conduct business in accordance  
with the highest standards of personal and 
professional integrity . A copy of our Code is 
published on our website.
We comply with local laws where we operate and 
across our Group, we ensure our employees comply 
with UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign and Corrupt 
Practices Act. Details of our anti-bribery policy can 
be found on our website. As part of our commitment 
to preventing bribery and establishing a culture  
that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in 
whatever form it may be encountered, we ask our 
Directors, employees and contractors to conﬁrm 
annually that they understand the restrictions 
outlined in the policy and the implications for 
breaching the policy for the business and them as 
individuals. Our anti-bribery policy operates in line 
with guidance provided by the UK Ministry of Justice 
and complies with current legislation. The policy  
also incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts  
and accepting and giving hospitality . 
W e have separate policies in place dealing with ethics, 
fraud, the use of inside information and whistleblowing. 
Directors, employees and contractors are asked once 
a year to conﬁrm that they understand these policies 
and how they are applied.
We recently put in place updated arrangements  
for a worldwide anonymous telephone service for 
employees to use if they have any concerns. We are 
pleased to report that the external provider has not 
received any calls.
W e have recently established a Global Procurement 
and Supply Management structure designed to 
support the organisation, both today and in the 
future. We buy a wide range of goods and services 
and need reliable, high-performing suppliers across  
all aspects of our supply chain. We will progressively 
work to ensure that all our suppliers adhere to our 
standards of ethical behaviour , environmental, health 
and safety and other relevant working practises.
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR:
 > MAINTAINING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 
OF PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL 
INTEGRITY
 > COMPLETED GLOBAL STAFF SURVEY – 
PART OF THE ‘YEAR OF ENGAGEMENT’
 > CONTINUING INVESTMENT IN MARITIME 
AND A VIATION SAFETY SERVICES
 > CONTINUING KEY CHARITABLE 
COMMITMENTS
 > NEW TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMME FOR STEM-BASED 
GRADUATES
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 44
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OUR CONTINUED  
COMMITMENT The procurement and supply management function 
will manage our global procurement activity which 
has a signiﬁcant annual expenditure across multiple 
countries. We will do this via both central and local 
procurement teams who are working to the same 
high standards and best practises. In addition 
common expenditure across the Company will 
increasingly be managed and governed using a 
Group-led category management approach. This 
allows us to leverage scale and achieve better prices 
and terms and conditions.
EMPLOYMENT
We recognise the importance of diversity amongst 
our employees and are committed to ensuring that 
employees are selected and promoted on the basis 
of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, 
religion, sexual orientation or disability . The gender 
split across the Group (excluding contingency 
workers) as at March 2015 is illustrated in the  
table below:
We do not discriminate against anyone who has  
a disability when considering career development 
opportunities. If an employee becomes disabled whilst 
working for us, we would review the requirements of 
their working environment to accommodate practical 
changes as far as possible to allow them to continue 
in their daily work routine. If such changes were 
unrealistic to implement, we would review alternative 
employment options for the individual within  
the Company . 
We have elected employee forums in the UK  
and Batam in Indonesia, a Works Council in the 
Netherlands and an Enterprise Agreement in Perth, 
Australia and during 2015 we are actively preparing  
to launch an international employee forum. These 
groups extend two-way communications between 
employees and management and allow the views  
of employees to be taken into account in making 
decisions which may affect their interests. In the UK, 
the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in 
accordance with prevailing legislation to provide  
the formal means of consultation on contractual 
matters, as and when required. In the Netherlands, 
the Works Council is constituted according to  
local requirements.
We have well established Values and Qualities which 
operate throughout the business. These are part  
of the induction process for our employees and  
are covered too as part of our induction process  
for Directors, including our Non-Executive Directors.  
Our values of Passion, Openness, being Enterprising 
and Market-Driven are captured on pages 10 and 25.  
The essence of them is ‘how’ people reﬂect these 
values in dealing with each other as colleagues  
and any third party . The qualities of how we engage 
contribute to reward generally, whether through 
bonus awards or promotion opportunities.
2014 was what we termed our Y ear of Engagement 
with staff. Early in the year we undertook a global 
staff survey with a 94% response rate which our 
advisers, Hay Group, said exceeded the average 
they would see for similar workforces, which would be 
around 82%. We identiﬁed several core strengths:
 > high levels of conﬁdence in the future of the 
Company and its offering;
 > clear job expectations and overall good 
understanding of the strategy;
 > people are generally proud to work for  
Inmarsat; and
 > there is a strong foundation for achieving  
the strategy at Inmarsat.
While there were some strong positive messages, we 
have some areas where we can improve which are 
noted below: 
 > whilst there is a good level of understanding of the 
strategy overall, we need to ensure we clearly 
explain it to all staff;
 > we need to improve the ability for staff to get the 
job done by ensuring they have the right 
resources, systems and processes in place;
 > we need to enhance our communications to 
stimulate engagement across the business;
 > coaching our line managers will help them fulﬁl 
better their managerial responsibilities; and
 > we are focused on ensuring we benchmark and 
pay our staff fairly and reward them based on 
ﬁnancial results for the business and importantly 
‘how’ to fulﬁl their objectives. 
Description Male Female
Board 85% 15%
Executive  
Management Board 75% 25%
Leadership Team 82% 18%
All employees 70% 30%
The percentage of females on the Executive 
Management Board and wider leadership  
team represent the deﬁnition as set out in the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills  
(BIS) requirements.
W e have a policy of promoting employees internally 
where possible and, where it makes sense for the 
business and the individual’ s personal development 
and career enhancement, we will consider moving 
employees to different ofﬁce locations. We have 
established policies which address key corporate 
objectives in the management of employee relations, 
communications and employee involvement, training 
and personal development and equal opportunities. 
Employees are assisted in their career development 
through an annual appraisal scheme, and training  
is provided to support this. 
Employee effectiveness is measured through their: 
 > engagement with the business – their 
commitment and level of discretionary effort; and 
 > enablement through having the right tools to do 
their work, in a supportive environment. 
We believe increasing employee effectiveness  
drives the fulﬁlment of employee development 
potential, motivation and happiness. This enables  
us to attract and retain talent so delivering 
enhanced employee performance. 
Following the survey, we held staff brieﬁngs across  
all the divisions with detailed plans for following  
up across individual areas. We followed up with  
six workstreams focused on corporate-wide  
activities covering:
 > Systems and processes;
 > Communications;
 > Leadership;
 > Staff learning and development;
 > Performance and reward; and
 > Resources.
 > Implementing the strategy
 > Barriers to getting the job done
 > Leadership and communications
 > Improve line manager capability
 > Deliver on promises  
(training, career development)
 > Pay and reward
THE KEY CHALLENGES ARE:
We believe increasing employee effectiveness 
drives the fulﬁlment of employee development 
potential, motivation and happiness. This enables 
us to attract and retain talent so delivering 
enhanced employee performance.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 45 The efforts and contributions of the teams of people 
who have been involved in the workstreams and 
those across the business in implementing action 
plans have led to 2015 as our ‘Y ear of Enablement’. 
We have already identiﬁed key areas of focus for 
2015 which we expect to lead onto continued efforts 
in 2016 and beyond:
 > undertake a ‘Pulse’ Survey in early 2015 to  
follow up on the 2014 staff survey, asking how 
have we improved;
 > a new framework for how we grade our staff  
across the global business will be introduced 
during the year;
 > we will be undertaking a career development 
matrix which staff can use to create an 
understanding of different career paths in  
the business;
 > we are launching a leadership programme for the 
Global Leadership Team (approximately 50 staff);
 > a widely available management development 
programme is available to all managers across 
the business;
 > improving the quality of performance reviews  
to take account of our values and qualities; 
 > enhancing our on-line HR employee systems; and 
 > launching an International Staff Forum. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update 
on health and safety activity across the Group. 
Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been identiﬁed as having 
responsibility for health and safety issues within  
the Group. We have a dedicated Health and Safety 
Manager who is located in our headquarters ofﬁce 
and our subsidiary operations have identiﬁed 
managers responsible for health and safety  
across their operations. 
Our goal is to encourage strong leadership in 
championing the importance of, and a common-
sense approach to health and safety in the 
workplace. We recognise the need to provide a safe 
working environment for our employees, contractors 
and any visitors. Regular health and safety audits are 
undertaken at operating sites across the Group. 
Across the Group, we had 15 accidents or near 
misses reported, and again we had no fatalities. 
During the year we undertook the following 
occupational health activities: 
 > a global cancer awareness programme which  
was well received throughout the business;
 > we launched our corporate, health, safety and 
welling programme via Nebula (our online training 
platform) and are pleased this has continued to 
be popular with staff; 
 > a Pedometer Challenge gave staff the opportunity 
to monitor their steps over a two-week period with 
some very healthy numbers being recorded; and
 > a successful Annual Health and Wellbeing Day  
held in November across all Group ofﬁces. 
We have identiﬁed four continuing health and  
safety priorities based on business activities  
and the potential harm to staff:
 > Musculoskeletal disorders and DSE  
(display screen equipment) related ill health;
 > Working at height;
 > Manual handling; and
 > Lone working.
We provide training and awareness materials to  
staff providing them with information on how to  
deal with these speciﬁc areas of work.
We received news early in 2015 that we have  
been awarded an International Safety Award by  
the British Safety Council (BSC). We are delighted  
to be recipients of this award which the BSC says 
demonstrates a commitment to the health, safety 
and wellbeing of our workforce during 2014.
EDUCATION
We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat  
Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the 
World Maritime University which supports the 
education of maritime specialists. We encourage 
internships with schools and universities to provide 
students with the opportunity to experience 
ﬁrst-hand the engineering and technical  
aspects of satellite operations. 
We have been awarded 
an International Safety 
Award by the British 
Safety Council. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 46
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED T op science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) students from London’ s 
leading Further Education College, City and  
Islington College, successfully completed Inmarsat’ s 
inaugural 2014 Summer Strategy Challenge.  
A selection of 11 high-performing Sixth Form  
College and Applied Science students were tasked  
to consider where the future of aviation connectivity 
lay and present their ﬁndings at the ﬁnal seminar. 
The six-week programme included weekly workshops 
at our head ofﬁce, enabling students to gain 
invaluable knowledge from experts within the ﬁeld  
of satellite communications and also to research 
their own ideas. We received positive feedback from  
the College and students themselves. Following on 
from this success, we were delighted to be awarded 
the College’ s 'Employer of the Y ear' award for the 
Summer Strategy Challenge programme.
We are also investing in the careers of future 
engineers with an exciting new T echnology 
Development Programme, designed to provide newly 
qualiﬁed STEM-based graduates with a platform  
to develop a career in satellite communications.  
The unique graduate scheme conﬁrms Inmarsat’ s 
commitment to supporting and enabling the next 
generation of world-class engineers. It includes a 
two-year tailored programme of continuous learning 
and development, with the continuation of 
employment within a technology focused  
team after these two years.
Since the United Nations declared 4-10 October 
World Space Week in 1999, the annual celebration 
of space science and technology has grown into  
a signiﬁcant public event. For the 2014 edition 
‘Space: Guiding Y our Way, ’ Inmarsat helped extend 
global awareness of the role that space-enabled 
navigation technology and satellite communications 
plays in our lives and encouraged young people  
to learn about the potential career opportunities 
that are open to them. By sponsoring the ofﬁcial 
World Space Week poster, which was distributed to 
thousands of schools and colleges around the world; 
creating educational materials for teachers and 
running a series of workshops for children linking  
our sponsorship of the Volvo Ocean Race (VOR) with  
World Space Week, we brought to life how satellite 
technology supports the seven race teams in the 
VOR with crucial communications and keeps them 
safe by constantly pinpointing their location as  
they chart their way around the world.
PARTNERSHIPS
The work our partners undertake with local companies 
and charities are examples of the wider inﬂuence of 
our services and we’re delighted how these can have 
an impact socially and environmentally . 
An important partnership we announced during 
2014 was the signing of a Memorandum of 
Agreement with the Global eHealth Foundation.  
As a Partner to the Foundation, our services can  
help support the development, trial and delivery of 
innovative telemedicine initiatives around the world. 
The move aims to connect healthcare specialists 
across the world with patients in sub-Saharan Africa 
and other remote locations, helping to break down 
healthcare barriers.
The Global eHealth Foundation wants to start a 
technology-enabled healthcare revolution by 
working with governments to coordinate funding, 
education, technology and advocacy . It aims to 
drive policy and provide access to health services  
in underserved communities. Using innovative 
mobile phone apps and best practice models, the 
Foundation hopes to transform health services  
in the developing world and promote the 
development of integrated e-health systems. 
We are also investing  
in the careers of  
future engineers  
with an exciting new 
T echnology Development 
Programme, designed  
to provide newly qualiﬁed 
STEM-based graduates 
with a platform to 
develop a career in 
satellite communications. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 47 Our core charitable 
support remains focused 
on the work carried  
out by Télécoms  
Sans Frontières. 
We continue to invest  
in the development of 
Maritime safety services.
COMMUNITY
Our maritime heritage plays a key reminder to us of how 
we have supported mariners and the wider maritime 
community for over 35 years and remain focused on 
doing so in the future. Our key activities are:
 > we remain the only approved provider of satellite 
communications services for GMDSS and we 
continue to invest in the development of  
maritime safety services; 
 > our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues  
to be used to provide vital updates on reported 
pirate activity. The service enables ship masters 
to access reports of pirate movements, giving 
them information to know which regions to avoid 
with high pirate activity and allowing them to 
re-route if necessary; 
 > our safety services supported around 750 calls 
made from vessels with safety, distress or urgency 
requirements, providing a very real reminder to  
us of the value of what we provide to those in 
need; and
 > the 2014-15 Volvo Ocean Race, where Inmarsat 
is the airtime provider, relies on our safety 
services for the crews to maintain communication 
at all times, wherever they are. FleetBroadband, 
Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all 
standard equipment. Please see page 31 for 
details of how our IsatPhone 2 was used in an 
emergency when one of the boats ran aground. 
In addition to maritime safety services, we also 
promote safety services to the aviation industry  
for use in the cockpit. We remain committed to the 
provision of ICAO approved satellite safety services, 
and we invested in and upgraded the ground 
infrastructure that supports our Aero Classic safety 
services and are expanding our safety offerings to 
our SwiftBroadband service. We are supportive  
of the announcement that has come following the 
resolution made in early 2015 by ICAO, the United 
Nations aviation body tasked with monitoring the 
global aviation industry, to adopt a new 15-minute 
aircraft tracking standard. It is our desire to 
contribute to ICAO’ s work by sharing our experiences 
with them. We believe that our existing and already 
available technology is one solution highly suitable 
to many operational aviation circumstances today .
During the year, we made no political donations. In 
2013 our contributions included a pre-payment of our 
2014 commitments for the telecommunications relief 
aid organisation, Télécoms Sans Frontières (TSF)  
of $200,000 and a payment of $118,000 to the 
World Maritime University as part of our support  
for the education of maritime specialists. As these  
two pre-payments represent the majority of  
our charitable payments, the amount paid in  
2014 was $53,916. In addition, we provide satellite 
telecommunications services and equipment, in 
conjunction with support offered by our DPs and 
manufacturers, to service providers and customers  
in support of disaster relief management in affected 
areas of the world. Our subsidiary companies also 
make contributions to local charitable causes. 
Our core charitable support remains focused on the 
work carried out by TSF , the telecommunications 
relief aid organisation. TSF runs programmes on 
disaster relief and preparedness, training other relief 
organisations and regional and national disaster 
response agencies about the available capabilities 
for emergency telecommunications. TSF help these 
organisations respond to an emergency knowing 
they have the necessary training to use BGAN 
terminals and IsatPhones, our handheld satellite 
phone. We believe the work TSF does is vital in 
emergency situations and we are delighted to 
continue to support them. 
TSF were active in multiple countries during the  
year including:
 > a UN-organised exercise in Argentina which 
brought together members of the United Nations 
Disaster Assessment and Coordination division 
and its humanitarian partners;
 > with the UN and active NGOs in the Philippines 
before deploying to the country's most affected 
disaster zones;
 > setting up a deployment base in Nicaragua in 
Central America;
 > being part of the Malagasy government disaster 
simulation for the National Bureau of Risk and 
Disaster Management of Madagascar;
 > monitoring the situation of Kurdish refugees  
on the Turkish-Syrian border; and
 > setting up a new e-learning centre in Iraq. 
Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support 
the use of our services, normally payphones, in  
rural villages in remote regions of the world, where 
terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent. 
We maintain our support for the International 
T elecommunications Union (ITU) in various ways. 
During 2014, we signed an MoU with ITU-D in the 
framework of the Smart Sustainable Development 
Model which aims to foster the use of satellite 
broadband services in remote or under-developed 
areas. It promotes the use by local communities of 
satellite terminals and spare airtime that are in place 
as a contingency for disaster relief when they are not 
required for relief operations. Under the MoU, the ITU 
procures terminals, we provide spare capacity and 
local communities provide suitable locations (e.g. a 
school/community centre). We have committed to 
$100,000 worth of airtime over a three-year period 
which will start to be drawn against when the ITU 
identiﬁes a project in a suitable community .
In addition to our corporate sponsorship of TSF ,  
our Business Units identify speciﬁc charities and 
sponsorship opportunities and details of these are 
provided on our website, inmarsat.com, under the 
press release section.
Our global ofﬁces support local causes at a 
corporate and employee level and we encourage 
staff to get involved in local community initiatives. 
Employees across our ofﬁces are encouraged to 
support individual charities of their choice, and  
for employees in our principal UK ofﬁce, this is 
encouraged through the UK Government’ s tax 
approved contributions scheme. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 48
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT
The activities of the Group are judged to have a low 
environmental impact and are not expected to give 
rise to any signiﬁcant, inherent environmental risks 
over the next 12 months.
We are not a satellite modem manufacturer. We  
only type approve satellite terminals accessing our 
system by manufacturers who provide health and 
safety guidance as to how terminals should be 
utilised. Controls are in place to ensure that 
antennae do not radiate any power at low elevation 
angles. We manufacture our handheld satellite 
phones, IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2. The design 
and manufacturing processes have met all the 
relevant safety standards and disposal requirements 
are included in the packaging for each handset.
Across our Group companies, we operate a number 
of ground earth stations, VSA T and telemetry and 
tracking facilities where there are satellite dishes 
which generate radiation. Access to these sites is 
restricted and there are regular health and safety 
checks to ensure that they are in protected areas 
away from access by the general public. Personnel 
who work at these sites are provided with relevant 
training as to health and safety issues.
As a satellite operator, we have adopted the  
highest industry standards in terms of space  
debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard 
manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when 
they reach the end of their commercial life. We 
disposed of our ﬁnal Inmarsat-2 satellite in 2014. 
The previous three Inmarsat-2 satellites had been 
deorbited in 2013, 2012 and 2007. Their disposal 
was undertaken in full compliance with the relevant 
ITU standards. We also decommissioned a satellite 
we operated for an Asian partner in early 2015. There 
are no near-term plans for decommissioning any  
of the remaining satellites. We operate our satellites 
in geosynchronous orbit which is approximately 
36,000km (22,500 miles) above the earth. This orbit 
has signiﬁcantly less debris than in a low earth orbit 
which is approximately 700km above the earth and 
where several MSS operators have their satellite 
constellations. We were also a founding member  
of the Space Data Association. Along with Intelsat, 
SES and Eutelsat we aim to improve the satellite 
safety of ﬂight and make operations in space safer 
and more reliable.
W e have approximately 1,600 staff worldwide 
represented by more than 45 different nationalities. 
Due to the size and nature of these activities, we 
acknowledge that we have a degree of environmental 
impact on the local and global environment. However , 
in terms of our size, we are low generators of carbon 
due to the nature of our business operations.
Some of these environmental impacts include the 
use of natural resources, the consumption of energy 
and water, the production of a variety of waste, in 
addition to staff and visitors travelling for business 
purposes around the globe.
We acknowledge that we have an impact on the 
local and global environment. However, in terms  
of our size, we are low generators of carbon due  
to the nature of our business operations.
Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not 
have any detrimental effect on the environment 
through our business operations. Our mission is to 
adopt and support the following principles:
 > to provide ﬁrst class energy and environmental 
management practices;
 > to comply with all relevant global environmental 
legislation and regulatory controls;
 > to identify signiﬁcant environmental and social 
impacts and establish objectives and targets  
for improvement;
 > in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% 
of generated waste and to constantly to review 
the opportunity to use recycled products;
 > to actively encourage the conservation of 
energy, water and natural resources through  
the increased efﬁciency and introduction of  
new and modern technology; and
 > to encourage all employees to be proactive  
in their daily activities by:
 – separating their waste into dry and wet waste 
receptacles (currently UK and Canadian sites 
and we are reviewing introduction globally);
 – ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled;
 – switching off lights, computers, phone 
chargers and any other electrical items  
when not in use; and
 – reducing business travel and using more 
site-based technology such as video and  
audio conferencing.
We continue to monitor our energy consumptions 
and comply with our social and legal responsibilities 
in terms of carbon emissions. Please see our 
summary of carbon emissions within the Directors’ 
Report on page 54. 
Energy efﬁciency is one of the key considerations 
when replacing obsolete and inefﬁcient machinery . 
We continue to review new technologies and  
control building operational strategies, which may 
include using energy efﬁcient lights to reduce 
electricity consumption. 
We continue to be committed to our waste 
management and recycling scheme.
Video conferencing (VC) and other collaboration 
tools allowing visual connectivity are being used to 
reduce the dependency on air transport and are a 
popular means of communication with staff working 
in different locations and across different time zones. 
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
5 March 2015
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1  
to 49, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board
ALISON HORROCKS
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT – CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY SECRETARY
5 March 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 49 6. 7. 5.
1. 2.
11.
3.
10.
14. 13.
12.
1.  Andrew Sukawaty
2.  Rupert Pearce
3.  T ony Bates
4.  Simon Bax
5.  Sir Bryan Carsberg 
6.  Stephen Davidson
7.  Kathleen Flaherty
8.  General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd)
9.  Ambassador Janice Obuchowski
10.  Dr Abraham Peled
11.  John Rennocks
12.  Robert Ruijter
13.  Dr Hamadoun T ouré
14.     Alison Horrocks
 (Company Secretary)
4.
9.
8.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 50
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
STRONG LEADERSHIP 1. ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
Date of Appointment: Chairman – December 2003 
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – March 2004 – December 2011 
Executive Chairman – January 2012 – December 2014 
Non-Executive Chairman – January 2015 
Committee Membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Background and relevant experience: Andy served as Non-Executive 
Chairman of Ziggo N.V . until November 2014. He has previously been President 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless 
carrier and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of NTL Limited. He has also held various 
management positions with US West and A T&T and been a Non-Executive 
Director on various listed companies. Andy holds a BBA and MBA respectively 
from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Sky plc and  
Executive-in-Residence for Warburg Pincus.
2. RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Date of Appointment: Executive Director – July 2011 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – January 2012
Background and relevant experience: Rupert joined Inmarsat in January 2005 
as Group General Counsel and from January 2009, additionally held the position 
of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat Enterprises. Previously, Rupert worked for  
Atlas Venture, where he was a partner working with the ﬁrm’ s European and US 
investment teams. He was also a partner at the international law ﬁrm Linklaters, 
where he spent 13 years specialising in corporate ﬁnance, mergers and 
acquisitions and private equity transactions. Rupert received an MA (First Class) 
in Modern History from Oxford University and won the 1995 Fulbright Fellowship in 
US securities law, studying at the Georgetown Law Center. He has been a visiting 
fellow of the Imperial College Business School, London lecturing on the school’ s 
Entrepreneurship programme, and is the co-author of ‘Raising Venture  
Capital’ (Wiley).
External Appointments: None.
3. TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Date of Appointment: June 2014
Background and relevant experience: T ony was previously the Group CFO  
of hibu plc (previously Y ell Group Plc) where he played a leading role in the 
multi-billion pound reﬁnancing of the Group and in the delivery of a much  
lower cost operating model. Prior to hibu, T ony was Chief Operating Ofﬁcer  
of Colt Group S.A., the pan-European business telecoms operator, where he  
was responsible for the Finance function from 2003 to 2009. His previous  
senior management experience was mainly with EMI Group plc, latterly as  
Group Finance Director. T ony holds a First Class BSc in Management  
Sciences from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and T echnology .  
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External Appointments: None.
4. SIMON BAX
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2013
Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee;  
Chairman of the Committee effective May 2015 
Background and relevant experience: Simon Bax was, from 2008 to 2013, 
CEO of Encompass Digital Media Inc, which provides technical services to 
broadcasters, cable networks and government agencies. He previously served  
as CFO and Executive Vice President of Pixar Animation and CFO and President  
of Studio Operations of Fox Filmed Entertainment. Mr Bax holds an honours 
degree in History from Cambridge University and is a chartered accountant.
External Appointments: Chairman of Archant Ltd; and Non-Executive Director  
of MobiTV Inc, and Pulsant Ltd; Director of the British Bobsleigh and Skeleton 
Association; A member of the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences 
and the British Academy of Film and T elevision Arts.
5. SIR BRYAN CARSBERG
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2005
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees
Background and relevant experience: Sir Bryan is a Chartered Accountant.  
He spent eight years as Director General of T elecommunications (head of Oftel), 
and then served as Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary General of the 
International Accounting Standards Board. He was previously Chairman of the  
Council of Loughborough University; Non-Executive Director of Cable and 
Wireless Communications plc; RM plc and Non-Executive Chairman of MLL 
T elecom Limited. He was knighted in January 1989. Sir Bryan is an Honorary  
Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and holds an MSc (Econ) from the University 
of London. 
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Novae Group plc; 
Non-Executive Director of Actual Experience plc.
6. STEPHEN DAVIDSON
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2005
Committee Membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee;  
Member of the Committee effective May 2015. Member of the Audit and  
the Nominations Committees
Background and relevant experience: Stephen held various positions  
in Investment Banking, ﬁnally at West LB Panmure where he was Global  
Head of Media and T elecoms and Vice Chairman of Investment Banking.  
From 1993 to 1998 Stephen was Finance Director, then Chief Executive  
Ofﬁcer of T elewest Communications plc. He was Chairman of the Cable
Communications Association from 1996 to 1998. Stephen holds a ﬁrst class 
Honours degree in Mathematics and Statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
External Appointments: Chairman of Datatec Limited, Actual Experience plc  
and PRS for music; Non-Executive Director of Restore plc; Deputy Chairman  
of Jaywing Group plc.
7. KATHLEEN FLAHERTY
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2006
Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee 
Background and relevant experience: Kathleen has served on the Board of  
a number of public companies including Marconi Corporation plc, T elent plc  
and CMS Energy Corporation. She was President and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer  
of Winstar International. Her previous career has included senior roles as  
Chief Marketing Ofﬁcer with A T&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI 
Communications Inc. Kathleen was a non-executive director of GenT ek Inc until 
October 2009 and hibu plc until March 2014. Kathleen holds a PhD in Industrial 
Engineering and Management Sciences from Northwestern University, Illinois. 
External Appointments: A member of the McCormick Advisory Board and its 
executive committee of Northwestern University .
8. GENERAL C. ROBERT KEHLER (Rtd)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2014
Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee
Background and relevant experience: General Kehler retired from the US Air  
Force in January 2014 with over 38 years of service. He oversaw a global network 
of satellite command and control, communications, missile warning and launch 
facilities, and ensured the combat readiness of America’ s intercontinental 
ballistic missile force. Over his career, he served in a variety of important 
operational and staff assignments, and successfully led large organisations  
with global responsibilities.
External Appointments: Proxy board of directors of BEI Precision Systems  
and Space Company; Trustee of the Mitre Corporation; Member of the Advisory 
Board for Outreach and Online Education of the Pennsylvania State University; 
Senior Fellow of the National Defense University; Visiting Lecturer for academic 
year 2014-15, Stanford University Center for International Security and 
Cooperation; Senior advisor to McKinsey and Company .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 51 9. AMBASSADOR JANICE OBUCHOWSKI
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2009
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee
Background and relevant experience: Janice held several senior  
positions both in the US Government and in the private sector. She  
was formerly Head of Delegation and US Ambassador to the World 
Radiocommunications Conference, Assistant Secretary for Communications  
and Information at the Department of Commerce and Senior Advisor to  
the Chairman at the Federal Communications Commission in the US.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Orbital A TK;  
Non-Executive Director of CSG Systems, Inc; President of Freedom  
T echnologies Inc. 
10. DR ABRAHAM PELED 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2013
Committee Membership: Member of the Nominations Committee
Background and relevant experience: Abe spent from 1995 to 2012  
with NDS Group plc, a digital pay-TV company , and served as Chairman and CEO 
from 2004 to 2012. He was Senior Vice President of Cisco from August 2012  
to January 2014 and has previous senior management experience with IBM  
and Elron. Abe has a BSc and MSc in Electrical Engineering and a PhD in  
Digital Signal Processing. In March 2013, he was awarded the Lifetime 
Achievement Award by Digital TV Europe.
External Appointments: Principal to CyberCloud Ventures. Senior advisor  
on technology businesses to Permira.
11. JOHN RENNOCKS
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: January 2005  
Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member  
of the Nominations Committee
Background and relevant experience: John has broad experience in 
biotechnology, support services and manufacturing. He served as Non-
Executive Chairman of Diploma plc until January 2015 and as an Executive 
Director – Finance of a number of public companies including British Steel plc/
Corus Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc. John is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Blueﬁeld Solar Income 
Fund Ltd; Non-Executive Director of Greenko Group plc.
12. ROBERT RUIJTER
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: February 2015 
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee 
Background and relevant experience: Rob served as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of 
VNU N.V ., a publicly listed marketing and publishing company (now the Nielsen 
company) between 2004 and 2007. He previously served as the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines from 2001 until its merger with Air France in 
2004, and as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of ASM International N.V . a publicly listed 
manufacturer of electronic components. Rob is a Certiﬁed Public Accountant in 
the United States and in The Netherlands and a member of the ACT in the UK. 
External Appointments: Member of the Supervisory Board of Wavin N.V .;
Member of the Supervisory Board of Ziggo N.V .; Member of Supervisory Board  
of Delta Lloyd N.V .; Non-Executive Director of Interxion N.V . (NYSE).
13. DR HAMADOUN TOURÉ
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: March 2015 
Committee Membership: Member of the Nominations Committee 
Background and relevant experience: Hamadoun was Secretary General of 
the International T elecommunication Union (ITU), the specialised agency of the 
United Nations dedicated to information and communication technologies from 
2007 to 2014. He was the founding member of the Broadband Commission for 
Digital Development and served as co-vice chair until his retirement from the ITU.  
He has also had a distinguished career in the satellite industry . 
External Appointments: Advisory Board of the International Multilateral 
Partnership Against Cyber Threats; Member of the UN Chief Executive Board.
14. ALISON HORROCKS
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Date of Appointment: February 1999  
Background and relevant experience: Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and 
provides corporate governance advice and acts as Company Secretary to the 
Board and its Committees. She is a member of the Executive Management Board 
and Chairman of the Trustee Company responsible for Inmarsat’ s UK pension 
plans. Alison is a Fellow of the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. She was 
Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide 
public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 52
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED
BOARD DIVERSITY
BOARD EXPERIENCE
BOARD COMPOSITION
BOARD TENURE
NATIONALITIES
 > Regulatory
 > Marketing
 > Government
 > Telecommunications
 > Technology
 > Financial management
 > Developing economies
 > Manufacturing
 > Cyber security
 > Customer service management
Executive:   2
Non-Executive: 11
0-3 Y ears: 6
Male: 11
Female: 2
4-8 Y ears: 2 9-10 Y ears: 5
The Netherlands Mali UK USA BRANCHES
The Group has activities operated through many jurisdictions. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES
The Company’ s ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE: ISA T .L). Details of the issued share capital of the Company, 
together with movements in the issued share capital during the year can be 
found in note 24 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to  
ﬁxed income. On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share of 
Euro 0.0005 held. All 275,189 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee 
Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer  
of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the articles  
of association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any 
arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’ s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern. Despite  
the current volatility in ﬁnancial markets and uncertain economic outlook, the 
Directors believe that the Group has a resilient business model, strong free cash 
ﬂow generation and is compliant with all its ﬁnancial covenants. In making their 
assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved 
budget, the rolling forecast, the cash ﬂow forecast and the most recent ﬁve- 
year long range business plan. In addition, the Directors considered the maturity 
proﬁle of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual and forecast 
covenant calculations. Furthermore, the forecasts and covenant calculations 
were stress tested by applying a set of downside scenarios. After making 
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
As set out in the Financial Reporting Council’ s 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, there is a requirement to include in future reports a broader assessment  
by the Board of the Company’ s ongoing viability . The Company will comply with 
the requirement to report on this in the future.
ON-MARKET PURCHASE AUTHORITY
The Directors’ authorities are determined by UK legislation and the articles of 
association. At the 2014 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders to 
allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make market 
purchases of ordinary shares. Shareholders are being requested to renew these 
authorities at the 2015 AGM.
INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE
Details of the Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance and the indemnities 
provided to the Directors, Company Secretary and certain employees where they 
serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Group’ s request are provided on page 58 
in the Corporate Governance Report.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Details of the employment policies and employee involvement are provided on 
pages 45 and 46 in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for its 
employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by its business 
activities. During 2014, we have continued to work closely with our subsidiary 
companies to harmonise health and safety best practice. Rupert Pearce, our 
CEO, is the Director designated for health and safety matters at Board level.
ALISON HORROCKS
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT – CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE  
AND COMP ANY SECRET ARY
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited ﬁnancial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required  
under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4. Certain information that fulﬁls the 
requirements of the Directors’ Report can be found elsewhere in this document 
and is referred to below. This information is incorporated into the Directors’  
Report by reference.
Set out below is the relevant information required to be disclosed in the  
Directors’ Report in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
As required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules a statement made  
by the Board regarding the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements is set out  
on page 83.
BUSINESS REVIEW, STRATEGIC REPORT AND  
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The Business Review is set out on pages 29 to 37 and the Strategic Report is  
set out in pages 1 to 49 and they are incorporated into this Report by reference.  
This also provides details of likely future developments within the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain parts 
of the Corporate Governance Report to be outlined in the Directors’ Report.  
This information is laid out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages  
56 to 65.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Details of material post-balance sheet events are included in note 38 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Details of the change in the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman which will be effective following the 2015 AGM is noted  
in several sections of the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance 
Report on page 59.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement  
on page 88.
A ﬁnal dividend of 30.26 cents (US$) will be paid on 29 May 2015 to  
shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 15 May 2015. 
Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate 
prevailing in the London market four business days prior to payment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 53
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGY 
We operate in over 50 locations with a combined workforce of approximately 
1,600 staff. Due to our diversity of activities the Company recognises it has  
some impacts affecting the local and global environment. However, it should  
be noted that the satellite industry and our own business is low on the scale of 
carbon generators.
Our environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the 
consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, as well  
as staff and visitors who travel extensively .
All energy, fuel and waste management are controlled by the Business 
Environment team which is based in London.
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to 
report greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. We are 
reporting our greenhouse gas emissions from our global operations.
During the 2014 ﬁnancial year, we emitted a total of 20,145 tCO 2e from fuel 
combustion and operation of our facilities (Scope 1 direct) and electricity 
purchased for our own use (Scope 2 indirect). This is equal to 44.1 tCO 2e per 
Million Megabytes of IP over our BGAN Network. We have also chosen to 
voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions arising from our business travel.
The table below shows our tCO 2e emissions for the years ended 31 December 
2014 and 2013:
Methodology
We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions according 
to ISO 14064-1:2006 and have utilised the UK Government 2013 Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting in order to calculate CO 2 equivalent emissions 
from corresponding activity data. We have also taken certain data used for 
compliance with the CRC Energy Efﬁciency Scheme.
In order to improve monitoring and management of our climate change  
impact, we established a global environmental data programme during 2014  
in collaboration with an external organisation Carbon Credentials. This has 
improved oversight around our energy consumption and increased the quality 
and availability of performance information for decision-making. This will  
also allow us to set emissions reduction targets and monitor performance  
by location going forwards.
Reporting boundaries and limitations
We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational 
control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 10% for GHG 
reporting purposes. As a result, emissions from locations with less than 15 staff 
on-site have been reasonably estimated as immaterial and are thus excluded 
from our GHG disclosure. Emissions for all signiﬁcant sites have been disclosed, 
which includes Perth (Australia), London (UK), Burum (The Netherlands),  
Pamalu (USA) and Batam (Indonesia). 
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2014 
reporting period are: 
 > Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, gasoil combustion within 
generators, road fuel combustion within vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants 
from air-conditioning equipment;
 > Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use; and
 > Scope 3: Business travel.
Assumptions and Estimations
In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation  
of available data from the reporting period or data from 2013 as a proxy . 
Furthermore, due to an incomplete 2013 dataset, we have also restated last 
year’ s emissions ﬁgures. This allows us to make a more accurate performance 
comparison between 2013 and 2014.
ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT IN 2014
We regularly look for opportunities and initiatives to drive down consumption  
in the London ofﬁce where the largest contingent of staff is based. The projects 
below summarise the work carried out in 2014.
1.  Carbon reduction energy efﬁcient controllers ﬁtted to main air handling 
units which provide fresh and conditioned (hot or cold) air to the ofﬁce.
2. Modiﬁcations to boilers and pipe work to improve efﬁciency. Further works  
to improve operational savings have been implemented during 2014.
3. Stagger plant on/off times. This was enhanced during 2014 with the 
installation of high efﬁciency motors and soft start inverter controls  
to all main air conditioning plant, giving ﬂexibility to optimise daytime  
run conditions.
4. Upgrade lighting to LEDs. We have initiated a rolling programme to change 
where practical. This programme has continued with an increase in numbers 
being installed and savings being made.
5. Install movement sensors in common areas to switch lighting on/off.  
This has been further enhanced during 2014 with the addition of daylight 
sensors in key work areas.
6. Alterations to existing, obsolete, lighting control system to eliminate excessive 
on times. This was ongoing during 2014 to optimise existing savings.
7 . Extensive use of our Building Management System to efﬁciently control  
the building operating times in terms of occupancy and temperature  
control. Continuation of this strategy is providing savings.
8. Installation of adiabatic system to improve efﬁciency of air-cooled 
condensers. Enhancements to how this is managed have enabled  
additional efﬁciency beneﬁts.
tCO2e emissions 2014 2013
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities (Scope 1) 1,198 1,396
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for our own use (Scope 2) 18,947 17,932
Total Scope 1 and 2 20,145 19,327
tCO 2e per million megabytes of IP  
over our BGAN Network 44.1 57.0
Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 3,361 2,905
As can be seen above, since 2013 our absolute emissions have increased by 
5.7%. This is principally due to the introduction of new satellite services and an 
expanded ground network, as well as an increase in the availability and quality  
of data from our international locations as a result of the implementation  
of our global environmental data programme during 2014. Emissions at our 
London Head Ofﬁce location also increased due to the slight rise in electricity 
consumption, compounded by a higher emission factor as a result of greater 
coal power supply to the UK grid in 2014.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Total emissions 2014 (tCO 2e) Emissions intensity (tCO 2e)
2014
44.1
2013
57.0
Scope 1
1,198
Scope 2
18,947
Scope 3
3,361
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 54
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 CONTINUED COMMERCIAL WASTE
In the London ofﬁce and its major sites Inmarsat continues to be progressive  
in its approach to waste management. Recycling is managed locally in the  
larger sites with the separation of plastics, paper and non-recyclable materials. 
The 2015 plan is to develop a reporting mechanism to reﬂect the volumes of 
recycled materials in the larger ofﬁces.
In the head ofﬁce in London which is the single largest ofﬁce for the Group, we  
do not send any waste to landﬁll and this policy has been in place since 2009.  
We separate our waste into three streams: recyclable, non-recyclable and 
conﬁdential waste. Conﬁdential waste is shredded and pulped and reused in 
paper products. The non-recyclable material is incinerated and converted  
to electricity and all other waste is recycled. In 2014 Inmarsat’ s contractors 
collected 57 tonnes of waste from the London head ofﬁce site for processing.
TRAVEL
Inmarsat continues to voluntarily report its Scope 3 (travel emissions). 
Centralisation of the travel management activities has continued across  
the Group and our travel agencies supply the emission data.
The Scope 3 emissions reported by our travel agencies and our internal travel 
team account for 60% of the Group‘s travel.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Details of principal risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 27 and 28.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Details of the ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, 
including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and cash ﬂow risk are given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary  
to support its activities through research and development programmes.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
During the year, no political donations were made. It remains the policy  
of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure. 
However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the  
best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to 
participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect  
its business. T o avoid inadvertent infringement of the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked annually to give authority  
at the Annual General Meeting for the Company to make political donations  
and to incur political expenditure.
INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS
As at 5 March 2015, the Company had been notiﬁed, in accordance with chapter  
5 of the Financial Services Authority’ s Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following signiﬁcant interests:
Percentage of voting  
rights over ordinary  
shares of €0.0005 each
Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.44%
BlackRock Inc 6.71%
Aberdeen Asset Managers 4.42%
MassMutual Life Insurance 
Company 4.01%
Artemis Investment Management 3.22%
Note: Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the 
Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 5 March 2015.
RULES GOVERNING DIRECTORS’ APPOINTMENTS
Rules governing Directors’ appointments are provided on page 60 of the 
Corporate Governance Report.
DIRECTORS’ POWER
Details of Directors’ powers are provided on pages 58 and 59 of the Corporate  
Governance Report.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the ﬁnancial 
year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below:
Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, T ony Bates, John Rennocks, Stephen Davidson, 
Janice Obuchowski, Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd), Sir Bryan 
Carsberg, Abe Peled, Simon Bax. Rtd Admiral James Ellis Jnr and Rick Medlock 
were Directors for part of 2014.
Details of each Director’ s interests in the Company’ s ordinary shares and share 
awards held are set out in full on pages 81 and 82. 
Details of the Directors’ conﬂicts of interest policy are provided on pages 58. 
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The articles of association can be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders.
AUDITOR
Each of the Directors has conﬁrmed that:
i)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’ s Auditor is unaware; and
ii)  the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a 
Director to make him/herself aware of any relevant audit information and  
to establish that the Company’ s Auditor is aware of that information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to 
authorise the Board to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the  
2015 AGM.
 
2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 6 May 2015 at 10.00am at 99 City 
Road, London EC1Y 1AX. The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions  
to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
ALISON HORROCKS FCIS
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
5 March 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 55 THE BOARD
COMPOSITION
Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range of professional 
backgrounds. All our Directors bring strong judgement to the Board’ s 
deliberations. In 2014 and in early 2015 we have made great progress to appoint 
additional Non-Executive Directors who are becoming fully up to speed with how 
the Company operates and its business. W e took the decision to appoint these 
additional Directors while retaining the expertise of our existing Directors thus 
enabling us to have an orderly retirement process of longer-serving Board 
Directors over the coming years. In 2014 we appointed Retired General C. Robert 
Kehler and in 2015 we have appointed Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun T ouré. At 
the beginning of 2015, I also became Non-Executive Chairman. W e also welcomed 
T ony Bates as our Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in June 2014. I have detailed later on in 
the report some changes in one of our Board Committees.
As at 5 March 2015, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors,  
10 Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman. With the exception 
of Mr Bates and General Kehler, all Directors (apart from those joining in 2015) 
served throughout the year. 
The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and experience  
are set out in their biographical details and can be found on pages 50 to 52. 
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed 
and evaluated so as to reﬂect the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity (of which 
gender is one component), experience and the ability of Directors to provide 
sufﬁcient time to fulﬁl their Board responsibilities. 
In succession planning for the Board and within the Group, the Board takes  
into account the need for diversity generally, and is in support of the principle  
of encouraging women in the Company as noted in its existing policy . The Board 
has not set express diversity quotas or measurable objectives for implementing  
its policy . Although there is no speciﬁc percentage commitment for women on  
the Board or in senior manager roles, it is the Board and management’ s intention 
that female talent, as one element of diversity, is encouraged within the business. 
The Board is diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international 
experience of its members. The Board currently has two female Non-Executive 
Directors, representing, as a percentage, 15% of the full Board as at 5 March  
2015; this ﬁgure is reduced compared to the percentage in 2014 which was 22% 
because of the increase in board size while we go through a transition period of 
bringing on new Directors and the retirement of existing ones. Across our business 
of approximately 1,600 employees, female employees represent approximately 
30%, with 25% presence on the Executive Management Board and 18% on the 
wider leadership team (excluding contingency workers) which is a group comprising 
generally direct reports to the Executive Management Board members. The 
percentage of females on the Executive Management Board and wider leadership 
team represent the deﬁnition as set out in the UK Government BIS requirements.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES 
T o ensure effective corporate governance, your Board has structured its 
governance framework as set out below.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority .  
The permanent Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. Each Committee has T erms of Reference under which 
authority is delegated by the Board. A copy can be found on our website at  
www.inmarsat.com. Reports of the Committees can be found on pages 62  
to 82.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Y our Board manages the Inmarsat business in a transparent, open and  
honest manner. We achieve this by maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our 
activities: for delivering our strategy and ﬁnancial performance, for efﬁciently 
using our resources and for social, environmental and ethical matters. 
The Board approves the Group’ s governance framework with the Board 
committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as remuneration 
policy, internal controls and risk management. 
Our governance framework includes the changes introduced by the updated  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Report) (Amendment) Regulations  
2013 (the ‘Regulations’). 
We also include a statement made by the Directors, on page 83, that  
they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable. The processes including ﬁnancial controls and reporting, and 
risk management, which underpin and support our conﬁdence in making this 
statement, are long-established and embedded into our business. In addition,  
our Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the Annual 
Report. In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure Committee 
also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures to 
fairly present the Company’ s and the Group’ s ﬁnancial condition and results of 
operations. Our external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual 
Report to identify any material inconsistencies with the ﬁnancial statements.  
Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufﬁcient time to 
facilitate their review and input.
As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and 
experience from all my Directors; the blend of experience, nationalities and range 
of cultural experience within the Board is valuable to us as we fulﬁl our duties to 
manage the business. 
The information on the following pages will help you understand how your Board 
has run the Company, managed risks, monitored control, and how decisions have 
been taken. 
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
5 March 2015
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES
Key objectives:
 > Leadership, operation and governance of the Board
 > Setting the agenda for the Board
CHAIRMAN
ANDREW SUKAWATY
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and review of 
ﬁnancial risk management, 
audit and internal  
control issues
Read more on page 62 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
5 INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
JOHN RENNOCKS  
AS CHAIRMAN 
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and review of 
remuneration, bonus and 
share plan issues 
Read more on page 66
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
5 INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
STEPHEN DAVIDSON  
AS CHAIRMAN
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and review  
of Board and senior 
management appointments 
and succession planning 
Read more on page 65
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
5 INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  
AND CHAIRMAN 
ANDREW SUKAWATY  
AS CHAIRMAN
Key objectives:
 > T o focus on strategy, ﬁnancial performance, succession planning, 
business growth, organisational development and support of  
group-wide policies 
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
12 MEMBERS MADE UP OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS,  
BUSINESS UNIT PRESIDENTS, GROUP FUNCTION HEADS.  
CHAIRMAN: RUPERT PEARCE
Key objectives:
 > Management of the business
 > Implementation of strategy 
and policy
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
RUPERT PEARCE
Key objectives:
 > Responsible for the overall conduct of the business
 > Setting strategy
INMARSAT PLC BOARD
13 DIRECTORS: THE CHAIRMAN, TEN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  
AND TWO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 57 ROLE OF THE BOARD
Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat Group’ s (the ‘Group’) 
business. It is the primary decision-making body for all material matters affecting  
the Group. It provides leadership and guidance, and sets our strategic direction. 
Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for:
 > the performance and proper conduct of the business; 
 > being responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having regard 
for the interests of all stakeholders; and 
 > being responsible for ensuring the effectiveness and reporting on our system 
of corporate governance. 
Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Group’ s operations and for 
day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer who, as part of the Executive Management Board team, cascades this 
responsibility through the Group. A list of team members is provided on page 17.
A formal schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved for decision or consideration 
by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Directors. This schedule covers 
areas such as:
 > the Group’s business strategy and long-term plans; 
 > major capital projects; 
 > investments; and 
 > acquisitions and divestments. 
The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed 
formally at Board meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved  
to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed. There is an established 
procedure for the review of the agenda in advance of each Board or Committee 
meeting. At each Board meeting there is a detailed report on current trading from 
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and full papers are provided on 
matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give approval. 
Where appropriate, speciﬁc responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees  
or to committees convened for special purposes. 
Speciﬁc annual items for review include an update on the Company’ s policies  
for compliance with the Bribery Act, and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices  
Act (‘FCP A’) requirements and health and safety . As part of our commitment to 
preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption 
wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, we have a formal 
Board-approved anti-corruption policy , which was updated as part of good 
practice in 2014. W e have appropriate procedures in place, in line with guidance 
provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with current legislation.  
A summary of our anti-bribery policy is included on our website.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ insurance cover has been established for all Directors  
and Ofﬁcers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of  
the Company . In accordance with our articles of association and to the extent 
permitted by the laws of England and W ales, Directors, the Company Secretary and 
certain employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Group’ s request 
have been granted indemnities from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred 
as a result of their ofﬁce. Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover  
in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently .  
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during the year. 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Company has in place procedures for managing conﬂicts of interest  
and is aware of any potential conﬂict through an annual review of the other 
commitments of its Directors. We are satisﬁed these do not conﬂict with their 
duties as Directors of Inmarsat and consequently there were no conﬂicts of 
interest identiﬁed during the year. The Company’ s articles of association contain 
provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conﬂicts of interest so 
that a Director is not in breach of his/her duty under company law. Should a 
Director become aware that they have an interest, directly or indirectly, in an 
existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they are required to notify 
this to the Company Secretary . Directors have a continuing duty to notify  
any changes to their conﬂicts of interest to the Company Secretary and any 
changes are noted in the conﬂicts register.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees 
and in doing so she:
 > assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information;
 > assists the Chairman by organising induction and training programmes;
 > assists the Chairman with the annual Board evaluation procedure;
 > is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed 
and advises the Board on corporate governance matters; and
 > administers the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, 
obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense (no 
requests for external professional advice were received during the year).
COMPANY SECRETARY
ALISON HORROCKS
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
 > acting as a sounding board for the Chairman;
 > serving as an intermediary for the other Directors;
 > reviewing the Chairman’s performance with the Non-Executive Directors;
 > being available to discuss issues or concerns from our shareholders where 
they have been unable to resolve them through existing channels for 
investor communications; and
 > convening regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Rennocks also acts as Deputy Chairman.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
JOHN RENNOCKS
The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
He is responsible for:
 > the day-to-day management of Inmarsat’s operations and its 
ﬁnancial results; 
 > recommending the strategic objectives for the Inmarsat Group,  
for debate, challenge and approval by the Board; 
 > responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key 
programmes with a priority to target revenue growth and deliver 
enhanced returns to shareholders; and
 > chairing the Executive Management Board.
Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social governance, 
community investment, and other corporate social responsibility matters.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
RUPERT PEARCE
The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.  
He is responsible for:
 > effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board;
 > ensuring the effectiveness of the Board;
 > setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions; and
 > ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
In addition Mr Sukawaty also fulﬁls other responsibilities including:
 > fulﬁlling a company representative role with various international 
organisations and also with government departments  
for market access opportunities in key BRIC countries.
CHAIRMAN
ANDREW SUKAWATY
KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors ensures 
that they can provide a strong independent element on the Board, to debate, 
and constructively challenge management both in relation to the development 
of strategy and review of the Group’ s operational and ﬁnancial performance. 
T o determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are reviewed  
by the Board annually against any circumstances relevant to their current or 
ongoing independence as set out in the Code. Following such review, the Board 
considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and free of any 
circumstances that could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong 
and valuable contribution to the Board’ s deliberations, or which could interfere 
with the individual Director’ s ability to also act in the best interests of the Group. 
At the 2015 AGM, several of our Directors will have served for 10 years. The Board 
has considered the matter carefully and believes that these Non-Executive 
Directors continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence and judgement  
in carrying out their roles. Their length of service, resulting experience and 
knowledge of the Company is of great beneﬁt to the Board and these three 
Directors – Messrs Rennocks and Davidson and Sir Bryan Carsberg – will all stand 
for re-election at the 2015 AGM. The subject of their independence will be kept 
under review.
It is the intention that after the 2015 AGM, Simon Bax will be appointed as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Stephen Davidson stepping 
down from the Chairman role but remaining a member of the Committee and a 
Director of the Company . We expect that our newer Non-Executive Directors will 
have been able to beneﬁt from the experience of our longer-serving Directors 
through the phased retirement plans we will be putting in place.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Management Board which meets on  
a weekly basis. As part of its remit, this team focuses on the Company’ s strategy, 
ﬁnancial reviews and long range business planning, the competitive landscape, 
operational updates from all areas of the business, risk review and organisational 
development. The Executive Management Board includes the Executive 
Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and the key functional heads.  
The names of the management team are shown on page 17.
GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT OF BOARD MEETINGS
Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business. 
During the year, the Board met eight times, with one of those meetings being  
held in Washington DC. The ﬁrst meeting in 2015 was held in the ofﬁce of a 
business in the US which had been acquired in January 2014 and provided the 
Board with additional exposure to this part of our business. The rest of the 
meetings in 2014 were held in the UK. Key management are invited to attend  
all Board meetings to present on speciﬁc business issues which will include 
operations update for each of the Business Units and central services  
divisions which will focus on commercial, technology and operational matters. 
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and when necessary .
In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, 
any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be 
considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the 
Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Committee thereon. 
The use of the electronic portal for the Directors to access Board and Committee 
papers has proved very effective. At each meeting, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer provide reports to the Board and several senior executives, 
by invitation, present updates on strategy and focus on speciﬁc parts of the Group’ s 
operations. This way the Board is given exposure to the next layer of management 
at the Executive Management Board level and often from their direct reports. This 
is helpful to the Board as it supplements the discussions it has regarding planning 
for management succession. All Committee Chairmen report verbally on the 
proceedings of their Committees at the next Board meeting. Meeting proceedings 
and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the 
Company Secretary .
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the 
Chairman and other Executive Directors in attendance, to assess the Chairman’ s 
performance, discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive 
Directors and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate. 
As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also holds a two-day 
strategy meeting each year at which it considers the future direction of the 
business. Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who 
present on speciﬁc agenda items. Elements of the business strategy are  
reviewed regularly at Board meetings. 
The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, systems and 
network security (‘cyber security’). We are increasingly required to be compliant 
with, or align to, various legal, contractual and regulatory standards and codes  
of practice relative to information security governance and the preservation of 
the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of customer or internal data and 
services. T o ensure we can meet these business and geopolitical requirements,  
a multi-standards compliance programme is underway ensuring compliance with, 
among others, UK, US and international cyber security standards that include 
ISO27001/2, NIST-800-53 and PCI-DSS. This is part of a broader programme 
supported by a dedicated cyber security team whose primary role is to safeguard 
the Company to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, maintain business 
continuity and limit damage to business interests by preventing and reducing  
the occurrence of security incidents and their impact upon business operations.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE
The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2014 is shown  
in the table below. Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun T ouré joined the Board on  
1 February and 1 March 2015 respectively . Attendance at Committee meetings  
is shown in the relevant Committee reports. 
Number of scheduled Board meetings held and meeting  
attendance in 2014
Meetings
Percentage 
Attendance
Andrew Sukawaty (Chairman) 8/8 100%
Rupert Pearce 8/8 100%
Tony Bates
(a)
5/5 100%
Simon Bax 8/8 100%
Sir Bryan Carsberg 8/8 100%
Stephen Davidson 8/8 100%
Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd)
(b)
2/2 100%
Kathleen Flaherty 8/8 100%
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd)
(c)
6/6 100%
Janice Obuchowski 8/8 100%
Abe Peled 8/8 100%
John Rennocks 8/8 100%
(a) Appointed on 2 June 2014
(b) Resigned on 4 March 2014
(c) Appointed on 6 May 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 59 INDUCTION AND ON-GOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
T o ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on joining the  
Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction 
programme organised through the Company Secretary, including the provision 
of background material on the Company and brieﬁngs with each of the Executive 
Management Board. These meetings will ensure that the on-boarding process 
for a new Director provides a view of each area of the business with the 
opportunity for further discussion as appropriate. Each Director’ s individual 
experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme 
tailored to his or her own requirements. The induction programme was reviewed 
and updated during 2014 for General Kehler when he joined the Company .  
The elements of induction will also be reviewed to cater to the requirements  
of the two Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board in 2015.
For professional ongoing development, the Board receives presentations 
relevant to the Company’ s business and updates on any changes in legislation 
which may affect the Company’ s operations. The Company Secretary supplies  
all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice. As part of their 
annual performance evaluation, Directors are given the opportunity to discuss 
training and development needs. Directors are expected to take responsibility for 
identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure they are adequately 
informed about the Company and their responsibilities as a Director. The Board  
is conﬁdent that its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to 
perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company . 
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS 
As in 2013, for 2014, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors during the  
year, led by the Company Secretary . The Code requires that the Company 
conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every three years and the 2012 
Board performance evaluation was facilitated by Duncan Reed of Condign Board 
Consulting Ltd. An evaluation by an external provider will be undertaken in 2015.
The evaluation process consisted of a questionnaire sent out in advance to  
each Director and a meeting occurred between the Company Secretary and 
each Non-Executive Director to review the questionnaire and discuss any other 
comments. The outcome of the review was ﬁrst discussed with the Chairman  
and then shared with the full Board as an agenda item at the Board meetings  
in March 2015. The full output from the evaluation was presented in a report  
to all of the Directors, with collective and individual feedback being provided.
The review concluded that Board meetings had good debate and discussion  
with the right level of question and debate leading up to a decision being made.  
The Directors all felt that the Non-Executive Directors who had joined in 2013 
and part-way through 2014 had settled well and were contributing effectively  
to Board discussion. There was strong endorsement of the new CFO and 
appreciation of the experience and knowledge he was bringing to managing  
the ﬁnance function, proposing and adopting new ﬁnancial reporting and his 
contribution to streamlining processes across different business areas. The Board 
conﬁrmed its full support for the transition of Mr Sukawaty from Executive 
Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman and continued to applaud his style and 
approach for how he facilitated a culture of openness, honesty and collegiality . 
The relationship between the Chairman and CEO was also noted as being very 
effective and supportive of their respective roles to ensure the best outcome for 
the business was always forefront of decision making. Continuing to engage with 
senior management in a formal Board meeting setting as well as informally outside 
the Board meetings was felt to be of beneﬁt supporting succession discussions. 
The Non-Executive Directors continue to be highly supportive of all the Executive 
management team. 
The Board was asked speciﬁcally to consider how they felt they had contributed 
as individuals during the year as well as to identify key areas where the Board had 
been a signiﬁcant driver in the decision-making process. They cited a number of 
examples such as the support for the aviation business expansion.
During the year, the Senior Independent Chairman met with the Non-Executive 
Directors and discussed the performance of the Chairman; and each of the 
directors commented as part of the evaluation exercise on the Chairman’ s 
performance. The Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors on an  
individual basis at least once a year. 
Key elements arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review are as follows:
 > Additional focus on succession planning for Executive Directors and  
senior management;
 > Broaden the strategy discussion content for the two-day Board meeting  
and include additional targeted strategic discussion at Board meetings  
as appropriate;
 > Greater visibility as to customer satisfaction and how it is measured; and
 > Plan for a retirement cycle for longer-serving Non-Executive Directors.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS 
The Board believes, in principle, in the beneﬁt of Executive Directors accepting 
Non-Executive Directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills and 
knowledge for the beneﬁt of the Company . All such appointments require the prior 
approval of the Board and the number of appointments is limited to two. Details  
of these directorships can be found in their biographies on page 51 and details  
of the fees paid to them can be found on page 77 of the Remuneration Report. 
APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. 
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer 
themselves for election by shareholders at the ﬁrst AGM after their appointment. 
The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing commitment to Board 
activities and satisfactory performance. All Directors will stand for reappointment 
annually in accordance with the provision of the Code. The Nominations 
Committee conﬁrmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors 
offering themselves for reappointment at the 2015 AGM continues to beneﬁt the 
Board and the Company should support their reappointment. Non-Executive 
Directors are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors 
may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in ofﬁce for a period longer than six 
years, or two terms in ofﬁce, whichever is the shorter. 
As already set out earlier in this report on page 59, three of our Non-Executive 
Directors, John Rennocks, Stephen Davidson and Sir Bryan Carsberg, are being 
supported by the Board for re-appointment as independent Non-Executive 
Directors even though they will have served for 10 years. We will also be putting 
forward for election at the 2015 AGM three additional Non-Executive Directors: 
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd), Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun T ouré, and T ony 
Bates as an Executive Director. 
As advised in our 2013 Annual Report, Mr Bates joined the Company and was 
appointed as a Director and our CFO on 2 June 2014. The appointment followed 
an external search undertaken by Russell Reynolds Associates, which was led by 
the CEO reporting to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of the Company’ s remuneration policy and Directors’ remuneration are 
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 82.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 60
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders 
to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and that it remains 
accountable to shareholders. The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring 
that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer ensure that the views of shareholders 
are communicated to the Board as a whole. The Board ensures that the 
Company’ s strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability  
to deliver long-term shareholder value. In September 2014, the Company held  
an Investor Day which was attended by investors, bankers, and other interested 
parties. The presentations covered the Company’ s major business opportunities 
with presentations from each of the key business areas. Positive feedback as to 
the content and provision of information was received; a copy of the presentation 
has been made available on the Company’ s website. This audited 2014 Annual 
Report will be made available to shareholders and all results are posted on the 
Company’ s website, as are presentations made in respect of the full-year results.
The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and  
overseas and presentations were also made after publication of the Preliminary 
Results in March 2014 and are planned for March 2015. Investor and analyst 
conference calls took place after the announcement of each set of quarterly 
ﬁnancial results. There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings 
between the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and 
analysts. At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, 
performance, management and governance, are discussed within the constraints 
of information which has already been made public. The Board is aware that 
institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company  
than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive 
information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the  
same time in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent Director, John 
Rennocks, are available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be 
raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved. 
Arrangements can be made to meet with either of them through the Company 
Secretary . Other Non-Executive Directors may be asked to participate in  
investor meetings and have done so. 
During 2014, there continued to be ongoing communications through a 
combination of face-to-face meetings, phone calls and email correspondence 
with many investors regarding remuneration issues. The Remuneration 
Committee Chairman shared a forward vision of the key elements of the 2014 
Remuneration Policy with many of the Company’ s signiﬁcant and inﬂuential 
shareholders, as well as several proxy agencies. The Company also sought 
comments on the proposed change in position of the Chairman, moving from  
an Executive to Non-Executive position and received positive feedback which  
was relayed to the Board at its September Board meeting to allow the Board  
to take a decision to recommend the change in Chairman position which was 
then announced to the London Stock Exchange. Further information on the 
Company‘s Remuneration Policy is contained in the covering letter from the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman, in the Remuneration Policy and Annual 
Report on Remuneration on pages 66 to 82.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, J.P . Morgan 
Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a 
non-attributed and attributed basis. Any concerns of major shareholders would 
be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors. As a matter of 
routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price and 
trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor shareholdings. 
The Board is also regularly provided with current analyst opinions and forecasts.
 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
Shareholders are welcome at the Company’ s AGM where they will have an 
opportunity to meet the Board. The notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders 
at least 20 working days before the meeting. The Chairmen of the Audit and the 
Remuneration Committees, together with as many Directors as possible, will 
attend the 2015 AGM and be available to answer shareholders’ questions. Voting 
on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll. The proxy votes cast, including details  
of votes withheld, are disclosed on our website and announced to the UK Listing 
Authority through a Regulatory Information Service immediately after the 
meeting. Facilities are provided for shareholders to vote electronically either 
through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST . 
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining  
the Group’ s system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from 
management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the business. 
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,  
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Audit 
Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports received  
from management, along with those from both internal and external auditors. 
Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk management 
can be further embedded into the operations of the business and to deal with 
areas of improvement which come to management’ s and the Board’ s attention.
The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with responsibility for 
reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of 
ﬁnancial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer to provide their 
certiﬁcations in relation to publicly disclosed information.
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended  
31 December 2014 and for the period up to the date of approval of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements contained in the Annual Report. The review 
covered all material controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems. The Board conﬁrms that the actions  
it considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any signiﬁcant 
failings or weaknesses identiﬁed from its review of the system of internal control. 
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans 
and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances. The 
Board also conﬁrms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in  
the part of the internal control system that relates to ﬁnancial reporting.
The key elements of the Group’ s system of internal controls, which have been in 
place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, include:
 > Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in place which 
sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and how this is measured 
across identiﬁed macro and business risks. As required by the policy, 
management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate  
and report signiﬁcant risks within the business and to report to the Board  
on how those risks are being managed. Risks are highlighted through a 
number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by  
Risk Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, the probability  
of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken  
to manage the risk to the desired level. All the risk registers are reviewed by 
senior management and provided quarterly to the Board and to the Audit 
Committee. Details of the risk process and key risks are shown on pages 26  
to 28 in the Strategic Report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 61  > Management structure: there is a clearly deﬁned organisational structure 
throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of 
authority based on job responsibilities and experience. Within the businesses, 
senior management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of 
relevant business issues. A process of self-certiﬁcation is used where Directors 
and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation  
to mitigate risk in key process areas. The Directors also review and approve 
annually, that risk management processes are in place.
 > Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable 
and up-to-date ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information to management and 
the Board. Analysis is undertaken of differences between actual results and the 
annual budget on a monthly basis. Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets 
and long range ﬁnancial plans allow management to monitor the key business 
and ﬁnancial activities, and the progress towards achieving the ﬁnancial 
objectives. The annual budget is approved by the Board. The Group reports 
quarterly based on a standardised reporting process. 
 > Information systems: information systems are developed to support the 
Group’s long-term objectives and are managed by professionally staffed 
teams. Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all 
signiﬁcant areas of the business.
 > Contractual commitments: there are clearly deﬁned policies and 
procedures for entering into contractual commitments. These include 
detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals 
and/or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk 
management aspects of the obligations being entered into. New business 
plan approval processes and a new procurement process have been 
introduced which will further strengthen the review of contractual 
commitments before any such commitment is agreed to.
 > Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular reports from  
the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control 
environment of the Group is operating effectively. There are formal  
policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the 
accounting records and to safeguard the Group’s assets. Signiﬁcant capital 
projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval. There are 
formal procedures by which staff can, in conﬁdence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in ﬁnancial and pensions administration and other 
matters – often referred to as ‘whistleblowing’ procedures. A new worldwide 
anonymous whistleblowing programme was introduced in 2014. Arrangements 
are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate 
follow-up action with the results being reported to the Audit Committee.
OVERALL SUMMARY STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. 
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied 
with the provisions of the Code as currently in effect save as noted below.
During 2014, Mr Sukawaty was Executive Chairman. He did not meet the 
independence criteria on appointment. He was appointed Chairman in December 
2003 and assumed the additional role of Chief Executive Ofﬁcer at the Board’ s 
request in March 2004. On 1 January 2012, the roles were split and Mr Sukawaty 
continued as Executive Chairman. From 1 January 2015, Mr Sukawaty became 
Non-Executive Chairman. He is not considered independent. Although the Code 
recommends that the Chairman is independent on appointment, the Board 
unanimously believes that Mr Sukawaty’ s wide experience means that he remains 
extremely well qualiﬁed to lead the Company as its Chairman and has the skills 
and experience to ensure that the Board continues to function effectively . The 
Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, plays a key role within the Company 
on any matters which may be raised of a governance nature and was responsible 
for the discussions regarding the change in role for the Chairman which became 
effective in 2015.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
An overview of the Group’ s framework for identifying and managing risk,  
both at an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 26 to 28  
in the Strategic Report.
REPORTS OF THE BOARD COMMITTEES
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
All members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors 
and the majority have signiﬁcant, recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.  
The Board is conﬁdent that the collective experience of the Audit Committee 
members enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee. 
The table below shows who makes up the Audit Committee and their attendance 
at meetings during 2014. Robert Ruijter joined the Committee with effect from  
1 February 2015.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and the Head of Internal 
Audit. The Deloitte LLP (‘Deloitte’) audit engagement partner is present at all 
Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating  
to the audit. The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the 
internal and external auditors.
Following publication of the revised version of the Code, which applies to ﬁnancial 
years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the 
Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’ s performance, business 
model and strategy . The Committee’ s terms of reference have been amended to 
reﬂect this, and have been generally updated to reﬂect best practice, and can be 
found on our website. 
There is a forward agenda used for the year’ s activities which focuses on:
 > review of the annual ﬁnancial statements and the results of the annual 
external audit and review of the external auditor’s quarterly and interim  
review work and relevant quarterly and interim ﬁnancial reporting and the 
external audit plan; 
 > review of risk management reports; and 
 > review of internal audit plans and ﬁndings and recommendations.
Name Audit Committee
Percentage 
attendance
John Rennocks (Chairman) 4/4 100%
Sir Bryan Carsberg 4/4 100%
Stephen Davidson 4/4 100%
Janice Obuchowski 4/4 100%
AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for:
 > monitoring the ﬁnancial reporting process; 
 > the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls  
and risk management;  
 > the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements. This includes a review  
of signiﬁcant issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures; 
 > keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its  
cost effectiveness; 
 > consideration of management’s response to any major external  
or internal audit recommendations; and 
 > being assured of the independence and objectivity of the internal  
and external auditor.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process and audit quality 
are effective. It does this by relying on:
 > the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman and the lead audit 
engagement partner which will generally be through face to face meetings; 
 > the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit 
engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team; 
 > the quality of the management responses to audit queries; 
 > meetings held by the CEO and the Chairman with the lead audit engagement 
partner which are reported to the Audit Chairman and Committee; 
 > a review of independence and objectivity of the audit ﬁrm and also the quality 
of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to shareholders; and 
 > feedback from members of the ﬁnance team, the Company Secretary, and 
the Head of Internal Audit. The Committee is considering the use of a formal 
auditor assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness.
During the year to 31 December 2014, the activities of the Audit Committee were:
 > review and endorsement, prior to submission to the Board, of the half-year 
and full-year ﬁnancial statements, interim management statements and 
results announcements; 
 > review and approval of internal audit reports , and ﬁndings and 
recommendations arising from the reports;
 > review and approval of risk management updates and the annual risk 
management process;
 > agreement of external and internal annual audit plans; 
 > receiving updates on management responses to audit recommendations; and 
 > reviewing accounting policies. 
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group 
operations. Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group companies and business 
operations. The quarterly review of the risk reports and the process adopted to 
manage risk is a key area of focus for the Committee.
Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a Board meeting  
to maximise effectiveness and time planning efﬁciency of those attending. The 
Committee’ s Chairman reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, 
on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the 
Board in the conduct of their work. All members of the Board have access to 
Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to  
the Chairman, attend the meetings.
The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee (the role of 
which is detailed on page 61), reported on matters that affected the quality and 
timely disclosure of ﬁnancial and other material information to the Board, to the 
public markets and to shareholders. This enabled the Audit Committee to review 
and clarify the completeness of ﬁnancial reporting disclosures prior to their 
release by the Board.
Audit Committee – Signiﬁcant accounting matters
During 2014, the Audit Committee considered the signiﬁcant accounting matters 
described below. In addressing these issues the Committee considered the 
appropriateness of management’ s judgements and estimates, and, where 
appropriate, discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor. 
The Committee also reviews quarterly reports by the external auditor which 
highlight any issues with respect to the external auditor’ s work undertaken.
 > Segmental reporting 
During 2014, the Group revised its operating segments to reﬂect the way the 
business is being viewed by the CEO. The revised operating segments are now 
aligned to ﬁve market-facing Business Units, being:
 – Maritime
 –Enterprise 
 –Aviation
 –US Government
 – Global Government
 These ﬁve Business Units are supported by ‘Central Services’ which includes 
satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative 
costs, and all other income that is not directly attributable to the individual 
Business Units. The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global 
Government operating segments into one reporting segment, as the 
segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS. The Audit Committee 
concur with the approach taken to identify and reorganise the Group’s 
operating and reporting segments. The external auditors have examined  
the design and implementation around segmental reporting and concur  
it is in line with IFRS requirements.
 > Goodwill and other impairment tests 
The Group has signiﬁcant goodwill and other intangible assets. As explained 
in our accounting policy, intangible assets with an indeﬁnite life are reviewed 
annually for impairment and all intangible assets are reviewed for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that those assets may be impaired. 
 
The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions 
used in calculating the value in use of the cash-generating units (‘CGUs’)  
or assets being tested for impairment. The key assumptions applied in the 
calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business. 
The starting point for the determination of the value in use workings is  
the last Board-approved long-range business plan, which is updated for 
changes since that date. The impairment review was also an area of focus  
for the external auditor, who reported its ﬁndings to the Audit Committee.  
In 2014 the Group reassessed its CGUs as a consequence of the Group’s 
change in operating segments. Business Units rather than the previous 
segmentation of Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions are now reported. 
 
The Audit Committee believes the results of the impairment tests and the 
revision to the CGU structure, to be appropriate. 
 > Pension arrangements and post-employment beneﬁts assumptions 
The assumptions used in valuing our pension and post-employment beneﬁt 
schemes are an area of key judgement. The valuation of all material pension 
and post-employment beneﬁt schemes is actuarially determined at year end; 
the key assumptions are reviewed by the Audit Committee and have been 
deemed appropriate.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 63  > Income tax 
The calculation of the Group’s potential income tax assets and liabilities 
necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of 
certain items, whose tax treatment cannot be fully determined until resolution 
has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through  
a formal legal process. Issues can, and often do, take a number of years  
to resolve.  
 
The Committee addresses these matters through a range of reporting from 
senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of 
management’s views including the degree to which these are supported by 
professional advice from external legal and other advisory ﬁrms. This is also 
an area of higher audit risk and accordingly the Committee received detailed 
verbal and written reporting from the external auditor on these matters. 
Following these procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the income tax 
assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Group’s contingent  
liability disclosure in respect of income taxes, to be appropriate. 
 > Revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement 
The Audit Committee has reviewed the various accounting methods applied 
for the recognition of revenue and costs in respect of the LightSquared 
Cooperation Agreement. Both the percentage of completion and straight-
line method have been used to recognise revenue and costs relating to the 
different phases of the Cooperation Agreement; the Audit Committee has 
deemed the methods used appropriate. 
 > Provision for uncollectable trade receivables and for  
inventory write-downs 
As a result of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the Group estimates 
its required provision for uncollectable trade receivables and for inventory 
write-downs at the end of each period. The Audit Committee is satisﬁed  
that the provision at the end of the year is based on management’s latest 
available information and is therefore appropriate. 
 > Capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowing costs 
Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch costs and 
other associated costs, including ground infrastructure. In addition, borrowing 
costs attributable to qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost 
of those assets. Given the nature of the Group’s business, signiﬁcant capital 
expenditure is incurred on space segment assets. The key judgements 
involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and associated 
borrowings costs are:
 – whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRSs have been met;
 – whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation  
of costs should cease and depreciation should commence; and
 – whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a  
result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
The external auditor examined the capitalisation of development costs in  
the year, particularly in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band satellite 
programmes and reported its ﬁndings to the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee is satisﬁed that space segment assets and associated borrowing 
costs have been capitalised correctly in the year. 
 > Revenue recognition 
A key area of judgement in respect of revenue recognition, especially in  
the telecommunications industry, is in respect of the timing of recognition. 
The Group’s internal audit team have kept revenue systems, processes  
and recognition as a focus area during the year and the external auditor 
performed detailed audit procedures on revenue recognition, with the 
ﬁndings of both being reported to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee 
have therefore concluded that the Group’s revenue recognition policies 
continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
External auditor
Under the ﬁnal Order issued by the Competition and Markets Authority, a FTSE 
350 company is prohibited from appointing an auditor unless there has been  
a competitive tender process in relation to one or more of the preceding nine 
ﬁnancial years or in relation to the next ﬁnancial year. A competitive tender 
process is a process where the Company invites and evaluates bids for the 
provision of statutory audit services from two or more auditors. Under the 
transitional provisions of the Order, given that our current Auditor was appointed 
in 2006, we are required to undertake a competitive tender for the 2016 ﬁnancial 
year audit. Given their length of tenure, it is possible for the existing Auditor to be 
reappointed as a result of the tender. With the additional EU directive and UK BIS 
consultation, we expect that the requirement to have auditor rotation after  
20 years will become effective and if the current Auditor was reappointed as  
a result of the tender, it could not remain in place beyond 20 years from the  
date of their appointment in 2006. 
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of 
mechanisms. T o ensure the Auditor’ s independence, the Committee annually 
reviews the Company’ s relationship with the Auditor and receives summaries  
at each Audit Committee meeting as to its independence. The Committee 
concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional relationship 
with the Auditor and that there are sufﬁcient controls and processes in place  
to ensure the required level of independence. The external auditor is required  
to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every ﬁve years.  
The current audit partner was appointed in 2011 and the ﬁnal audit he  
will be responsible for is the 2015 ﬁnancial year. For the year ending  
31 December 2014, the Committee has provided to the Board its 
recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte  
as the Group’s Auditor. During the year, the Auditor charged the Group  
$1.6m (2013: $1.6m) for audit and audit-related services.
Non-audit services
The Company’ s Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where,  
as a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, 
perform the work in question. A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision 
of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate protection  
of their independence and objectivity .
Fees charged by the Auditor in respect of non-audit services require the prior 
approval of the Audit Committee, except where the Audit Committee has agreed 
that the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and tax 
compliance work from the Auditor of up to £50,000 for any one project, without 
the need to seek approval for individual projects. Any commitments above this 
amount will require Audit Committee Chairman approval. A summary is supplied 
to the Audit Committee at each meeting where amounts have been committed 
below £50,000. A breakdown of the fees paid to the Auditor during the year is  
set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
It is the Company’ s practice that it will seek quotes from several ﬁrms, which may 
include the Auditor, before work on non-audit projects is awarded. Contracts are 
awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits. The Committee and the 
Company’ s management are aware that the level of fees paid to the Auditor for 
non-audit services compared to audit services was signiﬁcantly higher several 
years ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain 
transactions and has worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have 
reduced over the last few years. The Committee does not believe that asking the 
Auditor to undertake non-audit work is an issue for the Company as it is satisﬁed 
with the quality of work and advice provided and, importantly, it believes the 
independence of the Auditor is not at risk. Additionally, where non-audit work is 
undertaken management will have negotiated competitive rates for each  
piece of work.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 64
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED We receive advice from other ﬁrms for speciﬁc projects and other long-term 
projects. We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various projects – 
some new projects and some have been continuing for several years. We also 
use different ﬁrms to support us on V A T and ad hoc P A YE issues. 
During the year, the Auditor charged the Group $1.0m (2013: $1.3m) for 
non-audit related services.
Internal audit
Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of 
the Internal Audit Department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting. 
The Internal Auditor presents reports at each meeting covering updates on 
internal audit activities, results of audits and follow-up actions required and  
their annual audit plan. The Chairman of the Committee meets with the  
Internal Auditor as required but generally at least once a year.
REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 
The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Nominations Committee meets as and when necessary, 
generally at least once a year, and during the year was represented by Andrew 
Sukawaty, its Chairman, Admiral James Ellis Jnr (Rtd), Stephen Davidson,  
Dr Abe Peled and John Rennocks. Dr Hamadoun T ouré joined the Committee  
on 1 March 2015. During 2014 the Committee met ﬁve times. 
The table below shows who makes up the Nominations Committee and their 
attendance at meetings during 2014:
The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as 
Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity (including gender) 
consideration, and a broad representation of skills across the Board. In doing  
this, the Committee will give full consideration to succession planning and the 
leadership needs of the Company . 
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition 
of the Board’ s Committees and will review and make recommendations in relation 
to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the diversity and 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the 
Non-Executive Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board 
concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director as he or she 
reaches their sixth year of reappointment and separately with a view to assessing 
their continuing independence thereafter, particularly when Directors are seeking 
to be reappointed after serving nine or ten years. The Committee also reviews 
and recommends the annual election and re-election of any Director by 
shareholders and changes to senior management, including Executive Directors. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and  
with due regard to the beneﬁts of diversity on the Board. This process is led by  
the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board. 
Name
Nominations 
Committee
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Sukawaty (Chairman) 5/5
(1)
100%
Stephen Davidson 5/5 100%
Admiral James Ellis Jnr (Rtd) 1/2 50%
Abe Peled 5/5 100%
John Rennocks 5/5 100%
(1)  For one meeting, Mr Sukawaty did not participate for the full meeting as a member  
of the Committee as the business of the meeting related to his own position and a 
possible transition to become Non-Executive Chairman.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Board’ s practice is to use a 
combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals.  
The three new Non-Executive Directors who were appointed in June 2014 and 
February and March 2015 were personal recommendations from a Director or a 
recommendation made to a Director. For the replacement of the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer position, the Company engaged Russell Reynolds Associates. Russell 
Reynolds Associates has no other connection with the Company . Details of  
the process adopted for the CFO appointment was described in our 2013  
Annual Report.
In considering the skills required for new Non-Executive Directors, there was 
speciﬁc focus on seeking an individual who had experience in senior ranking 
positions within the US Government to replace the skill set and knowledge from 
the Board upon the retirement of Admiral James Ellis Jnr (Rtd), and we felt that 
General Kehler met all these requirements. The proﬁle and experience of Robert 
Ruijter as a qualiﬁed ﬁnancial expert and his operational experience was an 
excellent ﬁt for coming onto the Board and becoming a member of the Audit 
Committee as this Committee will have three Directors as its members who all 
reach ten years’ service in 2015 and will retire in due course. Having Mr Ruijter join 
the Committee and beneﬁt from their experience will be very helpful to him and 
the Company in the future. Dr T ouré has deep experience within international 
organisations handling regulatory issues and championing the cause of bringing 
broadband communications to rural areas, particularly in Africa. Additionally, he 
has industry experience having previously worked as a satellite engineer. Dr T ouré 
is a member of the Nominations Committee and we are creating a separate 
Committee which will focus on regulatory activities where we will be able to draw 
on his considerable recent experience to assist our awareness of regulatory 
affairs. We had identiﬁed the desire to extend the mix of Directors from a cultural 
and background point of view and we believe the two Directors who have joined  
in 2015 fulﬁl these criteria. As part of the recruitment process, the individuals 
generally met the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, the Chairmen of the Audit  
and Remuneration Committees and the Company Secretary . Other members  
of the Board were also given the opportunity to meet them.
All currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2015 AGM and offer themselves 
for reappointment, or offer themselves for appointment as appropriate. As noted 
earlier in the Corporate Governance Report, the Committee has agreed that it 
was appropriate that although some Directors had exceeded their six-year term 
of ofﬁce, they remain independent in their contribution, and should be invited  
to serve for a longer period and that the three Directors who will have served  
ten years at the 2015 AGM remain independent. As detailed earlier in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 59, Stephen Davidson will step down as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after the 2015 AGM and will be 
succeeded by Simon Bax. Mr Davidson will remain a member of the Committee 
and a Director of the Company .
The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers diversity in its 
broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to the Board. 
It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company; 
diversity, including gender; and what skills and expertise are needed on the  
Board and from senior management in the future. Gender is one element of the 
considerations made in appointing senior management and Board members,  
and as part of general recruitment practices across the Group. The Committee 
gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work and  
was pleased to note that with the recent senior management changes that  
took place within the business it followed the recommendations set out in the 
succession planning document. This document will be updated to reﬂect the 
changes made and identify additional staff members who will form part of  
the overall management succession planning. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 65 Details of the changes to be operated in 2015 to the annual bonus plan and one 
of the share plans, the Bonus Share Award, are covered on page 78 and for the 
Performance Share Award, our L TIP , on pages 78 and 79.
I do though want to highlight in this letter information about the changes to the 
performance metrics of the long-term share plan (the Performance Share 
Award). During 2014 the Company continued to progress existing strategic 
programmes such as:
 > the launch and successful deployment of our Global Xpress  
satellite programme; 
 > maximising revenue opportunities for our L -band services. 
 > becoming a major participant in the rapidly growing market for  
aviation services 
There is more detail about these programmes in the strategy section of the 
Annual Report on pages 22 and 23, and we believe they underpin long-term 
shareholder value. Hence it is important to align part of the long-term share  
plan for our Executive Directors with these same strategic goals. We have 
communicated to our largest shareholders the rationale for the inclusion of 
strategic objectives to be part of the long-term incentive award which will be 
made shortly after the full year results are announced in March 2015. Those 
strategic objectives will be one of three performance metrics; the other two 
continue to be EBITDA growth and the use of relative TSR. Details of the  
2015 award are shown on pages 78 and 79.
A Group-wide salary benchmarking review took place during 2014 with the 
outcome that we awarded an average salary increase of just over 7% across the 
Group, effective July 2014. This exercise has put us back on track for staff reviews 
and gives us a sound base from which future increases can be made. As we have 
highlighted in previous Remuneration Reports, our CEO, Rupert Pearce’ s salary is 
below the median of his benchmark and we have been moving him up gradually 
to the appropriate level. He was therefore awarded a 15% salary rise in 2014 
(following a freeze in 2013). We will review his salary in July 2015 and expect to 
make an increase then. We also appointed a new CFO, T ony Bates, during this 
year. T ony’ s remuneration package was determined in line with the approved 
Remuneration Policy and best practice, and is discussed in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration on page 75.
2014 was the last year of executive service for Andy Sukawaty, as effective  
1 January 2015, he became Inmarsat’ s Non-Executive Chairman. Andy will receive 
no new share plan awards but will beneﬁt from plans vesting where he is already a 
participant subject to performance conditions being met and time proportioned 
according to plan rules.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since the Company listed in June 2005. 
It has been a privilege to undertake this role and I’d like to thank our shareholders 
whole heartedly for their engagement and support. I will step down as Chairman 
after the AGM in May and Simon Bax who joined the Board in 2013 will take on the 
responsibility . I will remain a Committee member. I wish Simon every success in 
this new role.
A resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration (which is subject  
to an advisory vote) will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May .
STEPHEN DAVIDSON
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
5 March 2015
STEPHEN DAVIDSON
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
ANNUAL STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
During 2014 we have taken major steps towards delivering transformational 
growth opportunities for the Company . We have also delivered good ﬁnancial 
results and excellent returns for shareholders, TSR over the last two years has 
exceeded 50%, and dividends increased by 5% and have increased every year 
since our IPO in 2005.
This is our second year of reporting under the new regime where the report is 
divided into two sections: our Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on 
Remuneration. We received a strong endorsement of both reports last year with 
shareholders at the AGM supporting the Remuneration Policy Report with 97% 
of votes in favour and the Annual Report on Remuneration receiving 98% of 
votes. We have made some minor changes in the Remuneration Policy Report 
which are highlighted on the next page and provided explanations regarding the 
changes in the relevant section of the Reports. 
I thought it would be helpful to shareholders if I focused on some of the changes 
in relation to application of our policy as the Remuneration Committee feels they 
warrant highlight.
The Committee has been closely involved in reviewing and improving the  
annual bonus arrangements and the two executive share plans which operate. 
The review has concentrated on:
 > achieving a closer linkage between strategy, long-term shareholder value  
and remuneration; and
 > simpliﬁcation of and closer alignment between corporate and  
Business Unit plans.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 66
REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM. The report below is as disclosed  
in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report save a number of minor changes as follows:
 > References to ﬁnancial years have been updated where appropriate;
 > Share awards made after the 2014 AGM have been renamed Bonus Share Awards (BSA) and Performance Share Awards (PSA) following shareholder approval  
of the Executive Share Plan (ESP) at the 2014 AGM;
 > Minor revisions have been made to the performance metrics for BSA and PSA awards, and the annual bonus, from 2015 and details are shown on  
pages 78 and 79;
 > Pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reﬂect 2015 salaries;
 > New Non-Executive Director appointment expiry dates have been updated; and
 > Details for the Executive Chairman role have been omitted in light of Mr Sukawaty’s move to a Non-Executive Chairman role effective 1 January 2015.
The Group’ s Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking rewards  
to the achievement of ﬁnancial and strategic goals of the Group. When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, 
including the Group’ s overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our Long Range 
Business Plan (LRBP), pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation. Where appropriate, we will consult with shareholders in 
advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements. The Committee is 
committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve the Company’ s 
objectives which will create value for shareholders.
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance
Basic salary Paying market-competitive base 
salaries, commensurate with the 
individual’s role, responsibilities 
and experience allows us to 
recruit and retain Executive 
Directors of the calibre required 
to implement our strategy.
Salaries are reviewed annually with any increase 
usually made in July or following a material change  
in responsibilities. The Committee will determine  
any increases to be made.
Any increase is determined by a formal appraisal  
by the Committee, taking into account market pay 
levels, a review of salaries against companies of 
similar size, complexity and type, Group performance, 
as well as the remuneration arrangements operated 
throughout the Group, with reference to UK based 
employees in particular for pay comparison levels. 
Salary increases will be applied in line with 
the outcome of an annual salary review.
The maximum annual salary increase will 
normally be in line with the average increase 
applied to the UK workforce. However,  
larger increases may be awarded in certain 
circumstances including, but not limited to, 
an increase in scope or responsibility of the 
role; to apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed Director; where the Director’s 
salary has fallen behind market positioning. 
Where increases are awarded in excess  
of that for the UK employee population,  
the Committee will provide the rationale  
in the relevant year’s Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
As previously disclosed to shareholders,  
it is anticipated that the CEO’s salary will 
increase at a greater level than that for the 
general employee population as his salary 
was intentionally set below market rates on 
appointment because he was new to the  
role as CEO.
Not applicable
Beneﬁts in kind We provide cost-effective 
beneﬁts which support the 
wellbeing of employees.
Provision of death, disability and medical insurance 
cover (which can include spouse and dependents 
cover). Life assurance of 4 x salary, paid holiday  
and medical check-ups are also provided. 
If required, the Company would provide access to 
independent ﬁnancial and legal advice on a case  
by case basis.
Cash in lieu of a company car was previously provided 
to one Director although it is not anticipated this will 
be offered generally to Executive Directors.
These beneﬁts are non-pensionable.
The beneﬁts provided may vary by role  
and levels of cover provided reﬂect market 
practice and the individual circumstances  
of the Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current cost  
of beneﬁts (as set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration) would increase materially 
over the period for which this policy  
will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion  
to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) or in 
circumstances where factors outside the 
Company’s control have changed materially 
(e.g. market increases in insurance costs).
Not applicable
Pension We provide deﬁned contribution 
pension arrangements, or cash  
in lieu of pension.
We provide deﬁned contribution pension 
arrangements, or cash in lieu of pension. The 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in  
the Company’s deﬁned contribution pension plan 
arrangements or other similar pension plans as 
appropriate to the Executive Director’s nationality  
or location. 
Contributions are based on a percentage of salary 
which is currently limited to a pensions cap. The 
Company also operates an auto-enrolment pension 
scheme which an Executive Director could participate 
in instead of the main pension plan.
Maximum employer contributions are 
currently 12.5% of the capped salary  
under the UK pension plan. 
 
The Committee may review pension 
contribution levels in the future if 
benchmarking reﬂects that the current 
contribution levels and method of 
calculation are off-market. Any increase  
in contributions would not result in a  
pension contribution in excess of 20%  
of the uncapped basic salary.
Not applicable
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 67 REPLACEMENT SHARE PLANS
The Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan (ESP) was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans. Share awards since 
May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards and Performance Share Awards, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan and Performance Share 
Plan awards. The Company will also be able to grant Restricted Share Awards under the ESP . Restricted Share Awards will not be subject to performance conditions, 
and will not be granted to Executive Directors except on recruitment, as explained below in the ‘Approach to Recruitment Remuneration’.
The Company also received shareholder approval at its 2014 AGM for the Inmarsat plc 2014 Sharesave Plan and the Inmarsat plc 2014 Share Incentive Plan,  
replacing the previous Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan which had expired. Executive Directors are eligible to participate in these plans.
PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING VARIABLE PAY AWARDS
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation in May 2014 of the Remuneration Policy.  
Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when it is not 
consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulﬁlled.
Details of outstanding awards to Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance
Annual  
cash bonus
We provide an annual bonus to 
incentivise the achievement of 
annual ﬁnancial and operational 
goals in line with Group strategy. 
Performance metrics are selected 
to support the annual business 
strategy which we believe also 
lead to enhancement of 
shareholder value.
Bonus payment levels are determined by the 
Committee annually by reference to performance 
against targets set at the start of the ﬁnancial  
year. Personal objectives are set annually by  
the Committee.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the 
ability to exercise discretion to override the formulaic 
bonus outcome within the limits of the scheme where 
it believes the outcome is not truly reﬂective of 
performance, and to reﬂect the actual delivery of 
value to shareholders. Any discretionary adjustments 
will be detailed in the following year’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to 
clawback bonuses in certain exceptional 
circumstances which may include (but are not limited 
to) gross misconduct, fraud or a signiﬁcant downward 
revision of the ﬁnancial results of the Group. 
Maximum opportunity:
125% of salary.
Target opportunity.
75% of salary.
Bonus is based on achievement  
of annual ﬁnancial and  
personal objectives.
The personal element will not be 
weighted more than 30% of the 
total in any year.
Details of the measures and 
weightings applicable for the 
ﬁnancial year under review are 
provided in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. 
The Committee may change  
the measures used if other 
measures are deemed more 
suitable to allow delivery of  
the Company’s strategy.
Bonus Share 
Award (BSA)
We provide the opportunity  
to participate in the BSA as it  
links the delivery of short-term 
ﬁnancial and operational 
performance to sustained 
shareholder value creation. 
Participation in the BSA 
reinforces continued delivery  
of the LRBP.
We make annual monetary awards which convert  
to a number of shares subject to achievement  
of agreed annual ﬁnancial targets. The resulting  
shares vest over the subsequent three years,  
subject to continued employment.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over  
the vesting period are awarded only on the number  
of shares that vest.
Unvested awards and vested awards that have not yet 
been transferred to the Executive Director are subject 
to clawback, i.e. forfeiture or reduction in exceptional 
circumstances. Such circumstances may include  
(but are not limited to) gross misconduct, fraud or  
a signiﬁcant downward revision of the ﬁnancial  
results of the Group.
Maximum opportunity for all Executive 
Directors is up to 200% of salary (300%  
in exceptional circumstances).
The Committee’s current intention is to  
make awards of up to 200% and 175% of 
salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively.
Threshold performance results in  
60% conversion of the monetary  
award into shares.
The Committee sets annual 
performance measures (currently 
based on the same ﬁnancial 
objectives as for the annual  
cash bonus plan) and may  
change these for future awards  
as it considers appropriate.
Performance 
Share Award 
(PSA)
We believe the PSA aligns 
executives’ interests with 
long-term shareholder value 
creation through rewarding the 
delivery of a mix of ﬁnancial 
measures and relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’).
The ﬁnancial performance 
measures in the PSA reﬂect the 
value drivers in the LRBP.
We make annual awards of shares, which vest after  
at least three years subject to performance over  
a three-year period.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over  
the vesting period are awarded only on the number  
of shares that vest.
Unvested awards are subject to clawback, i.e. 
forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances. 
Such circumstances may include (but are not limited 
to) gross misconduct, fraud or a signiﬁcant downward 
revision of the ﬁnancial results of the Group. 
Maximum opportunity for all Executive 
Directors is up to 200% of salary (300%  
in exceptional circumstances).
Threshold performance will result in the 
vesting of 30%/0%/0% of the maximum 
award under the TSR/EBITDA/strategic 
performance elements.
The intended award levels are included  
in the Annual Report on Remuneration  
on page 78.
The performance measures and 
respective weightings may vary 
year-on-year to reﬂect strategic 
priorities, and will include a 
ﬁnancial market measure. 
Measures for outstanding PSPs 
include an element for relative 
TSR and EBITDA, and PSAs from 
2015 include a third element 
linked to strategic performance.
Details of the measures and 
weightings applicable for the 
ﬁnancial year under review are 
provided in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. Changes to 
weightings and performance 
targets will be retrospectively 
explained to shareholders.
Employee  
share plans
To encourage share ownership 
across all employees as allowed 
by HMRC and relevant local laws.
We operate employee share savings plans for our 
global workforce where, depending on location, 
savings periods of between 2 and 3 years operate. 
We will look at opportunities to offer other  
employee share plans in the future.
Participation levels set by HMRC or  
relevant local laws from time to time.
Not applicable
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 68
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SELECTION
Our incentive plans (excluding restricted share awards and all-employee share 
plans) all include ﬁnancial performance requirements. Performance targets are 
set to be stretching, taking into account the Company’ s strategic priorities and 
the economic environment in which the Company operates. T argets are set 
taking into account a range of reference points including the Group’ s LRBP , 
broker forecasts, and historical performance. Achievement of these targets 
delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP .
The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reﬂect the ﬁnancial targets which the  
Board believes are key to driving the business. Revenue and EBITDA reﬂect the 
underlying ﬁnancial success of the business and support the annual business 
strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsat’ s shareholders. 
The PSA currently has two ﬁnancial performance requirements. EBITDA growth 
and the Company’ s share price performance against the FTSE 50-150 excluding 
investment trusts. A third performance metric has been included for the 2015 
share awards to further improve alignment with our strategy and details are 
provided on pages 78 and 79 where we set out the performance metrics to  
be used. All three performance metrics are linked to our long-term business 
strategy, and support shareholder value creation. 
The Committee retains the ability to adjust and/or set different performance 
measures following a corporate event (such as a change in strategy, a material 
acquisition and/or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing 
market conditions) which causes the Committee to determine that the measures 
are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve 
their original purpose.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined  
on the same principle as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward 
should support our business strategy . It should be sufﬁcient to attract and  
retain high-performing individuals. 
As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements 
that are appropriate to apply but overall, this principle applies across the different 
geographies in which we operate. Employees receive variable pay which gives 
them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is reﬂective of 
how we deal with Executive Directors too.
In general, the remuneration policy and principles which apply to other senior 
executives is consistent with that set out in this report for Executive Directors.  
All employees participate in bonus schemes. Group senior executives are eligible 
to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA. The BSA may 
operate with division-speciﬁc targets for some participants, as appropriate. 
All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are 
generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent international plan. 
Participation is on generally the same terms subject to local regulations.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold 5x base salary in 
beneﬁcially owned ordinary shares.
For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build up a 
shareholding to the 5x guideline over a period of time, generally within ﬁve  
to seven years.
PAY SCENARIO CHARTS
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward 
opportunities for the two current Executive Directors (CEO and CFO), and the 
potential split between the different elements of pay under three different 
performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘T arget’ and ‘Maximum’. Potential reward 
opportunities are based on Inmarsat’ s current Remuneration Policy, applied to 
salaries as at 1 January 2015. Note that the projected values exclude the impact 
of any share price movement.
Each element of remuneration reﬂects the following assumptions:
 > Minimum: includes ﬁxed remuneration only, i.e. base salary, taxable  
beneﬁts and pension;
 > Target: includes ﬁxed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target 
performance under the annual cash bonus plan (60% of maximum) and  
BSA (60% of maximum monetary value of 200% and 175% of salary for  
the CEO and CFO respectively), and threshold performance under the PSA 
(30%/0%/0% of maximum under the TSR/EBITDA/strategic performance 
elements, based on maximum opportunities of 200% and 175% of salary  
for the CEO and CFO respectively); and
 > Maximum: includes ﬁxed remuneration and maximum payment under  
all incentive plans. 
CEO: RUPERT PEARCE (£000)
100% 33% 17%
20%
63%
24%
43%
544
1,650
3,269
Minimum On-target Maximum
0
800
1,600
2,400
3,200
4,000
•
Fixed remuneration
•
•
Annual variable remuneration
Long-term remuneration
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
External appointments
In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align 
the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy . 
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new 
Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors (including 
but not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration arrangements for other 
Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from) to 
ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its 
shareholders without paying more than is necessary . The Remuneration Policy  
in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the 
appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as 
appropriate to offer.
CFO: TONY BATES (£000)
100% 35% 18%
22%
60%
25%
40%
475
1,356
2,613
Minimum On-target Maximum
0
600
1,200
1,800
2,400
3,000
•
Fixed remuneration
•
•
Annual variable remuneration
Long-term remuneration
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 69 Details of how we applied the Policy to the recruitment of Mr Bates as our new CFO during 2014 are provided on page 75.
Internal appointments
Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of 
remuneration and beneﬁts. Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period  
of several years, subject to the Executive’ s development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of  
them and set out details of their fees (base fee and Committee membership fee). Fees will be the same level as for other Non-Executive Directors, except where  
the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution. Reasonable expenses will also be paid and cover  
will be provided to all Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, under the Company’ s Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ insurance policy . 
Component Approach Maximum annual value
Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the 
individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and beneﬁts To be eligible to receive beneﬁts in line with the current policy, and as well as any expatriation 
allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Director’s relocation  
on appointment.
Sharesave Scheme To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees. 
Annual cash bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees. The Committee will 
determine on a case by case basis whether the executive will receive the full annual payment 
or a pro-rata amount. 
125% of salary
Bonus Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described 
in the policy table.
Up to 200% of salary 
(300% in exceptional 
circumstances)
Performance Share 
Awards
To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described 
in the policy table. 
Up to 200% of salary 
(300% in exceptional 
circumstances)
Restricted Share Awards To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule which will be agreed  
by the Committee, subject to continued employment only. Awards will typically be made to 
facilitate the ‘buy-out’ of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting 
schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited. Additional shares in lieu of accrued 
dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
Up to 200% of salary 
(300% in exceptional 
circumstances)
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-Executive 
Director fees and 
Committee fees
To attract and retain 
high-calibre Non-
Executive Directors  
by offering a market 
competitive fee level.
The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee. 
The Committee Chairman and other members of the Board 
Committees (Audit, Remuneration, Nominations) and the Senior 
Independent Director/Deputy Chairman are paid supplements to 
reﬂect their additional responsibilities. 
The Board Chairman will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities, 
and receive healthcare cover.
NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and 
Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably 
sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to  
the Board. The Chairman’s fee is reviewed by the Committee taking 
into account fee levels at the same set of companies, and is then 
approved by the Board. If any changes are to be made, they are 
usually effective in July.
To avoid setting expectations, 
there is no maximum fee level.
Aggregate fees were increased 
to £1m following approval by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The fees paid to Non-
Executive Directors in respect 
of the year under review (and 
for the following year) are 
disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to ‘buy-out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so,  
we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted (for example, cash or 
shares), the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out. Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis. The 
Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as Bonus Share Awards, Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards 
under the ESP . The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules (Chapter 9.4.2) regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out 
of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 70
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY
Executive Director Date of service contract Term of ofﬁce Notice period
Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indeﬁnite until termination by either party 12 months’ written notice by Company or Director
Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indeﬁnite until termination by either party 12 months’ written notice by Company or Director
The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director. All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to 
be made. The Company may make such payments monthly (up to 12 months) and these payments shall be reduced if the Executive ﬁnds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one year’ s base salary plus other beneﬁts, which may include annual bonus 
(subject to performance conditions being fulﬁlled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date), unless the Committee believes  
this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith:
 > in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or
 > by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s ofﬁce or employment.
The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into 
consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves. The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following year’ s Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards
Annual bonus
Good leaver (see below for deﬁnition) Normal payment date Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of 
the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be 
pro-rated for time served during the year
All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable
BSA and BSP
Good leaver (see below for deﬁnition) Normal vesting date, although the Committee 
has discretion to accelerate
Any earned but not yet transferred shares will be retained. 
The treatment of unvested shares is at the Committee’s 
discretion
All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable
PSA and PSP
Good leaver (see below for deﬁnition) Normal vesting date, although the Committee 
has discretion to accelerate 
Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and 
subject to performance conditions being met
All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable
RSA
Good leaver (see below for deﬁnition) Normal vesting date, although the Committee 
has discretion to accelerate 
Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time
All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable
Employee Share Plans
Good leaver (see below for deﬁnition) Share options can be exercised for a certain 
period of time after departure
The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options 
in accordance with HMRC approved rules
All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable
A ‘good leaver’ is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the Committee in its 
absolute discretion permits. T ermination for cause is regarded as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Upon a change of control of the Company , share awards may be transferred to participants within such period as the Committee may permit based on the extent to which 
the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met. Alternatively , participants shall be required to give up existing share awards and receive shares 
in the new company being equivalent to the original award. For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance against targets at the point of change of control 
and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and paid immediately . The ﬁnal treatment for the annual bonus remains subject to the Committee’ s discretion.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’ s service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the 
best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure. When determining what compensation, if any , is to be paid to the departing Executive Director , the 
Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Director’ s performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice 
and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director (where it is in the service agreement) to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result. 
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Executive 
Director’ s termination package, including (without limitation) compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement agreement, 
payment of the departing Executive Director’ s legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of outplacement fees. In addition, the Committee 
may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 71 Non-Executive Directors
Name
Date of appointment 
letter Date of appointment
Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013
Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005
Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005
Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 
Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009
Dr Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013
John Rennocks 5 January 2005 4 January 2005
Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015
Andrew Sukawaty
(1)
16 September 2014 1 January 2015
Dr Hamadoun Touré 16 December 2014 1 March 2015
Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd)
(2)
18 April 2005 22 June 2005
(1)  Mr Sukawaty became Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 2015.  
He was previously Executive Chairman.
(2)  Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) retired from the Board on 5 March 2014.
Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, they 
may not remain in ofﬁce for a period longer than six years, or two terms in ofﬁce, 
whichever is the shorter. The Corporate Governance Code has special provisions 
regarding determination of the independence of directors when they have 
served for more than nine years. 
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their appointment 
will normally terminate on:
 > a Director choosing to resign voluntarily;
 > a Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness;
 > if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of  
the appointment;
 > a Director is found guilty of misconduct; and
 > a Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at an AGM.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not participate 
in any of the Company’ s incentive plans. They receive no beneﬁts, except that 
healthcare cover is provided for the Non-Executive Chairman, as a continuation 
of the cover provided to him over the last 10 years. The Company reimburses the 
reasonable expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their 
duties as Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the board of  
other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from 
outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external board appointments. 
Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any guidelines for 
external directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance Code, subject 
at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the Chairman, or in the 
case of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman/Senior Independent Director (SID).
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration 
policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements 
for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for 
senior executives. This relates to philosophy around levels of base salary, 
operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and beneﬁt 
provision also being available across the Group. 
The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a 
range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where  
it operates. Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their  
line managers or to the HR team or to a conﬁdential email address.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views 
and the guidelines of investor bodies. The Remuneration Committee Chairman, 
Deputy Chairman/SID and Company Secretary engage pro-actively with  
major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.  
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on Remuneration 
Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to consulting shareholders  
in advance of major changes. Details of votes cast for and against the resolution 
to approve last year’ s remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration section of this report.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERA TION
The following section provides details of how Inmarsat’ s Remuneration Policy  
was implemented during the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2014 and how 
the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2015.
The Regulations require our external auditor to report to shareholders on the 
audited information within this report and to state whether, in their opinion, the 
relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act. The external 
auditor’ s opinion is set out on pages 84 to 87 and we have clearly marked the 
audited sections of the report. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2014
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. We 
had ﬁve scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities. 
Committee membership and attendance are set out in the table below:
Number of scheduled meetings in 2014 Attendance 
Stephen Davidson (Committee Chairman) 5/5
Sir Bryan Carsberg 5/5
Kathleen Flaherty 5/5
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd)
(1)
3/3
Simon Bax 5/5
Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd)
(2)
2/2
(1)   General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) joined the Board on 6 May 2014.
(2)  Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) retired from the Board on 5 March 2014.
During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which ensured 
that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year. Its key 
activities included:
 > annual review of Executive Director salaries;
 > review of performance outcomes for the annual bonus, BSA and PSA in 
respect of performance to 31 December 2014;
 > calibration of award levels and targets for the 2014 BSA and PSA awards for 
the Executive Directors;
 > review of the new Non-Executive Chairman’s fee;
 > preparation of the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report, including 
consideration of the changes required in order to comply with new  
reporting regulations;
 > review of the service contract of Mr Bates, who was appointed to the Board as 
CFO in June 2014;
 > comprehensive review of incentive plans across the Group;
 > consideration of shareholder views on issues which may have arisen during 
the year;
 > review of potential changes to the operation of the BSA and PSA; and
 > preparation for the 2014 AGM.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 72
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ADVISERS
During 2014, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty (Executive Chairman during the year), Rupert Pearce (CEO), T ony Bates (CFO), Debbie Jones 
(Executive Vice President, Corporate Development whose responsibilities include human resources), Alison Horrocks (Executive Vice President, Corporate Governance 
and Company Secretary) and Matt Smith, Inmarsat’ s Head of Reward. John Rennocks, the Company’ s Deputy Chairman also attends the meetings and contributes to  
the discussion. No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and continued to act as the 
Committee’ s independent external adviser during the year. Kepler’ s responsibilities include a mandate to review our remuneration principles and practices against 
corporate governance best practice. Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants 
(which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). Kepler provides no non-remuneration-related services to the Company and is therefore  
considered independent. During 2014, Kepler’ s fees were based on time and materials, and fees (excluding V A T and expenses) totalled £36,300 (2013: £33,700). 
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2014 AGM
The following table shows the results of the binding and advisory shareholder vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration  
of the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report, respectively, at the 2014 AGM:
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration
Total number  
of votes
% of  
votes cast
Total number  
of votes
% of  
votes cast
For (including discretionary) 320,673,577 96.73% 321,288,935 98.41%
Against 10,836,312 3.27% 5,177,325 1.59%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 331,509,889 100% 326,466,260 100%
Votes withheld 6,733,406 n/a 11,777,035 n/a
We have followed up with any queries from shareholders during the year on remuneration and general governance issues and sought the views of several shareholders 
regarding the former Executive Chairman’ s transition to the Non-Executive Chairman role. Shareholders contacted were supportive and this input was valuable to the 
Board and Nominations Committee in their decision-making. 
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this 
translates into our executive Remuneration Policy . The Committee wrote to the Company’ s major shareholders in early 2015 regarding the introduction of strategic 
measures within the PSA from 2015.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single ﬁgure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the prior year: 
Andrew Sukawaty
£'000
Rupert Pearce
£'000
Tony Bates
(6)
£'000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Basic salary 615 615 485 451 263 –
Taxable beneﬁts
(1)
38 24 9 7 7 –
Pension
(2)
88 77 16 14 9 –
Annual bonus
(3)
738 627 622 469 563 –
Bonus share plan
(4)
1,181 1,181 677 493 450 –
Long-term incentives
(5)
1,222 – 543 – 0 –
Total 3,882 2,525 2,352 1,434 1,292 –
(1)   The taxable beneﬁts received by the Executive Directors include healthcare beneﬁts, a car allowance for one Director and beneﬁts relating to staff entertaining. The Company also 
reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled. These travel expenses are  
subject to a speciﬁc deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable. The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment beneﬁt is settled by the Company.
(2) Represents the pension payment made by the employer to the pension scheme and/or to the individual Director as cash in lieu of pension (see page 77 for details).
(3) Represents the annual bonus payment in relation to the ﬁnancial year (see pages 74 and 75 for details).
(4)  Represents the face value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award in relation to the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014 and awarded under the Bonus Share Plan  
in relation to the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2013 (see page 76 for details).
(5) Represents the value of Performance Share Plan awards based on the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2014.
(6) Tony Bates joined on 2 June 2014. His salary and beneﬁts are pro-rated. His annual bonus and Bonus Share Award amounts are annualised ﬁgures.
(7)  Mr Medlock left the Board and the Company on 3 January 2014. He received £3,700 (2013 : £340,000) as basic salary, £487 (2013: £5,000) for taxable beneﬁts and £185 (2013:£17,000) 
as a pension contribution in 2014. He also received £2,600 for leave not taken. No bonus was paid for 2014, and all his outstanding awards under the BSP and PSP lapsed.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 73 INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 
Annual cash bonus in respect of 2014 performance 
In 2014, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group  
ﬁnancial targets and individual performance objectives.
80% of the bonus is linked to ﬁnancial performance, as measured through 
revenue (50% of ﬁnancial element), operating expenditure (35%) and capital 
expenditure on an accruals basis (15%). 
The remaining 20% of the bonus is linked to personal performance, as appraised 
against achievement of challenging objectives set by the Committee at the start 
of the year. Personal performance targets are clearly deﬁned and measurable, 
and are linked to Group strategic and operational performance. 
The outcomes under the ﬁnancial and personal elements are calculated, and  
the Committee exercises its judgement in applying a corporate multiplier to the 
ﬁnancial elements of the bonus based on the achievement of the ﬁnancial 
targets, along with a broader assessment of Company performance and 
individual contributions over the year.
In January and March 2014, the Committee reviewed the above three ﬁnancial 
performance elements in respect of the current year, and determined them to 
remain appropriate measures to use for the annual bonus plan for Executive 
Directors. The Committee will disclose the 2014 ﬁnancial targets in next year’ s 
Annual Report on Remuneration. We believe the targets used are commercially 
sensitive if made public in the same reporting period as to which they apply .
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2014 are 
noted in the next column. Some have been excluded where we believe they  
may be commercially sensitive if published.
 > Ensure CEO success through a constructive and supportive  
teaming relationship;
 > Assist the CEO generally in support of business success;
 > Manage the Board and Board evaluation process effectively;
 > Support the Inmarsat-5 satellite programme delivery;
 > Maintain relationships with major shareholders and the  
investment community;
 > Participate in Inmarsat business development efforts in BRIC countries; and
 > Transition all key executive objectives to CEO by the end of 2014.
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
 > Deliver the 2014 ﬁnancial budget as to revenues and  
EBITDA performance;
 > Maintain the Global Xpress Ka-band programme on time and to budget;
 > Complete the sale of our retail energy business and leverage market 
partnership for Global Xpress;
 > Defend the Company’s position regarding LightSquared while it is  
in bankruptcy; and
 > Review opportunities for how to utilise the S-band license.
CEO
 > Deliver the 2014 ﬁnancial budget as to revenues and  
EBITDA performance;
 > Upgrade the forecasting, budgeting and planning processes to implement 
more robust process and content;
 > Agree and implement changes in internal and external reporting; and
 > Reorganise the ﬁnance function to align with the set up of the 
organisation through Business Units.
CFO
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single ﬁgure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the prior year: 
Base fee
£'000
Additional fees
£'000
Taxable beneﬁts
£'000
Total
£'000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Simon Bax 50.8 26.8 4.5 2.5 – – 55.3 29.2
Sir Bryan Carsberg 50.8 50.0 9.0 9.0 1.0 1.0 59.8 60.0
Stephen Davidson 50.8 50.0 19.0 19.0 1.0 1.0 69.8 70.0
Kathleen Flaherty 50.8 50.0 4.5 4.5 – – 55.3 54.5
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd)
(1)
67.0 – 3.0 – – – 70.0 –
Janice Obuchowski 50.8 50.0 4.5 4.5 – – 55.3 54.5
Dr Abe Peled 50.8 26.8 4.5 2.4 – – 55.3 29.2
John Rennocks 95.5 94.1 10.0 10.0 1.0 – 105.5 104.1
Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd)
(2)
17.3 98.0 1.6 9.0 – – 18.9 107.0
Total 484.6 445.7 60.6 60.8 3.0 2.0 545.2 508.5
Exchange Rate – of $1.5593/£1.00
(1) General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) joined the Board on 6 May 2014.
(2)   Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) retired from the Board on 5 March 2014.
The fee for Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) included a fee as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US. As at 5 March 2014, this fee was $13,427.86  
converted from Sterling at the spot rate at each payment date.
The fee for General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) included a fee of £51,500 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US.
The taxable beneﬁts received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings. The tax due in respect of 
these beneﬁts is settled by the Company. The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place  
in the country in which they are domiciled. These travel expenses are subject to a speciﬁc deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible.
The fee for John Rennocks includes the work he undertakes as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 74
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2014, revenues were $1,286m, which exceeded stretch performance. Operating expenses were $372m which performed better than stretch; capital expenditure on 
an accruals basis of $425m also performed better than stretch. A corporate multiplier was applied to the ﬁnancial element of the bonus based on these results and 
the Committee’ s judgement of broader Company performance. The maximum and target annual bonus amounts that could be paid and actual cash bonus which  
will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out below.
Name
Target bonus
(% of salary)
Maximum bonus
(% of salary)
Actual bonus  
outcome 
for 2014 
ﬁnancial year
(% of salary)
Bonus paid  
for the 2013  
ﬁnancial year
(% of salary)
Andrew Sukawaty 75% 125% 120% 102%
Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 120% 104%
Tony Bates 75% 125% 125% Nil
Mr Bates received an annual bonus opportunity as if he had been employed for the full year of 2014. The Committee decided that a full year’ s annual bonus 
opportunity was warranted because of Mr Bates’ strong performance and contribution to the Company since his appointment in June 2014, and because in agreeing 
the terms for Mr Bates to join the Company, he gave up committed cash bonus awards at his previous employer. Some of the key contributions Mr Bates has already 
made to the business have been in the new reporting structure for internal and external reporting to simplify the external view of the quarterly ﬁnancial statements; 
these changes have been very positively received by analysts and shareholders. Additionally, he has been instrumental in enabling the Company to ﬁnalise an 
outstanding tax matter which has been of ﬁnancial beneﬁt to the Company . The combined value of the annualised cash bonus award (125% of salary) and awards  
of 100% of salary under the BSA and PSA, were below the value of awards foregone by Mr Bates at his previous employer. These levels of awards have been made  
in accordance with the Remuneration Policy regarding recruitment remuneration as set out on pages 69 and 70.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2013 PERFORMANCE 
Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2013 bonus ﬁnancial targets in this year's Annual Report on Remuneration. The targets and actual performance 
against them are set out below.
Measure
Weighting  
(% of ﬁnancial element)
Performance targets
Actual performance
Payout  
(% of ﬁnancial element) On-target Stretch
Revenue 50% $1,240m $1,333m $1,262m 23%
Opex 35% $728m $693m $613m 35%
Capex 15% $731m $696m $657m 15%
Total 100% 73%
EBITDA Underpin for BSP $641m $649m Underpin met
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2013 were provided in last year’ s Annual Report on Remuneration, and payout under the personal 
element was 17% and 19% of salary for the Executive Chairman and the CEO, respectively .
A corporate multiplier was applied to the ﬁnancial element based on these results and the Committee’ s judgement of broader Company performance. The Committee 
took into account the outperformance of stretch targets in operating expenses, capital expenditure on an accruals basis and EBITDA, and determined that a corporate 
multiplier of 1.17x, relating to the outperformance on two of the ﬁnancial annual bonus metrics, should be applied to the calculated bonus outcomes. As a result, the 
overall bonus outcomes for 2013 were 102% and 104% of salary for the Executive Chairman and the CEO, respectively .
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2013 PERFORMANCE
Details of the ﬁnancial targets and actual performance against targets in respect of the 2013 BSP award are provided in the ‘Annual cash bonus in respect of 2013 
performance’ section immediately above.
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2014
An allocation of shares will be made in respect of the March 2014 monetary awards based on Company performance for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014. 
The award will be calculated using the mid-market closing price of the Company’ s ordinary shares on the day following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in 
March 2015. The performance measures, weightings and actual performance against target were as follows:
Performance measure
Weighting  
(% of maximum) Actual performance against target
Revenue 50% Revenues were $1,286m which is better than stretch
Operating expenditure 35% Operating expenses were $372m which is better than stretch
Capital expenditure 15% Capital expenditure on an accruals basis were $425m which is better than stretch
The minimum EBITDA level required before any share award could be made was exceeded. Based on performance achieved against each of the targets, 100% of the 
monetary award will be converted to shares.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 75 The table below shows the conversion of the 2014 BSP Award.
Executive Director Maximum monetary award Conversion rate BSP outcome 
Andrew Sukawaty £1,181,148 100% £1,181,148
Rupert Pearce £676,500 100% £676,500
Tony Bates £450,000 100% £450,000
As the conversion from monetary award to shares is calculated after the preliminary results announcement is made, the exact number of shares to be awarded is  
not known at the date of this report. Details of shares awarded will be reported via an RNS to the London Stock Exchange. These shares will vest in equal tranches in 
March 2016, 2017 and 2018, subject to continued employment. Details of the shares awards including performance targets will be included in the 2015 Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
2012 PSP VESTING
On 30 March 2012, the then Executive Chairman and CEO received PSP awards of 304,663 and 135,462 shares. Vesting of the awards was dependent on 3-year TSR 
vs. the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) and 3-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2014 and weighted equally . There was 
no re-testing of performance. Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
Performance measure
Weighting  
(% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs. FTSE 350  
(excluding investment trusts)
50% Below median:    nil vesting
Median:                  30% vesting
Upper quartile:   100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA growth p.a. 50% Less than 1%:     nil vesting
1%:                           0% vesting
4%:                          100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 1% and 4%)
Excluding exceptional income of $192.6m from LightSquared in 2011, over the three years to December 2014, Group EBITDA increased from $661.8m to $701.0m, a 
compound annual growth rate of 1.94%. This level of performance falls within the 1-4% range set at the time the award was made in March 2012 and leads to a 15.97% 
vesting of the total award. In respect of relative TSR, the Company’ s performance was at the 67th percentile vs. the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts), which gave 
a vesting outcome of 38.5% of the total award. The total amount that will vest on 30 March 2015, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 54.47% of the 
maximum award.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2014 (AUDITED)
BSP award in respect of 2013
An allocation of shares was made in respect of the March 2013 BSP monetary awards based on Company performance for the year ended 31 December 2013.  
The share award was based on the mid-market closing price of the Company’ s ordinary shares following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 2014.  
As advised in the 2013 Annual Report the conversion rate was 73% of the monetary amount into an award of shares which vest in equal tranches in March 2015, 2016 
and 2017, subject to continued employment.
Executive Director
Maximum
 monetary award Conversion rate 
Date of 
share award
Awards made 
during the year
Market price at 
date of award
Face value at 
date of award
Andrew Sukawaty £1,618,000 73% 8 March 2014 171,369 £6.89 £1,181,200
Rupert Pearce £676,500 73% 8 March 2014 71,649 £6.89 £493,845
The awards were made to Mr Sukawaty when he was the Executive Chairman of the Company.
2014 PSP
In March and June 2014, the Executive Directors received PSP share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2016.
Executive Director Date of grant
Awards made 
during the year
Market price at 
date of award
Face value at 
date of award Award as % of salary Vesting date
Andrew Sukawaty 19 March 2014 176,207 £6.97 £1,229,484 200% 19 March 2017
Rupert Pearce 19 March 2014 96,954 £6.97 £676,496 150% 19 March 2017
Tony Bates 10 June 2014 58,919 £7.63 £449,993 100% 10 June 2017
Mr Sukawaty remained in an executive position until 31 December 2014. He will therefore be entitled to a pro-rata PSP award of one-third of the award shown above which will vest at the 
normal vesting date subject to performance conditions being achieved. 
Mr Bates was appointed to the Board as CFO in June 2014, and received an award of 100% of salary shortly after his appointment.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 76
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Vesting of the awards will be dependent on 3-year TSR vs. the FTSE50-150 (excluding investment trusts) and 3-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three 
years to 31 December 2016 and weighted equally . There will be no re-testing of performance. Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
Performance measure
Weighting  
(% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 
(excluding investment trusts)
50% Below median:    nil vesting
Median:                  30% vesting
Upper quartile:   100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA growth p.a. 50% Less than 5%:     nil vesting
5%:                           0% vesting
8%:                           100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 8%)
PENSION (AUDITED)
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Company’ s deﬁned contribution pension plan arrangements. None participate in the deﬁned beneﬁt plan.  
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional 
salary . An amount of 12.5% of capped salary is the highest amount paid. The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
Pensionable salary is currently limited to basic salary and subject to a UK Pension Plan Scheme Speciﬁc cap and US Internal Revenue Service earnings caps.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK deﬁned contribution pension plan; Mr Sukawaty was a member of the US 401(K) plan until the end of 2014 at 
which point he became a deferred member of the plan. Mr Sukawaty was entitled to an annual salary supplement equal to 12.5% of the difference between his basic 
salary and the US Internal Revenue Service capped basic salary in lieu of the employer pension contribution. The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan  
is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55. In the US plan, the normal retirement date is age 59.5. There are no additional pension beneﬁts payable if a 
Director retires early .
The current employer contributions (subject to the UK Pension Plan Scheme Speciﬁc cap of £145,200 for the 2014/15 tax year and US Internal Revenue Service 
earnings caps as appropriate) are:
Andrew Sukawaty 12.5% of capped salary was paid in 2014, which is £88,000 in employer contributions 
Rupert Pearce 12% of capped salary was paid in 2014 which is £16,000 in employer contributions (the contribution rate was 10% for the ﬁrst two 
months and 12.5% for the remainder of the year)
Tony Bates 12.5% of capped salary was paid in 2014 which is £9,000 in employer contributions (in respect of the period from 2 June to  
31 December 2014)
EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR (AUDITED)
Mr Medlock, who resigned as a Director and left on 3 January 2014, did not receive any exit payments in 2014. 
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
No payments were made to past Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
One Executive Director held positions in other companies as a Non-Executive Director during the year. The fees he received relating to the 2014 ﬁnancial year were as 
follows: 
Name Company in which Non-Executive Directorship held 2014 fee
Andrew Sukawaty Ziggo B.V. €77,750
Sky plc £58,166
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2015
Base salary
The table below shows the Executive Directors‘ salaries as at July 2013 and July 2014. Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2015, which is the same time for the  
general workforce. 
Name
Salary at 
1 July 2014
£000 % change
Salary at 
1 July 2013
£000
Rupert Pearce 519 15% 451
Tony Bates 450 ––
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 77 We have already indicated to shareholders that the Committee expects to increase Mr Pearce’ s salary each year to reﬂect his demonstrated development in the  
CEO role and the performance of the business. Mr Pearce was appointed on a salary that was signiﬁcantly below the median level for a FTSE 50-150 CEO, and the 
Committee’ s original intention was to increase salary by around 10% in July 2013 in light of strong individual and Company performance. However, no increase was 
awarded, in line with the salary freeze for the wider employee population, and the Committee advised last year that a higher than normal increase might be awarded  
in 2014 and 2015 to move to a more appropriate level of salary for Mr Pearce. 
In this context, the Committee increased Mr Pearce’ s salary by 15% to £519,000, effective 1 July 2014. This increase reﬂects Mr Pearce’ s continued strong performance 
in his role and signiﬁcant contribution to the business, and takes into account last year’ s salary freeze. A salary of £519,000 remains below median for a FTSE 50-150 
CEO. The salary increase applied across the business in 2014 (excluding that for the Executive Director) was around 7%. Both the CEO and CFO’ s salaries will next be 
reviewed in July 2015, taking into account market pay levels and pay increases for the wider employee population. 
Pension
Cash payments in lieu of employer pension contributions for 2015 will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy table set out on page 67, and will be on  
the same basis as those made in 2014. 
Annual cash bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2015 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2014, and will be 125% of salary .
As part of a process of refocusing on Group performance and more closely aligning the bonus schemes across the Group, for 2015 performance will be measured 
by reference to revenue (33%) and EBITDA targets (67%). The Committee believes that operating expenditure (a previous metric) is fully captured within the 
EBITDA metric. Capital expenditure, which by its nature is mainly driven by multi-year major programmes will now be addressed through the long term incentive 
plan objectives. The reason for using revenue and EBITDA is that these two measures have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two of our  
key reporting metrics to shareholders. The Committee has the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of  
the achievement of personal objectives. The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees. As was the case last year, the 
Committee has determined that performance targets will not be disclosed on a prospective basis for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but will be disclosed  
on a retrospective basis in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2015 SHARE AWARDS:
BSA
In March 2015, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately . As in previous years, the level of award will not be conﬁrmed until 
the results for 2015 have been determined and may be lower (but not higher) than the initial award. There is no change to the vesting timetable: the shares will vest in 
equal tranches in March 2017, 2018 and 2019, subject to continued employment. This change, permitted by the Remuneration Policy, has been made in order to more 
closely align the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period. 
It is expected that the level of award in March 2015 will be 200% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively . The performance targets will be the same 
as the ﬁnancial targets for the 2015 annual bonus, being 67% on EBITDA and 33% on revenue.
PSA
A PSA award will be made in March 2015, and it is expected that the level of award will be 200% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates. 
The PSA awards for 2015 will vest after three years based upon three performance conditions, measured over the three years to 31 December 2017. For 2015 the 
performance conditions include:
a. TSR performance vs. the FTSE 50-150 (excluding investment trusts); 
b. EBITDA growth; and 
c.  An additional metric reﬂecting the long-term nature of the Company’ s business model. The Committee believes that it is important for management to be 
additionally focused on delivering critical strategic programmes, e.g. the launch of new satellites, ground infrastructure and business models as part of their 
long-term incentive plan which in turn will drive long-term shareholder value creation. 40% of the total award is currently linked to this metric. The Committee 
considers that the emphasis on strategic objectives may increase over time and remains open to considering other ﬁnancial metrics for future awards. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 78
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance in relation to the 2015 awards will be measured over the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017, and the targets are as follows.
Performance measure Weighting (% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 
(excluding investment trusts)
30% Below median:        nil vesting
Median:                     30% vesting
Upper quartile:      100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA growth p.a. 30% Less than 4%:         nil vesting
10%:                             100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 4% and 10%)
Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are:
 > Global Xpress: completion of the successful launch and market entry for the 
next generation of Inmarsat-5 satellites
 > S-band: putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation leadership 
programme business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017
 > L -band: sustaining L -band revenues despite migration of services from L -band 
to Global Xpress Ka-band, through a re-orientation, expansion and 
globalisation of L -band services
Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are speciﬁc objectives within each area, and further details of the 
objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the 
performance period.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES
Fees paid as follows for a NED: Amount
Basic fee £51,500
Chairman of Audit Committee £10,000
Chairman of Remuneration Committee £10,000
Chairman of Nominations Committee £5,000
Committee membership (per Committee) £4,500
Deputy Chairman/SID (inclusive of all additional Committee fees) £96,908
Chairman £295,000
Fees will next be reviewed in July 2015 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Chairman  
also receives international healthcare cover (£14,555 in 2014).
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The following graph shows the Company’ s performance over the last six years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Company’ s shares compared 
to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index (excluding investment trusts). The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance 
against a broad equity market index. We have also shown the median of the FTSE50-150 (excluding investment trusts), because it aligns with the TSR comparator 
group used under the PSA and closely matches the market size of our business. Note, the constituents of the FTSE 50-150 are based on the companies ranked 50th 
to 150th as at 31 December 2008, excluding those that have delisted since. The date of selection of constituents within that group will be updated from time to time  
to ensure it appropriately reﬂects our FTSE 50-150 TSR comparator group.
0
50
100
150
200
250
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
•
Inmarsat plc
Source: Bloomberg
•
•
FTSE 350 xIT Index
Median of FTSE 50-150 xIT
2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 79 CEO SIX-YEAR EARNINGS HISTORY (AUDITED)
The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the previous six ﬁnancial years is shown in the following table. The information shows single ﬁgure 
remuneration, the annual bonus outcome as a percentage of the maximum, the short-term share award and the long-term share award vesting outcomes as a 
percentage of the maximum.
For the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Chairman and Chief Executive was the same individual reﬂecting a salary for the combined role: Andrew Sukawaty (’AS’). 
Rupert Pearce (‘RP’) became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
Year ended 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014
(1)
Single remuneration  
ﬁgure £m
AS £2.218m £3.661m £2.819m £3.850m
(2)
£2.511m
(2)
£3.882m
(2)
RP–––£1.596m £1.434m £2.352m
Annual bonus outcome  
(% of max)
AS 98% 100% 84% – – -
RP––– 91% 83% 96%
BSP conversion  
(% of max monetary value)
AS 100% 100% 98% – – -
RP––– 100% 73% 100%
PSP award vesting  
(% of max)
AS 100% 100% Nil – – -
RP––– Nil Nil 54.47%
(1) Please refer to page 74 for detail of the single remuneration ﬁgure.
(2)  We are only required to show the single ﬁgure remuneration for each year for the Chief Executive but, as in 2012, 2013 and 2014, Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive 
Chairman, we have therefore also included the single ﬁgure for his remuneration.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION 
The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group. The data is based 
on all UK employees, including Executive Directors (apart from the CEO) and the senior management team.
Change in remuneration from 2013 to 2014
CEO Other UK employees
2014 
(£000)
2013 
(£000)
% 
change
% 
change
Salary 484.8 451.0 7.5% 1%
(3)
Taxable beneﬁts
(1)
1.9 1.9 0% 1.2%
Short term incentives
(2)
1,298 962.8 34.9% 18.6%
Total 1,785.7 1,415.7 79.28% 5.98%
(1)  Taxable beneﬁts represents healthcare beneﬁts; for the CEO it is different compared to the single remuneration ﬁgure as the amount excludes costs for staff entertainment.
(2)  Represents the annual bonus payment for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014 plus the monetary value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Plan corresponding  
to the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2014.
(3)  The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year.
(4)  The reporting periods are 1 January to 31 December 2013 and 2014.
(5)  Effective July 2014, salary increases of approximately 7% to the eligible Other UK employee workforce were awarded. 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
T o assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders 
(dividends) and other signiﬁcant spend. Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of signiﬁcant spent as it shows the investment being made in the 
Company’ s future growth. 
0
140
280
420
560
700
US$m
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
244.8
237.3
213.1
202.6
656.6
424.7
Total employee pay
(1)
(3% decrease)
(1)  Total employee pay takes account of the impact of the disposal of the retail energy operations offset by the acquisition of Globe Wireless resulting in a lower average headcount.
Dividends and share buy-back
(5% increase)
Capital expenditure on an accruals basis
(35% decrease)
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 80
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING (AUDITED)
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2014 based on a share price of £7.99 
as at 31 December 2014:
Shares held
Shareholding
 required
(% salary)
Current
(1)
 
shareholding 
(% salary)
Requirement
 met?
Shares held 
as at 
31 Dec 2013
Shares held 
as at 
31 Dec 2014
Unvested and
 subject to 
deferral
Unvested and
 subject to
 performance 
conditions
Rupert Pearce 623,376 660,252 164,569 330,851 500% 1,269% Yes
Tony Bates – – –––– No
(2)
Andrew Sukawaty
(3)
812,274 937,228 474,900 682,132 500% 1,834% Yes
Simon Bax 3,000 7,000
Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327
Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500
Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) – –
Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000
Abe Peled – 10,000
John Rennocks 43,326 44,291
Robert Ruijter – –
Hamadoun Touré – –
Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) 21,727 N/A
(1) Includes the unvested and subject to deferral shares under the BSP/BSA.
(2) Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014. The shareholding guideline of 5x salary is to be achieved over a 5-7 period.
(3)  Mr Sukawaty became Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 2015. Mr Sukawaty will receive share from share awards made to him when he was Executive Chairman  
which will vest on a time pro-rata basis and subject to the performance conditions being met.
(4)  The unvested and subject to performance conditions includes 100% of the PSP/PSA award made in 2012 of which 54.47% will vest in 2015 as performance conditions have been  
partially met.
(5) Admiral James Ellis Jr (Rtd) retired from the Board on 5 March 2014.
(6) There were no changes in Directors’ interests from 31 December 2014 to 5 March 2015.
(7) Several of our Non-Executive Directors have share interests in excess of 1x salary, although there is no formal shareholding requirement.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INMARSAT LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS AND ALL-EMPLOYEE PLANS (AUDITED)
This information is accurate as at 31 December 2014. Mr Medlock left the Company on 3 January 2014 and any shares that had not vested lapsed upon his departure.
INMARSAT 2005 SHARESAVE SCHEME
Options
held at
1 January
2014
Granted 
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Options
held at
31 December
2014
Option price 
per share
Date from
which 
exercisable
Expiry
date
Andrew Sukawaty 1,960 – – 1,960 £4.59 February 2016 July 2016
Rupert Pearce 1,960 – – 1,960 £4.59 February 2016 July 2016
Mr Sukawaty’s Sharesave options were granted to him when he was Executive Chairman. Mr Sukawaty is entitled to continue making savings to the UK Sharesave scheme as he continues to 
fulﬁl the criteria of the scheme rules to do so.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 81 BONUS SHARE AWARDS
Share awards
held at 1 January
2014 or date of 
appointment 
Awarded
during
the year
Reinvested
dividends
during
the year
(1)
Vested
during
the year
(2)
 
Share awards
held at  
31 December
2014 
Award
Price
Vesting
date
Andrew Sukawaty
Share award made in March 2011
(3)
34,941 – – 34,941 – £6.07 Fully vested in 2014
Share award made in March 2012
(4)
235,382 – 4,777 117,691 122,468 £4.549 
March 2014 and  
March 2015
Share award made in March 2013
(5)
 250,973 – 6,791 83,657 174,107 £6.50
March 2014, March 2015  
and March 2016
Share award made in March 2014
(6)
–171,369 6,956 – 178,325 £6.89
March 2015, March 2016  
and March 2017
Rupert Pearce 
Share award made in March 2011
(3)
16,111 – – 16,111 – £6.07 Fully vested in 2014
Share award made in March 2012
(4)
41,486 – 841 20,743 21,584 £4.549 
March 2014 and  
March 2015
Share award made in March 2013
(5)
98,640 – 2,668 32,880 68,428 £6. 50
 May 2014, March 2015  
and March 2016
Share award made in March 2014
(6)
–71,649 2,908 – 74,557 £6.89
March 2015, March 2016  
and March 2017
Mr Bates joined the Company on 2 June 2014. A monetary award under the 2014 BSA was granted to him on 10 June 2014. Messrs Sukawaty and Pearce received monetary awards in  
March 2014. The 2014 BSA share awards will be converted in full as the performance conditions have been met. Please see pages 75 and 76 for the monetary value to be converted to shares. 
(1)  The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received  
on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
(2)  On 12 March 2014, Mr Sukawaty and Mr Pearce sold sufﬁcient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance at a price of £6.86 per share, representing  
a monetary value of vested shares of £857,184 and £252,969 respectively. 
(3) The shares vest in three equal instalments and the last instalment vested in 2014.
(4) The shares vest in three equal instalments, the second instalment vested in 2014 and the remaining instalment will vest in March 2015.
(5) The shares vest in three equal instalments with the ﬁnal instalment in March 2016.
(6) The shares vest in three equal instalments with the ﬁnal instalment in March 2017.
Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
Share awards
held at
1 January
2014
Awarded
during
the year
Reinvested
dividends
during
the year
(1)
Vested
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year 
Share awards
held at 
31 December
2014 
Award
Price
Vesting
date
Andrew Sukawaty
Award made in 2011
(2)
100,612 – – – 100,612 – £6.11 Lapsed
Award made in 2012
(3)
304,663 –––– 304,663 £4.54 March 2015 
Award made in 2013 201,262 –––– 201,262 £6.87 March 2016
Award made in 2014 – 176,207 – – – 176,207 £6.98 March 2017
Rupert Pearce 
Award made in 2011
(2)
42,986 – – – 42,986 – £6.11 Lapsed
Award made in 2012
(3)
135,462 –––– 135,462 £4.54 May 2015 
Award made in 2013 98,435 –––– 98,435 £6.87 March 2016
Award made in 2014 – 96,954––– 96,954 £6.98 March 2017
Tony Bates 
Award made in 2014 – 58,919 – – – 58,919 £7.64 June 2017
(1)  The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on 
their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
(2) No amount of the 2011 PSP vested in 2014 as performance conditions were not met. 
(3) 54.47% of the 2012 PSP will vest in 2015. Please see page 76 for further details. 
APPROVAL
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March and signed on its behalf by:
STEPHEN DAVIDSON
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
5 March 2015
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 82
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each 
ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under company  
law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁed that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these ﬁnancial 
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 > properly select and apply accounting policies;
 > present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that  
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
 > provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the  
entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
 > make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that  
are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’ s transactions and disclose  
with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’ s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial 
position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole;
 > the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 > the Annual Report and ﬁnancial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary  
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model  
and strategy. This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS 
accounting standards.
By order of the Board
RUPERT PEARCE
DIRECTOR
5 March 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 83
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 84
OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INMARSAT PLC
In our opinion:
 > the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the 
Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
 > the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union;
 > the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 > the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The ﬁnancial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Parent Company Balance 
Sheet, Group and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 40. 
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement on page 83 that the Group is a going concern. We conﬁrm that:
 > we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements is appropriate; and
 > we have not identiﬁed any material uncertainties that may cast signiﬁcant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources 
in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Change in segmental reporting
In light of the internal business restructuring (discussed in note 5 to the ﬁnancial 
statements), and the change of internal and external reporting to view the business on 
a ‘vertical’ basis, there is a risk that the operating segments of the business are not 
appropriately identiﬁed and disclosed in accordance with IFRS 8. 
Furthermore, there is a risk that revenues and expenses may not be appropriately 
allocated to the correct operating segments. 
Given the substantial changes to the way the business is managed and the way 
management information is reported internally (and hence the way ﬁnancial results 
are presented within the Annual Report), there is a risk that inappropriate allocation 
could lead to material disclosure deﬁciencies. 
We have tested the operating effectiveness of controls around the segmental classiﬁcation of revenues 
by tracing a sample of newly activated SIM cards from activation, through the segmentation process, into 
the ﬁnancial systems.
We have reviewed and challenged assumptions applied in allocating revenues and costs between the new 
operating segments, including in particular the conclusion that it is not feasible to allocate the satellite 
and related assets to any of the other segments.
We met with each of the individual business unit heads to corroborate their understanding of the historical 
results and position of their respective reporting segments.
We have compared the internal management information as presented to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (‘CODM’) to the segmental disclosures made in note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements to determine 
whether the requirements of IFRS 8 have been complied with. 
The assessment of the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets 
In accordance with IAS 36, management is required to carry out an annual impairment 
review in respect of goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives. Included 
in intangibles is $422.1m of goodwill.
Impairment reviews are complex, contain highly judgemental assumptions, and are 
predicated on management’s assessment of future proﬁtability.
There is a risk that the assumptions used in the impairment reviews are inappropriate, 
and hence that the wrong conclusion may be drawn in respect of whether an 
impairment is required.
The changes to the Group’s reporting structure has led management to reassess the 
cash generating units (‘CGUs’), and assets including goodwill have been reallocated 
accordingly as a result. Judgement is required in order to ensure that these assets 
have been allocated to the correct CGU, and that any such allocation has been 
performed on a reasonable and consistent basis. 
We have carried out procedures to assess the design and implementation of the controls over the 
impairment of goodwill process.
We have challenged the assumptions used by management in undertaking their impairment review  
(as described in notes 2 and 4 to the ﬁnancial statements).
We considered whether management’s impairment review methodology is compliant with IAS 36.  
Our audit work focused on the assumptions used in the impairment model, including speciﬁcally:
 > Considering management’s assessment and determination of the Group’s CGUs;  
 > Reviewing management’s methodology for reallocation of goodwill and the calculations used to 
support the revised allocation, along with recalculating the allocation.
 > Agreeing the underlying cash ﬂow projections to Board approved forecasts and corroborating the 
trends by evaluating recent performance, and comparing to external market expectations to 
understand the drivers of the forecasts;
 > Comparison of growth rates against those achieved historically and external market data  
where available;
 > Benchmarking of growth and discount rates to comparator companies; and 
 > Determining whether the required disclosures have been provided; 
Accounting for the acquisition of Globe Wireless LLC
The acquisition of the assets of Globe Wireless LLC was completed for a  
consideration of $45.2m on 2 January 2014. 
The acquisition accounting for this transaction involves a number of judgements. 
There is a risk that the assumptions used in the purchase price allocation exercise  
are inappropriate, and hence the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities could  
be incorrect.
 > We gained an understanding of the transaction and its rationale through discussions with 
management and reading of the Asset Purchase Agreement.
 > We have engaged our internal valuation specialists to review the methodology and assumptions 
employed in the valuation of acquired intangible assets and liabilities, including determining whether 
the assumptions used for the purpose of valuing acquired intangible assets were consistent with what 
a market participant would use.
 > We obtained the underlying cash ﬂow forecasts and reviewed and challenged the assumptions used to 
assess the reasonableness of the forecasts.
 > We have reviewed the calculations and disclosures made in note 29 to the ﬁnancial statements to 
determine whether these are compliant with IFRS 3.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 85
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Capitalisation of development costs
The Group capitalises signiﬁcant internal labour costs, external costs and qualifying 
borrowing costs in respect of major ongoing capital projects including the Global 
Xpress programme, ‘Europasat’ and a number of IT systems.
There is a risk that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation in 
accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded on the 
balance sheet rather than expensed as incurred.
We have tested the operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the processes and procedures which 
govern the capitalisation of development costs. Furthermore, we have carried out substantive testing in 
relation to each element of capitalised costs including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the 
capitalised costs, understanding the nature of the costs capitalised and considering whether they are 
consistent with the originally approved budget.
In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations, veriﬁed the inputs to the 
calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments, tested the mechanical accuracy of the model, 
and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer 
being capitalised.
We have met with the project leaders for the most ﬁnancially signiﬁcant capital projects, which account 
for 87% of current year capital expenditure to corroborate the project status, the feasibility of completion 
and performance against budgets, including investigating any derivations from budget.
Accounting for the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement
The Group continues to hold a material balance of deferred revenue in respect  
of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement. Risks exist in relation to revenue and 
cost recognition for the agreement, as the accounting is reliant on management 
judgement, and there is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding the continued 
contractual relationship with LightSquared.
We have discussed the current commercial situation with respect to LightSquared with management and 
challenged the basis of their assumptions to ensure that the previously adopted accounting treatment 
continues to be appropriate, namely the continued deferral of $208.8m income in respect of 
consideration previously received from LightSquared until there is certainty around whether the 
Cooperation Agreement will be restarted and the related services will be provided.
In respect of the $38.8m of previously deferred Phase 1.5 income that was recognised in the Income 
Statement in Q1, we have considered management’s treatment of this against their previously established 
accounting policy. 
In respect of the $17.5m payment due from LightSquared on 31 December 2014 (as discussed in note 20 
to the ﬁnancial statements), we have assessed management’s conclusion that this should not be 
recognised until the cash is received against the guidance outlined in IAS 18.
We have conducted substantive testing of the associated revenue and costs recognised in respect of  
this arrangement.
Working capital provisions
The Group has implemented new systematic provisioning policies in respect of 
inventory and trade receivables, as discussed in note 4 to the ﬁnancial statements.
There is a risk that if the provisioning approach does not reﬂect the risk proﬁle within 
the underlying inventory and receivable populations, or if the provisioning policies  
are not correctly and consistently applied, these working capital balances could be 
materially misstated.
We have considered the appropriateness of the policy for the provision of doubtful receivables and 
inventory obsolescence by:
 > Critically assessing the new policy based on historic bad debt and inventory write-offs within  
the Group;
 > Understanding the design and implementation of controls in respect of conducting and reviewing  
the output of the general provision calculations;
 > Assessing the ﬁnancial position of those counterparties for which a speciﬁc receivable provision  
has been recognised in order to conclude on the reasonableness of these provisions;
 > Performing substantive testing to determine the validity of the underlying data within the  
general provision calculation;
 > Mechanically recalculating the provisions based on the terms of the policy; and
 > Meeting with Business Unit presidents to corroborate the Group’s expectation of sales of certain 
inventory lines and ﬁnancial health of Distribution Partners.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year in respect of uncertain tax positions. We have not highlighted 
this signiﬁcant audit risk given that there has been no signiﬁcant change to these positions (other than the resolution of one of these cases) and we 
have not directed signiﬁcant time and resource in this area in comparison to the previous year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the signiﬁcant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 63  
and 64.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the ﬁnancial statements as a whole, and not to express an 
opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the ﬁnancial statements is not modiﬁed with respect to any of the risks described above, 
and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
We deﬁne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the ﬁnancial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inﬂuenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 
the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $11.2m (2013: $16.0m). This was calculated before 31 December 2014 and was based on 5% of  
forecast adjusted proﬁt before tax (2013: 5%), which resulted in approximately 5% of actual adjusted proﬁt before tax (2013: 4%), and less than  
1% (2013: less than 1%) of equity. Pre-tax proﬁt has been adjusted to remove the impact of volatility arising from the LightSquared Cooperation 
agreement (discussed in note 4 to the ﬁnancial statements) and the one-off impact of the re-basing of the convertible bond (discussed in note  
19 to the ﬁnancial statements).
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $225,000 (2013: $320,000), as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
matters that we identiﬁed when assessing the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 86
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the  
risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at ﬁve 
operating locations, being the UK, Canada, Norway and two locations in the USA. All of these were subject to a full scope audit. These ﬁve locations 
represent the principal business locations and account for 100% of the Group’s net assets, revenue and proﬁt before tax. 
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identiﬁed above.  
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality  
and calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned. 
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to conﬁrm our conclusion that there  
were no signiﬁcant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated ﬁnancial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit 
of speciﬁed account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior 
member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most 
signiﬁcant of them at least once a year. In the current year we visited all of the ﬁnancially signiﬁcant components. For all components we include the 
component audit partner in our team brieﬁng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the ﬁndings from their work.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
 > the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with 10 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited ﬁnancial statements; or
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 > otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identiﬁed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
Directors’ Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We conﬁrm that we have  
not identiﬁed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 87
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and 
for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and 
tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that the 
ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we 
read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
STEPHEN GRIGGS FCA 
(SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
5 March 2015 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 88
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Revenues 1,285.9 1,261.9
Employee beneﬁt costs 7 (237.3) (244.8)
Network and satellite operations costs (205.7) (235.6)
Other operating costs (174.1) (162.9)
Own work capitalised 32.2 30.2
Total net operating costs (584.9) (613.1)
EBITDA 701.0 648.8
Depreciation and amortisation 6 (291.8) (232.0)
Loss on disposal of assets (1.2) (0.1)
Acquisition-related adjustments – 4.6
Impairment losses 6 (1.3) (185.2)
Share of proﬁt of associates 15 2.6 2.3
Operating proﬁt 409.3 238.4
Finance income 9 8.1 4.9
Finance expense 9 (75.1) (54.2)
Net ﬁnance expense 9 (67.0) (49.3)
Proﬁt before income tax 6 342.3 189.1
Income tax expense 10 (1.2) (86.5)
Proﬁt for the year 341.1 102.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders 340.5 102.0
Non-controlling interest 0.6 0.6
341.1 102.6
Earnings per share (expressed in $ per share)
– Basic 27 0.76 0.23
– Diluted 27 0.69 0.23
Adjusted earnings per share (expressed in $ per share)
– Basic 27 0.51 0.69
– Diluted 27 0.45 0.68
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Proﬁt for the year 341.1 102.6
Other comprehensive income
Amounts subsequently reclassiﬁed to the Income Statement:
 Gain on remeasurement of available-for-sale ﬁnancial asset 15 9.4 –
 Foreign exchange translation differences (0.6) (0.2)
 Net (losses)/gains on cash ﬂow hedges 26 (12.7) 14.7
 Tax credited/(charged) directly to equity 10 1.1 (3.6)
Amounts not subsequently reclassiﬁed to the Income Statement:
 Actuarial gains from pension and post-employment beneﬁts 28 3.4 2.7
 Tax charged directly to equity 10 (0.6) (0.6)
Total other comprehensive income – 13.0
Total comprehensive income 341.1 115.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders 340.5 115.0
Non-controlling interest 0.6 0.6
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 89
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 2,649.4 2,495.9
Intangible assets 14 799.6 781.1
Investments 15 10.8 32.7
Other receivables 17 24.4 21.6
Deferred income tax assets 22 26.7 21.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 32 – 3.6
3,510.9 3,356.2
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 16 204.4 144.3
Trade and other receivables 17 305.4 277.0
Inventories 18 28.4 27.7
Current income tax assets 22 8.5 11.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 32 1.4 9.2
Assets held for sale 33 32.9 42.8
581.0 512.6
Total assets 4,091.9 3,868.8
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 118.1 399.1
Trade and other payables 20 474.9 515.7
Provisions 21 3.4 4.3
Current income tax liabilities 22 81.3 100.2
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 32 5.0 0.5
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 33 – 19.0
682.7 1,038.8
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 1,987.0 1,558.0
Other payables 20 25.6 26.2
Provisions 21 27.2 23.9
Deferred income tax liabilities 22 186.3 174.1
2,226.1 1,782.2
Total liabilities 2,908.8 2,821.0
Net assets 1,183.1 1,047.8
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 24 0.3 0.3
Share premium 687.6 687.4
Equity reserve 56.9 56.9
Other reserves 66.7 62.9
Retained earnings 371.1 240.0
Equity attributable to shareholders 1,182.6 1,047.5
Non-controlling interest 0.5 0.3
Total equity 1,183.1 1,047.8
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group on pages 88 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2015 and were signed on 
its behalf by:
RUPERT PEARCE    TONY BATES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 90
(US$ in millions)
Ordinary 
share
capital
Share
premium
account
Equity
reserve
Share
option
reserve
Cash ﬂow 
hedge
reserve
(2)
Revaluation
reserve
(2)
Currency
reserve
Other
reserve
(1)
Retained
earnings
Non-
controlling
interest Total
Balance at 
 1 January 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 56.5 (2.5) 0.6 0.4 (11.5) 336.7 1.1 1,125.9
Share options charge – – – 5.0 – – – 3.5 1.6 – 10.1
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (202.4) (0.2) (202.6)
Transfer to liabilities
 directly associated
 with assets held
 for sale –– – – – –––– (1.2) (1.2)
Comprehensive Income: 
 Proﬁt for the period – – – – – – – – 102.0 0.6 102.6
 Other comprehensive  
  income – before tax – – – – 14.7 – (0.2) – 2.7 – 17.2
 Other comprehensive 
  income – tax – – – – (3.6) – – – (0.6) – (4.2)
Balance at  
 31 December 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 61.5 8.6 0.6 0.2 (8.0) 240.0 0.3 1,047.8
Share options charge –– – 1.0 – – – 5.6 0.6 – 7.2
Issue of share capital – 0.2 – – – –––– – 0.2
Dividends paid –– – – – –––(212.8) (0.3)(213.1)
Transfer to liabilities 
 directly associated 
 with assets held 
 for sale –– – – – –––– (0.1) (0.1)
Comprehensive Income: 
 Proﬁt for the period –– – – – –––340.5 0.6341.1
 Other comprehensive 
  income – before tax – – – – (12.7) 9.4 (0.6) – 3.4 – (0.5)
 Other comprehensive 
  income – tax – ––– 2.5 (1.4) – – (0.6) – 0.5
Balance at 
 31 December 2014 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 (1.6) 8.6 (0.4) (2.4) 371.1 0.5 1,183.1
(1) The other reserve relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust.
(2) Note 26.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 91
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 653.4 614.8
Interest received 0.9 2.6
Income taxes paid (9.5) (20.3)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 644.8 597.1
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (345.9) (516.1)
Additions to capitalised development costs and other intangibles (29.0) (35.1)
Own work capitalised (30.8) (29.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments 29 (46.2) (3.2)
Proceeds on disposal of assets 33 27.5 –
Net cash used in investing activities (424.4) (583.7)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 12 (212.6) (200.5)
Repayment of EIB Facility 19 (44.1) (44.0)
Drawdown of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 106.9 145.9
Repayment of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 (13.4) –
Redemption of Senior Notes due 2017 19 (882.8) –
Gross issuance proceeds of Senior Notes due 2022 19 991.9 –
Interest paid on borrowings (89.0) (100.6)
Arrangement costs of ﬁnancing 19 (13.8) (5.0)
Net proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares 24 0.2 –
Other ﬁnancing activities 0.3 (0.3)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (156.4) (204.5)
Foreign exchange adjustment (0.4) (0.2)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 63.6 (191.3)
Cash and cash equivalents
At the beginning of the year 140.8 332.1
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 63.6 (191.3)
At the end of the year 16 204.4 140.8
Comprising:
Cash at bank and in hand 16 40.7 50.4
Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 16 163.7 93.9
Bank overdrafts 16 – (3.5)
204.4 140.8
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 92
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Inmarsat plc (the ‘Company’ or, together with its subsidiaries, the ‘Group’) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England 
and Wales. The address of its registered ofﬁce is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Company’s ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT.L.
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 
2013 (the ‘consolidated ﬁnancial statements’) are set out below.
These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) adopted by the European 
Union (‘EU’) and therefore the Group’s ﬁnancial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) regulation and 
with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities, as described later in these 
accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ﬂow generation and is compliant with all covenants. As a consequence and 
despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.  
After considering current ﬁnancial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, Inmarsat plc 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic 
Report which encompasses the Chairman’s Review, the Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review on pages 1 to 49. The ﬁnancial position of 
the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43. In addition, notes 3, 31  
and 32 to the ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its ﬁnancial risk management objectives,  
its capital, details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit and liquidity risks.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the 
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best estimate of the 
amounts, events or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are disclosed in note 4.
In addition, the following Standards and Interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the ﬁrst time in the current ﬁnancial year and have 
been adopted by the Group with no signiﬁcant impact on its consolidated results or ﬁnancial position:
 > IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements; 
 > IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements;
 > IFRS 12 – Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities; 
 > IAS 27 (revised) – Separate Financial Statements (2011); 
 > IAS 28 (revised) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011); 
 > IAS 32 (amended) – Financial Instruments;
 > IAS 36 (amended) – Impairment of Assets;
 > IAS 39 (amended) – Financial Instruments; and 
 > IFRIC 21 – Levies (effective for ﬁnancial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014). 
At the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these ﬁnancial 
statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
 > IAS 19 (amended) – Employee Beneﬁts;
 > IFRS 10 (amended) – Consolidated Financial Statements;
 > IFRS 11 (amended) – Joint Arrangements; and
 > IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above new Standards and Interpretations on its results, balance sheet and cash ﬂows. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 93
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiary 
undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies, generally accompanying a 
shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible 
are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account from the 
date of establishment or acquisition of control. The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of 
disposal. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or a business, fair values reﬂecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiﬁable separable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Where the fair value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, exceeds the fair value of 
the identiﬁable separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill. Fees and similar 
incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are recorded in the Income Statement as incurred, in line with IFRS 3. Where there is a 
revision of the estimated fair value attributed to the assets or liabilities of an acquired subsidiary which occurs after the end of the measurement 
period, acquisition-related adjustments are recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value. Where the deferred consideration is contingent 
upon future trading performance, an estimate of the present value of the deferred consideration payable is made. The contingent deferred 
consideration is reassessed annually and any gain or loss on remeasurement is recorded in the Income Statement.
Investments in associates are initially recognised at cost. Subsequent to acquisition the carrying value of the Group’s investment in associates 
includes the Group’s share of proﬁt of associates, less dividends paid by the associate to the Group, and less any impairment losses. The income 
statement reﬂects the Group’s share of proﬁt after tax of the associate.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s equity therein. Non-controlling 
interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests’ share of changes 
in equity since the date of the original combination.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
a) Functional and presentation currency
The functional currency of the Company and all of the Group’s subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the US Dollar, as the 
majority of operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pound Sterling for 2014 for the Group’s Sterling operating expenditures was US$1.54/£1.00 (2013: 
US$1.57/£1.00).
b) Transactions and balances
Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated 
using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions. Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions 
denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the Income Statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been 
translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month. Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign 
exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 94
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and 
derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions. Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent measurement 
depends on the designation of the instrument. Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed as trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income, 
short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents. They are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable. In the Cash 
Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance 
Sheet. Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities are classiﬁed as borrowings, trade payables, other liabilities and accruals and stated at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and 
ﬁnancing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments for trading purposes. 
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments. Derivatives are initially 
recognised and measured at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash ﬂow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the 
hedging instrument. The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing 
is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on cash ﬂow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity. Where the forecast transaction results in a ﬁnancial 
asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassiﬁed to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability 
impacts income. If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are 
transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure. The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when 
the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement. However, where the Group has applied cash ﬂow hedge accounting 
for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is 
transferred to the Income Statement. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains 
in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the 
services are provided. Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned 
balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts. Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until 
such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires. The Group also enters into minimum spend contracts with customers, known as 
‘take-or-pay’ contracts, whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum amount of mobile satellite communications services over a ﬁxed period. 
Any unused portion of the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts (‘breakage’) is recognised in revenue in line with service provision when 
reasonable assurance as to the breakage amount exists, or otherwise when the contract expires. Mobile satellite communications services lease 
revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another 
systematic basis is deemed more appropriate. 
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, services contracts, other communications services and income from the 
sale of terminals and other communication equipment. Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of 
completion or straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement (see note 4(e)). Revenue from service contracts is 
recognised as the service is provided. Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership 
are transferred to the purchaser.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements. Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into 
separate units of accounting provided, 1) the deliverable has a standalone value to the customer if it is sold separately, and 2) the fair value of the 
item can be objectively and reliably determined. Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative 
fair values and the relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 95
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary beneﬁts are accrued in the year in which the 
associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination beneﬁts are payable whenever an employee’s employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these beneﬁts. The Group recognises termination beneﬁts when it has demonstrably committed to 
either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination beneﬁts, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary 
redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans and post-employment beneﬁts in respect of employees. The Group’s net 
obligations in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans and post-employment beneﬁts are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The calculations are performed by qualiﬁed actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the fair value of plan assets are 
immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group also operates a number of deﬁned contribution pension schemes. Pension costs for the deﬁned contribution schemes are charged to the 
Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees. Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of 
the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
CURRENT TAX
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the Income Statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in 
a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss, it is not 
accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the temporary 
deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research expenditure is expensed when incurred. Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation. 
Development costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they 
can be measured reliably. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 96
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Space segment assets
Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs, including ground infrastructure. Expenditure charged  
to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, 
external consultancy costs and direct internal costs. Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly 
attributable to the construction of an asset. Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation 
indices. Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and 
are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational. The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included 
within borrowings. These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed 
into service. Borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use 
(‘qualifying assets’) are added to the costs of those assets.
Assets in the course of construction
These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and 
placed into service. No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
Other ﬁxed assets
Other ﬁxed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of ﬁxed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful lives of the assets concerned. The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take 
account of any changes in circumstances. When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected 
rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Asset retirement obligations
The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the ﬁnancial statements in 
the period in which the liability is incurred. Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement 
cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset. 
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying 
an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reﬂected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash ﬂows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
Government grants
Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets. Government grants are deducted from the cost 
of the relevant assets to arrive at the carrying amount. The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced 
depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount. These are included in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots 
and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
Intangible assets arise from separate purchases and acquisitions as part of business combinations. In addition, internally-generated intangible assets 
are recognised only if all the following conditions are met:
 > an asset is created that can be identiﬁed;
 > it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic beneﬁts; and
 > the development cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been 
demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Intangible assets with a ﬁnite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are 
reviewed each ﬁnancial year. Intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life are reviewed annually for impairment.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 97
Impairment reviews
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, an impairment review is conducted. 
Intangible assets with an indeﬁnite life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment testing involves a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs 
to sell and value in use. Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) to which the asset belongs. Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which 
the asset could be disposed of. Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows obtainable as a result of the asset’s continued 
use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
CGUs are identiﬁed as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash ﬂows that are largely independent of other cash ﬂow 
streams. The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash ﬂows and, where a reliable and consistent basis exists, an 
appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The carrying 
amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has 
decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred. Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous 
period is not reversed.
Investments
Available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value with gains and losses recorded directly in equity. Investments in equity instruments that do 
not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost. Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Leases
Leases where a signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases by the lessee. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing 
usage, they are classiﬁed as held for sale. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition. Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction. They are recognised as held for sale 
at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the Balance Sheet. Any amortisation or depreciation ceases 
when an asset is classiﬁed as held for sale. Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are 
treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as held for sale are remeasured to fair value with the resulting gains or losses recorded through the 
revaluation reserve. These amounts are subsequently reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss at the time of sale.
Interest and ﬁnance costs
Interest on borrowings and other ﬁnancial liabilities is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
The ﬁnance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be 
payable on redemption.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined by the weighted average cost method) and net realisable value. Allowances for obsolescence 
are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions
Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-employment beneﬁts, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to 
transfer economic beneﬁts arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. Provisions are not recognised unless 
the outﬂow of economic beneﬁts to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 98
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost. Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised 
in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months 
after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds
Convertible Bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound ﬁnancial 
instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. At the 
date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt 
instrument. The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the 
liability. The total liability is recognised on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The equity component 
initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a 
whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bonds into equity of the Company. This conversion option is recognised and included 
directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured. Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their 
respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
On conversion, the liability is reclassiﬁed to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement. Where the convertible borrowing is 
redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and 
equity components. The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability 
element is recognised in the Income Statement.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’)
EBITDA is a non-GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is deﬁned for the purposes of our reporting as proﬁt before interest, 
taxation, depreciation and amortisation, loss on disposal of assets, acquisition-related adjustments, impairment losses and share of proﬁt of associates.
3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS
The Group’s operations and signiﬁcant debt ﬁnancing expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, 
foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to 
limit adverse effects on the ﬁnancial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to 
limit the impact of ﬂuctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of ﬂoating rate long-term borrowings.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a subcommittee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the ﬁnancial risk management 
policies applied by the Group. The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies 
to enable prompt identiﬁcation of ﬁnancial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken. The treasury department has a policy and procedures 
manual that sets out speciﬁc guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk (see note 32). The management of the 
Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
(A) MARKET RISK
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar. The vast majority of the Group’s long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the 
majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not 
subject to risks associated with ﬂuctuating foreign currency rates of exchange. However, approximately 24% (2013: 25%) of the Group’s operating 
costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling. The Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 6% and 46% of revenue and expenditure, 
respectively, being denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar. The Group’s exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid 
variability in future cash ﬂows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating 
expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31 December 2014 it is estimated that:
 > a hypothetical 1% inﬂation of the hedged US Dollar/Sterling exchange rate (US$1.54/£1.00 to US$1.56/£1.00) would have decreased the 2014 proﬁt 
before tax by approximately $1.1m (2013: $1.0m);
 > a hypothetical 1% deﬂation in the US Dollar/Sterling and a 1% deﬂation in the US Dollar/Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2014 would 
have decreased equity by $1.0m and $0.1m, respectively (2013: $1.6m and $0.1m, respectively), primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of 
derivative instruments designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 99
(ii) Price risk
The Group is not exposed to signiﬁcant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
(B) INTEREST RATE RISK
Given the Group has no signiﬁcant interest-bearing assets (except cash and cash equivalents and non-current other receivables), income and 
operating cash ﬂows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings 
issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk. The EIB Facility is at a variable rate whilst the Senior Notes due 2022, the 
Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Facilities are at ﬁxed rates.
As at 31 December 2014, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Group’s proﬁt after tax for the 
year would have been impacted by $0.3m (2013: $2.2m). This is primarily due to the Group’s exposure to movements on interest rates on its variable 
rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both 
derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For ﬂoating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the liability 
outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable 
basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
(C) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group. Financial instruments 
that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other 
receivables, accrued income and derivative ﬁnancial instruments. The credit risk on liquid funds (cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits) 
and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated ﬁnancial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is:
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Cash and cash equivalents 16 204.4 144.3
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 17 242.1 239.2
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 32 1.4 12.8
Total credit risk 447.9 396.3
The Group’s average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2014 (excluding the impact of LightSquared) was approximately 66 days (as at 
31 December 2013: 61 days). At 31 December 2014, $174.5m (2013: $140.5m) of trade receivables were not yet due for payment. No interest is charged 
on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment. Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms 
of the individual agreements. 
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and 
third-party collection processes for overdue accounts. The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing 
basis. As a result of acquiring the assets of Globe Wireless in 2014 and the alignment of provisioning policies for uncollectible trade receivables  
across the Group, and assessments of the general trading environment, the provision for uncollectible trade receivables increased to $18.4m as  
at 31 December 2014 (2013: $10.5m).
For 2014, one (2013: one) distribution partner comprised approximately 12.2% (2013: 15.2%) of the Group’s total revenues. This same customer 
comprised 20.3% (2013: 24.0%) of the Group’s trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2014. No other customer accounted for 10% or more  
of the Group’s revenue for 2014 or 2013, or for 10% of the Group’s accounts receivable as at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013.
The ageing proﬁle of overdue trade receivables net of provisions and revenue adjustments is:
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Between 1 and 30 days overdue 40.2 28.4
Between 31 and 120 days overdue 16.4 30.7
Over 120 days overdue 0.2 8.1
As at 31 December 17 56.8 67.2
(D) LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and ﬁnancial liabilities. Prudent liquidity risk management implies 
maintaining sufﬁcient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ﬂows and matching the maturity proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets  
and liabilities. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 100
3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is:
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Cash and cash equivalents 16 204.4 144.3
Available but undrawn borrowing facilities
(1)
19 990.3 906.5
Total available liquidity 1,194.7 1,050.8
(1) Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facilities (see note 19).
The Directors believe the Group’s liquidity position is more than sufﬁcient to meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue 
and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The more signiﬁcant estimates are discussed below:
(A) ESTIMATED IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL
The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in 
note 2. The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
During 2014, the Group reorganised its operating segments to reﬂect the way the business is being viewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) (see note 5). As a result of the reorganisation, the lowest levels for which separate cash ﬂows are identiﬁable are the operating segments.  
As required under IFRS, goodwill was allocated to the new CGUs using the relative value approach. Corporate assets are allocated to the CGUs where a 
reasonable and consistent allocation basis exists. Where corporate assets could not be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis they were 
included within the carrying amount of the total Group and compared to the recoverable amount of the total Group. 
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were as follows:
(US$ in millions) Allocated Goodwill
Pre-tax
Discount rate
Long-term growth 
rate
Maritime 215.5 9.1% 2.5%
Enterprise 54.8 9.1% 2.5%
Aviation 46.4 9.1% 2.5%
US Government 50.6 9.1% 2.5%
Global Government 54.8 9.1% 2.5%
Total Group 422.1 8.9% 2.5%
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s CGUs were Inmarsat Global, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip. The carrying value of goodwill allocated to the 
Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs was fully impaired. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat Global CGU was $407.4m.
Recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash ﬂow projections derived from ﬁnancial plans 
approved by management covering a ﬁve-year period. For certain signiﬁcant projects currently under development, a ﬁve-year period is not 
indicative of the long-term performance as operations may not have reached maturity. For these projects, the Group extends the plan for an 
additional ﬁve-year period. They reﬂect management’s expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating 
cash ﬂows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance. Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period have been 
extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates, as outlined below.
Growth rates
A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash ﬂows into perpetuity. The growth rate has been determined using long-term 
industry growth rates and management’s conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount rates
The discount rates reﬂect the time value of money and are derived from the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated 
with the CGUs. The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in 
exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
Goodwill impairment
No impairment was identiﬁed in respect of the goodwill allocated to the CGUs in 2014. In 2013, an impairment charge of $144.5m was recognised in 
respect to goodwill. This related to the impairment of goodwill originally recognised by the Group on the acquisition of the Stratos, Segovia and Ship 
Equip businesses (impairment of $76.8m, $34.2m and $33.5m, respectively). 
In addition, during 2013, $9.4m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to a correction made to depreciation in 2013 relating to 
prior periods in the Stratos CGU. This resulted in the carrying value of the Stratos CGU being increased above the estimated recoverable amount of 
the Stratos CGU at 31 December 2012 and therefore a further impairment charge was recognised based on the revised carrying amount of the CGU at 
31 December 2012. In addition, a further $5.9m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to the Stratos CGU following an impairment 
review conducted prior to reclassiﬁcation of certain assets as held for sale during 2013 (see note 33). 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 101
(B) OTHER SIGNIFICANT IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
During 2014, impairment losses related to property plant and equipment, intangible assets and other were $0.9m, $0.3m, and $0.1m, respectively.
Following the 2013 goodwill impairment review, $17.8m of impairment losses were recognised in relation to customer relationships attributed  
to the Segovia CGU. This was to ensure that the estimated value in use of the CGU was reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statement for the year ended  
31 December 2013.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2013, tangible ﬁxed assets were impaired by $20.5m and other intangible assets (excluding goodwill) were 
impaired by $1.1m, following an adjustment to the carrying value of the retail energy assets being disposed of in the RigNet transaction to write them 
down to their fair value less costs to sell prior to their classiﬁcation as held for sale assets. 
(C) PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ASSUMPTIONS
The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-employment beneﬁts liabilities was 3.74% (2013: 4.72%) (see note 28).
 
(D) INCOME TAX
The calculation of the Group’s current and deferred tax balances, including potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation 
and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be ﬁnally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax 
authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve. The amounts recognised or 
disclosed are derived from the Group’s best estimation and judgement. However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means 
eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Group’s results and cash ﬂows. In addition, a contingent 
liability has been disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2014 in respect of arrangements which were entered into in prior periods (see note 35).
(E) REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION AGREEMENT
In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra (Canada) Inc. and LightSquared Inc. (together ‘LightSquared’) entered into a 
Cooperation Agreement for the efﬁcient use of L-band spectrum over North America. The Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and 
designed to enable and support the deployment of an ATC network by LightSquared in North America. To date total payments of $578.0m have been 
received under the Cooperation Agreement, including $31.6m in 2014 (2013: $nil). The Group has, thus far, recognised $369.2m of revenue and 
$23.4m of operating costs under all phases of the agreement. For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group recognised $75.4m of revenue and 
$0.2m of operating costs, in respect of all phases (year ended 31 December 2013: $12.3m and $3.3m, respectively).
On 31 March 2014, LightSquared elected to restart Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement and in connection with this election notice a payment  
of $5.0m was received and recognised as revenue. As a result of the election, LightSquared has recommenced quarterly payments to Inmarsat.  
On 2 January 2015, Inmarsat issued a default notice to LightSquared indicating the $17.5m payment due 31 December 2014 had not been received in 
accordance with the quarterly payment schedule. As at 31 December 2014, no revenue has been recognised in respect of the amount owing from 
LightSquared, as the Group’s policy is to not recognise revenue when there is signiﬁcant uncertainty of receiving payment. 
In connection with the Group’s accounting for different phases of the Cooperation Agreement, the accounting method considered most appropriate 
to the individual phase, including the percentage of completion method and straight-line method in the case of both revenues and costs has been 
used. Where the percentage of completion method was used, we have had to measure the number of man-hours undertaken against an estimate of 
the total man-hours required to complete the phase or activity. Similarly, we have measured costs incurred against an estimate of the total costs 
required to complete the phase or activity. The key area of estimation uncertainty relates to the Directors’ estimates of the total time/costs that will 
be incurred and the Directors’ estimate of the percentage of completion of the time and costs that the Group has incurred.
(F) PROVISION FOR UNCOLLECTABLE TRADE RECEIVABLES
As a result of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the Group estimates its required provision for uncollectable trade receivables at the end of 
each period. The estimate is based on the Group’s judgement using the latest information available; the Group’s provision for uncollectable trade 
receivables at 31 December 2014 is $18.7m (2013: $10.5m).
(G) ALLOWANCE FOR OBSOLESCENCE OF INVENTORIES
The Group maintains allowances for obsolescence against old or slow-moving inventories. The estimate is based on the Group’s judgement using the 
latest information available; the Group’s allowance for obsolescence of inventories at 31 December 2014 is $15.1m (2013: $3.5m).
(H) CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED BORROWING COSTS
The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are:
 > whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRSs have been met;
 > whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of costs should cease and depreciation should commence; and
 > whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 102
5. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group revised its operating segments to reﬂect the way the business is being viewed by the CODM.  
The revised operating segments are based on a vertical market presentation and are now aligned to ﬁve market-facing Business Units, being:
 > Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services; 
 > Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services; 
 > Aviation, focusing on commercial aviation services;
 > US Government, focusing on US civil and military government services; and
 > Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services.
These ﬁve Business Units are supported by ‘Central Services’ which includes satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate 
administrative costs, and all other income that is not directly attributable to the individual Business Units. The Group has aggregated the US 
Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment, as the segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS. 
Therefore, the Group’s reportable segments are Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, Government and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2. Segment proﬁt represents 
the proﬁt earned by each segment without allocation of central costs, investment revenue, ﬁnance costs and income tax expense.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS:
The tables below represent segmental information based on the revised basis with 2013 restated accordingly.
2014
(US$ in millions) Maritime
(1)
Government Enterprise Aviation Central Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 27.2 1,210.5
LightSquared –––– 75.4 75.4
Total revenue 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 102.6 1,285.9
Net operating costs (145.2) (103.5) (64.6) (13.9) (257.7) (584.9)
EBITDA 450.4 216.4 102.1 87.2 (155.1) 701.0
Depreciation and amortisation (35.6) (9.3) (0.2) (2.1) (244.6) (291.8)
Impairment losses –––– (1.3) (1.3)
Other –––– 1.4 1.4
Operating result 414.8 207.1 101.9 85.1 (399.6) 409.3
Net ﬁnance expense (67.0)
Proﬁt before income tax 342.3
Income tax expense (1.2)
Proﬁt for the year 341.1
Capital expenditure 35.3 5.6 3.3 48.3 332.2 424.7
Depreciation 24.5 2.8 0.2 2.0 190.6 220.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 11.1 6.5 – 0.1 54.0 71.7
(1) Includes Globe Wireless from 1 January 2014 (see note 29).
2013 (restated)
(US$ in millions) Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation Central Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 21.5 1,249.6
LightSquared –––– 12.3 12.3
Total revenue 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 33.8 1,261.9
Net operating costs (108.3) (140.4) (106.0) (6.2) (252.2) (613.1)
EBITDA 416.5 267.9 115.6 67.2 (218.4) 648.8
Depreciation and amortisation (25.5) (10.6) (3.6) (2.1) (190.2) (232.0)
Impairment losses
(1)
–––– (185.2) (185.2)
Other –––– 6.8 6.8
Operating result 391.0 257.3 112.0 65.1 (587.0) 238.4
Net ﬁnance expense (49.3)
Proﬁt before income tax 189.1
Income tax expense (86.5)
Proﬁt for the year 102.6
Capital expenditure 31.3 4.9 6.5 2.5 611.4 656.6
Depreciation 19.3 3.0 3.4 2.0 137.5 165.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 6.2 7.6 0.2 0.1 52.7 66.8
(1)  Impairment losses in 2013 relate primarily to goodwill and customer relationship intangibles of the former Inmarsat Solutions segment and the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs and have 
been allocated entirely to the Central Services reporting segment for comparative purposes.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 103
GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS:
The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas shown in the table below. The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom, with its head 
ofﬁce and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer. For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who 
receives the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2014 2013
(US$ in millions) Revenue
Non-current 
 segment
assets
(1)
Revenue
Non-current 
 segment
assets
(1)
United Kingdom 82.4 799.2 94.4 774.5
Rest of Europe 476.9 619.0 424.3 266.1
North America 391.2 755.8 438.5 1,006.1
Asia and Paciﬁc 282.7 68.9 254.7 32.9
Rest of the world 52.7 0.1 50.0 0.1
Unallocated
(2)
– 1,267.9 –1,272.9
1,285.9 3,510.9 1,261.9 3,352.6
(1) In line with IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’, non-current segment assets exclude derivative ﬁnancial instruments.
(2) Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
6. PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX
Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group. Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network 
service contracts, operating lease rentals and services. A further breakdown of employee beneﬁt costs is given in note 7.
Proﬁt before income tax is stated after charging the following items:
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 220.1 165.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 71.7 66.8
Impairment of goodwill 4 – 144.5
Impairment of customer relationships 14 – 18.1
Impairment of software 14 0.3 0.8
Impairment of services, equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 13 0.4 20.5
Impairment of non-current other receivables 0.6 1.3
Operating lease rentals
 Land and buildings 20.3 20.2
 Services equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 1.7 1.5
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 59.2 67.0
Research and development costs expensed 20.0 14.4
The total remuneration paid to the Group’s Auditor and other member ﬁrms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited is analysed below:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Audit fees:
 Audit of the Parent Company 0.2 0.2
 Audit of subsidiaries 1.2 1.1
1.4 1.3
Audit-related fees:
 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3
Total audit and audit-related fees 1.6 1.6
Fees for other services:
 Tax compliance services – 0.2
 Tax advisory services 0.9 0.7
 Other services
(1)
0.1 0.4
Total fees for other services 1.0 1.3
Total Auditor’s remuneration 2.6 2.9
(1) Other services in 2014 relate to a corporate ﬁnancing transaction, while services in 2013 relate to system implementation costs which have subsequently been capitalised on the Balance Sheet.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had contractually committed to $nil of services to be completed in the 2015 ﬁnancial year (31 December 2013: 
$0.2m for services to be completed in the 2014 ﬁnancial year). INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 104
7. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS (INCLUDING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS)
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Wages and salaries 200.8 201.1
Social security costs 16.5 16.6
Share options charge (including employers’ National Insurance contribution) 11.3 15.7
Deﬁned contribution pension plan costs 7.0 7.6
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan costs
(1)
28 1.4 3.6
Post-employment beneﬁts costs
(1)
28 0.3 0.2
Total employee beneﬁt costs 237.3 244.8
(1) Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan costs and post-employment beneﬁts costs include the service cost and gain on curtailment in 2014 (see note 28).
EMPLOYEE NUMBERS
The average monthly number of people (including the Executive Directors) employed during the year by category of employment:
2014 2013
By activity:
Operations 784 767
Sales and marketing 300 323
Development and engineering 156 163
Administration 352 369
1,592 1,622
By segment:
Maritime 356 201
Government 181 188
Enterprise 70 242
Aviation 28 14
Central Services 957 977
1,592 1,622
8. EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Group’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors’ are the key management personnel of the business. Details of the total amounts earned during 
the year are as follows:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Short-term employee beneﬁts 6.0 4.8
Company contributions to deﬁned contribution pension schemes
(1)
0.2 0.2
Share-based payments
(2)
6.7 6.3
12.9 11.3
(1) Includes the value of cash allowances taken by two Executive Directors in lieu of pension contributions.
(2) Includes employers National Insurance or other social security contributions.
On 2 June 2014, Tony Bates joined the Company as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and was appointed as an Executive Director, effective the same date. 
Rick Medlock resigned from his position as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and as an Executive Director of Inmarsat plc on 3 January 2014. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration contains full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration on pages 73 and 74. As at 31 December 2014, none of the 
Directors (2013: two) were members of the Group’s deﬁned contribution pension plan. One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan (2013: one).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 105
9. NET FINANCE EXPENSE
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 84.3 84.9
Interest on Convertible Bonds (18.3) 29.5
Interest rate swaps – 8.0
Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 1.4 1.8
Amortisation of debt issue costs 16.0 8.2
Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 0.5 –
Redemption premium on Senior Notes due 2017 32.8 –
Other interest 0.3 0.9
Finance expense 117.0 133.3
Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets (41.9) (79.1)
Total ﬁnance expense 75.1 54.2
Bank interest receivable and other interest 1.5 3.3
Net amortisation of premium on Senior Notes due 2017 6.0 1.5
Pension and post-employment liability ﬁnance income 0.6 0.1
Total ﬁnance income 8.1 4.9
Net ﬁnance expense 67.0 49.3
During 2014, a non-recurring credit of $48.5m was recognised to interest expense on the Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the 
expected maturity date, due to the expiration of the bond holder’s redemption option in November 2014.
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such 
assets. The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 3.79% (2013: 7.51%).
10. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense recognised in the Income Statement:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Current tax expense:
Current year (41.0) (30.0)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 45.9 (46.7)
Total current tax credit/(expense) 4.9 (76.7)
Deferred tax expense:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (18.1) (29.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 9.3 (3.1)
Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 2.7 23.2
Total deferred tax expense (6.1) (9.8)
Total income tax expense (1.2) (86.5)
Of the total $55.2m adjustment in respect of prior periods recognised in 2014, $53.1m relates to the release of a provision for potential tax liabilities which had been recognised in 2013 in relation  
to the Inmarsat-4 satellites. This provision is being released in 2014 as the HMRC review into this matter has now been concluded. 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Proﬁt before tax 342.3 189.1
Income tax at 21.50% (2013: 23.25%) (73.6) (44.0)
Differences in overseas tax rates 2.4 0.6
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 55.2 (49.8)
Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 2.7 23.2
Impact of prior year losses not previously recognised 6.9 4.3
Impact of prior year temporary differences recognised (excluding losses) 8.7 –
Impact of current year losses not recognised (1.7) (2.0)
Non-deductible impact of goodwill impairment – (17.0)
Other non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income (1.8) (1.8)
Total income tax expense (1.2) (86.5) INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 106
10. INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED
Tax credited directly to equity:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Current tax credit on share options 0.4 –
Deferred tax credit on share options 0.2 1.6
Total tax credited directly to equity 0.6 1.6
Tax credited/(charged) directly to other comprehensive income:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Current tax credit on cash ﬂow hedges 0.2 –
Deferred tax credit/(charge) relating to gains on cash ﬂow hedges 2.3 (3.6)
Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-employment beneﬁts (0.6) (0.6)
Deferred tax charge on remeasurement of available for sale ﬁnancial asset (1.4) –
Total tax credited/(charged) directly to other comprehensive income 0.5 (4.2)
11. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES/(GAINS)
(US$ in millions) Note 2014 2013
Pension and post-retirement liability 28 (0.8) (0.3)
Other operating costs 2.7 (1.1)
Total foreign exchange losses/(gains) 1.9 (1.4)
12. DIVIDENDS
During 2014, the 2014 interim dividend of $83.7m (18.68 cents per ordinary share) and the 2013 ﬁnal dividend of $129.1m (28.82 cents per ordinary 
share) were paid to the Company’s shareholders. During 2013, the 2013 interim dividend of $79.6m (17.79 cents per ordinary share) and the 2012 ﬁnal 
dividend of $122.8m (27.45 cents per ordinary share) were paid to the Company’s shareholders.
A ﬁnal dividend for the 2014 ﬁnancial year of 30.26 cents per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of $135.6m, is to be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015. In accordance with IAS 10, these ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect this ﬁnal dividend payable.
(US$ in cents) 2014 2013
Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 18.68 17.79
Final dividend per ordinary share 30.26 28.82
Total dividend per ordinary share 48.94 46.61
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 107
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(US$ in millions)
Freehold
land and
buildings
Services,
equipment,
ﬁxtures
and ﬁttings
Space
segment
Assets in the
course of
construction Total
Cost:
1 January 2013 16.4 286.6 2,075.8 1,081.3 3,460.1
Additions 1.7 21.3 157.9 436.0 616.9
Acquisitions – 0.4 – – 0.4
Disposals – (2.7) (142.7) – (145.4)
Transfers from assets in the course of construction – 2.4 288.5 (290.9) –
Transferred to assets held for sale (3.0) (83.7) (4.4) – (91.1)
31 December 2013 15.1 224.3 2,375.1 1,226.4 3,840.9
Additions 1.7 18.6 85.3 266.8 372.4
Acquisitions 0.1 2.7 – 0.4 3.2
Disposals – (3.5) (141.4) – (144.9)
Transfers from assets in the course of construction – – 413.7 (413.7) –
31 December 2014 16.9 242.1 2,732.7 1,079.9 4,071.6
Accumulated depreciation:
1 January 2013 (6.6) (218.1) (1,153.8) – (1,378.5)
Charge for the year (1.5) (17.1) (146.6) – (165.2)
Impairment losses
(1)
– (20.5) – – (20.5)
Disposals – 2.3 142.4 – 144.7
Transferred to assets held for sale 1.0 71.9 1.6 – 74.5
31 December 2013 (7.1) (181.5) (1,156.4) – (1,345.0)
Charge for the year (1.5) (26.2) (192.4) – (220.1)
Impairment losses –(0.4) – – (0.4)
Disposals – 2.8 140.5 – 143.3
31 December 2014 (8.6) (205.3) (1,208.3) – (1,422.2)
Net book amount at 31 December 2013 8.0 42.8 1,218.7 1,226.4 2,495.9
Net book amount at 31 December 2014 8.3 36.8 1,524.4 1,079.9 2,649.4
(1) Relates to impairment of certain assets prior to their classiﬁcation as held for sale.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows:
Space segment assets:
 Satellites 13–15 years
 Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 5–12 years
Fixtures and ﬁttings, and services-related equipment 3–15 years
Buildings 20 years
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group was carrying freehold land and buildings with a net book value of $nil. Had the freehold land and buildings 
been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2014 would have been $12.5m (2013: $14.9m). Market valuation is based on 
the Directors’ best estimates.
In 2014 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets. The grants have been deducted from 
the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount. Government grants received in 2014 were $1.7m (2013: $2.7m). INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 108
14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(US$ in millions) Goodwill Trademarks Software
Patents and 
intellectual 
property
Terminal
development
and network
access costs
Customer
relationships
Spectrum
rights,
orbital
slots and
licences Total
Cost:
1 January 2013 765.4 49.9 194.3 14.7 130.1 386.8 16.8 1,558.0
Additions – – 27.8 – 7.0 – 4.9 39.7
Acquisitions 1.2 – – – – 1.2 – 2.4
Transferred to assets
 held for sale – – – – – – (3.1) (3.1)
31 December 2013 766.6 49.9 222.1 14.7 137.1 388.0 18.6 1,597.0
Additions –– 20.0 – 22.2 – 10.1 52.3
Acquisitions 14.7 0.6 7.0 – – 16.0 – 38.3
Disposals – (29.6) – – – (0.2) (1.8) (31.6)
31 December 2014 781.3 20.9 249.1 14.7 159.3 403.8 26.9 1,656.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses:
1 January 2013 (214.7) (38.3) (121.7) (14.7) (64.9) (127.4) (5.8) (587.5)
Charge for the year – (1.0) (19.7) – (12.8) (31.0) (2.3) (66.8)
Impairment losses (144.5) – (0.8) – – (18.1) – (163.4)
Transferred to assets
 held for sale – – – – – – 1.8 1.8
31 December 2013 (359.2) (39.3) (142.2) (14.7) (77.7) (176.5) (6.3) (815.9)
Charge for the year – (1.3) (24.7) – (10.6) (30.7) (4.4) (71.7)
Disposals – 29.5 – – – 0.2 1.8 31.5
Impairment losses –––– – – (0.3) (0.3)
31 December 2014 (359.2) (11.1) (166.9) (14.7) (88.3) (207.0) (9.2) (856.4)
Net book amount at 
 31 December 2013 407.4 10.6 79.9 – 59.4 211.5 12.3 781.1
Net book amount at 
 31 December 2014 422.1 9.8 82.2 – 71.0 196.8 17.7 799.6
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on an acquisition over the fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated 
to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing. During 2013, the Group recorded impairment charges of $144.5m in respect of goodwill (see note 4(a)).
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between 7 and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Group’s BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is 
being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 5 years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs 
as intangible assets. Costs directly relating to the Group’s BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the 
services which is 5 to 10 years. Amortisation of costs directly relating to GX network access will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of beneﬁt of between 12 and 14 years, 
using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of 5 years.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Group’s Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to 
determine whether it has a ﬁnite or indeﬁnite useful life. Amortisation of the GX programme ﬁnite life assets will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites 
are operational. Indeﬁnite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 109
15. INVESTMENTS
(US$ in millions) 
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Investments held at cost – 23.5
Interest in associates 10.8 9.2
Total investments 10.8 32.7
On 7 November 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into binding agreements to sell its 19% holding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM Inc. for total 
proceeds of $32.9m. The investment is classiﬁed as an available for sale ﬁnancial asset. As at 31 December 2014, the Group reclassiﬁed the investment in 
SkyWave to assets held for sale and remeasured the asset to fair market value, recognising an after-tax gain of $8.0m in other comprehensive income.
Interest in associates represents the Group’s various investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the 
equity method of accounting. Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates’ assets, 
liabilities, revenues and proﬁts have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2014 total $1.1m (2013: $1.2m). The Group’s aggregate share of its 
associates’ proﬁts for the year is $2.6m (2013: $2.3m) and has been recognised in the Income Statement.
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings 
in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Cash at bank and in hand 40.7 50.4
Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 163.7 93.9
Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 144.3
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement:
(US$ in millions) Note
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 144.3
Bank overdrafts 19 – (3.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents 204.4 140.8
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
(restated)
Current:
Trade receivables 220.4 207.7
Other receivables 7.3 20.5
Prepayments and accrued income 77.7 48.8
Total trade and other receivables 305.4 277.0
Non-current:
Prepayments and accrued income 3.9 2.3
Pension asset 18.0 14.6
Other receivables 2.5 4.7
Total other receivables 24.4 21.6
During 2014, the Group changed the classiﬁcation of certain accrued income accounts, which are now presented within trade receivables. As a result 
of this change in presentation, $12.8m of prepayments and accrued income were reclassiﬁed to trade receivables as at 31 December 2013. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 110
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
The Group’s trade and other receivables are stated after provisions for uncollectable trade receivables. Movements in the provisions during the year 
were as follows:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
1 January 10.5 12.2
Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 9.0 0.8
Utilised in the year (0.5) (2.0)
Provision released in the year (0.3) (0.5)
As at 31 December
(1)
18.7 10.5
(1)  The maturity of the Group’s provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31 December 2014 is $4.2m between 1 and 30 days overdue, $7.8m between 31 and 120 days 
overdue and $6.7m over 120 days overdue (2013: $0.4m current, $1.1m between 1 and 30 days, $2.1m between 31 and 121 days and $6.9m over 120 days).
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
18. INVENTORIES
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Finished goods 28.0 27.7
Work in progress 0.4 –
Total inventories 28.4 27.7
The Group’s inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence. Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
1 January 3.5 3.3
Charged to the allowance in respect of the current year 12.3 0.2
Provision released in the year (0.7) –
As at 31 December 15.1 3.5
The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 111
19. BORROWINGS
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Gross
amount
Deferred 
ﬁnance
cost
(1)
Net balance
Gross
amount
Deferred 
ﬁnance
cost
(1)
Net balance
Current:
Bank overdrafts ––– 3.5 – 3.5
Deferred satellite payments
(2)
5.9 – 5.9 10.6 – 10.6
EIB Facility
(3)
44.1 – 44.1 44.1 – 44.1
Ex-Im Bank Facilities
(4) (5)
68.1 – 68.1 13.3 – 13.3
Convertible Bonds
(6)
––– 325.6 (1.0) 324.6
– Accretion of principal ––– 3.0 – 3.0
Total current borrowings 118.1 – 118.1 400.1 (1.0) 399.1
Non-current:
Deferred satellite payments
(2)
17.4 – 17.4 23.6 – 23.6
Senior Notes due 2017
(7)
––– 850.0 (8.7) 841.3
– Net issuance premium ––– 5.9 – 5.9
Senior Notes due 2022
(8)
1,000.0 (8.7) 991.3 –––
– Net issuance discount (7.6) – (7.6) –––
EIB Facility
(3)
132.1 (0.6) 131.5 176.2 (1.1) 175.1
Ex-Im Bank Facilities
(4) (5)
568.9 (18.9) 550.0 530.2 (18.1) 512.1
Convertible Bonds
(6)
301.3 – 301.3 –––
– Accretion of principal 3.1 – 3.1 –––
Total non-current borrowings 2,015.2 (28.2) 1,987.0 1,585.9 (27.9) 1,558.0
Total borrowings
(9)
2,133.3 (28.2) 2,105.1 1,986.0 (28.9) 1,957.1
(1) Borrowings are recorded net of unamortised deferred ﬁnance costs in the Balance Sheet.
(2) Deferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.  
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value using a weighted average rate of 4.7% (2013: 5.1%).
(3) In 2010, the Group signed an 8-year facility agreement from the European Investment Bank (the ‘EIB Facility’). No additional funding is available under this facility, which matures on  
30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments. Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in January, April, July, and October each year.
(4) In 2011, the Group signed a 12.5-year $700.0m direct ﬁnancing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States (the ‘Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility’). The facility has a total  
availability period of 4 years and will then be repayable in equal instalments over a further 8.5 years. Drawings under the facility incur interest at a ﬁxed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.  
As at 31 December 2014, total drawings of $569.3m have been made under the facility.
(5) In November 2014, the Group signed a 7-year $185.9m direct ﬁnancing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States (the ‘Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility’). The facility has a total 
availability period of 2 years and will then be repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 5 years. Drawings under the facility incur interest at a ﬁxed rate of 1.96% for the life of the 
loan. As at 31 December 2014, total drawings of $67.7m have been made under the facility.
(6) In 2007, the Group issued $287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 2017 (the ‘Convertible Bonds’). The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have  
a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%. The total number of common shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 22.7 million shares and the 
conversion price as at 31 December 2014 is $12.31. The conversion price is subject to periodic adjustment if dividends paid on ordinary shares exceed deﬁned levels. The bonds will mature in 
November 2017 and can be settled in cash or converted to common shares at the prevailing conversion price at that time. At 31 December 2013, the Convertible Bonds were recorded as a current 
liability due to the possibility of redemption in November 2014. However, only bonds with a total accreted principal amount of $0.9m were redeemed before expiration of the redemption option. 
(7) On 4 June 2014, the Group redeemed the entire principal amount of $850.0m outstanding under the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2017 (the ‘Senior Notes due 2017’). A redemption premium of 
$32.8m was recognised and the remaining unamortised debt issue costs in relation to the Notes of $7.8m were written-off to ﬁnance expense. In addition, at redemption the unamortised net 
premium on the Senior Notes due 2017 was written-off to the Income Statement resulting in a credit to ﬁnance income of $5.3m.
(8) On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ‘Senior Notes due 2022’). The aggregate gross proceeds were $991.9m, net of 
$8.1m issuance discount. In addition, capitalised issuance costs of $9.2m were recorded in relation to the Senior Notes due 2022.
(9) In 2011, the Group signed a 5-year $750.0m revolving credit facility (the ‘Senior Credit Facility’) with a group of commercial banks as lenders. Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate 
equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 2.50% determined by reference to the Group’s ratio of net debt to EBITDA. As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, there were 
no drawings on the Senior Credit Facility. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 112
19. BORROWINGS CONTINUED
Convertible bonds
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were initially split into a liability component of $224.3m and an equity component 
of $56.9m. The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group as follows:
(US$ in millions)
Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7
Cost of issue (6.5)
Net proceeds 281.2
Equity component (56.9)
Liability component at date of issue 224.3
Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2013 129.8
Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2013 4.1
Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 2013 (30.6)
Liability component at 31 December 2013 327.6
Interest charged (18.3)
Redemption of convertible bonds (0.9)
Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.0
Coupon interest (5.0)
Liability component at 31 December 2014 304.4
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component. The total interest charge is 
split between the coupon interest charge of $5.0m and accreted interest of $25.2m. The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November 
each year until maturity. Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity. During 2014, a non-recurring 
credit of $48.5m was recognised against interest charged on the Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date, due to 
the expiration of the bond holder’s redemption option in November 2014. 
Maturity of borrowings
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Between one and two years 130.7 103.6
Between two and ﬁve years 688.8 1,173.5
After ﬁve years 1,167.5 280.9
1,987.0 1,558.0
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2022 and Convertible Bonds to approximate to their fair 
value (see note 32). The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
Effective interest rate % 2014 2013
Bank overdrafts 1.25 1.50
EIB Facility 1.57 1.52
Senior Notes due 2017 – 7.375
Senior Notes due 2022 4.875 –
Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.11 3.11
Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 1.96 –
Deferred satellite payments 4.70 5.10
Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 113
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Current:
Trade payables 136.5 132.4
Deferred consideration 2.0 3.1
Other taxation and social security payables 5.1 5.2
Other creditors 3.3 2.5
Accruals and deferred income
(1)
328.0 372.5
Total trade and other payables 474.9 515.7
Non-current:
Deferred consideration 0.4 0.7
Other payables 25.2 25.5
Total other payables 25.6 26.2
 (1)  Includes $208.8m (2013: $252.6m) of deferred income relating to payments received from LightSquared. During 2014, $43.8m was released to the Income Statement to reﬂect revenue 
earned, based on the percentage of completion method (2013: $12.3m).
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
21. PROVISIONS
Movements in the current portion of the Group’s provisions were as follows:
(US$ in millions)
Asset
retirement
obligations
Other
provisions Total
Current:
As at 1 January 2013 0.1 5.4 5.5
Charged in respect of current year –4.3 4.3
Utilised in current year (0.2) (5.9) (6.1)
Transferred from non-current liabilities 0.6 – 0.6
As at 31 December 2013 0.5 3.8 4.3
Charged in respect of current year –4.3 4.3
Utilised in current year – (5.0) (5.0)
Revision in estimated timing of settlement (0.2) – (0.2)
As at 31 December 2014 0.3 3.1 3.4
The Group’s other provisions relate primarily to restructuring charges. The associated cash ﬂows in respect of the restructuring provisions 
outstanding at 31 December 2014 are expected to occur within one year.  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 114
21. PROVISIONS CONTINUED
Movements in the long-term portion of the Group’s provisions were as follows:
(US$ in millions)
Post-
employment
beneﬁts Pension
Asset
retirement
obligations
Other
provisions Total
Non-current:
As at 1 January 2013 16.5 4.2 4.1 0.6 25.4
Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.3 2.4 0.2 1.2 5.1
Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect  
 of current year (0.1) (2.6) – – (2.7)
Contributions paid – (2.2) – – (2.2)
Utilised in current year (0.3) (0.7) – (0.2) (1.2)
Transferred to liabilities associated with assets held for sale – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Net movement in pension asset – 2.6 – – 2.6
Transferred to current liabilities – – (0.6) – (0.6)
As at 31 December 2013 17.4 3.7 1.2 1.6 23.9
Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year –1.1 0.1 4.2 5.4
Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect  
 of current year 1.3 (4.7) – – (3.4)
Contributions paid –(1.7) – – (1.7)
Utilised in current year (0.3) (0.2) – (0.1) (0.6)
Net movement in pension asset –3.4 – – 3.4
Revision in estimated timing of settlement –– 0.2– 0.2
As at 31 December 2014 18.4 1.6 1.5 5.7 27.2
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, the Group’s largest deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan was in an asset position and therefore included in non-current 
other receivables (see note 17).
Asset retirement obligations relate to the expected costs of removing equipment from leased premises.
Included in long-term other provisions are charges relating to legal and other disputes, including notiﬁcations of possible claims. The Group’s Directors  
have established provisions after taking into account the facts of each case.
22. CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The current income tax asset of $8.5m and current income tax liability of $81.3m (2013: $11.6m and $100.2m, respectively), represent the income  
tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) for the year are shown below:
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
Property, plant and equipment and  
 intangible assets (10.5) 166.2 155.7 (0.3) 144.0 143.7
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost  
 of qualifying assets – 37.7 37.7 – 30.5 30.5
Other (7.2) 1.2 (6.0) (7.2) 4.0 (3.2)
Pension and post-employment beneﬁts (1.1) 0.8 (0.3) (1.1) 0.3 (0.8)
Share options (6.9) – (6.9) (6.6) – (6.6)
Loss carry forwards (20.6) – (20.6) (10.8) – (10.8)
Net deferred income tax liabilities (46.3) 205.9 159.6 (26.0) 178.8 152.8
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 115
The value of deferred income tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred income tax balance is shown below:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Deferred income tax assets (26.7) (21.3)
Deferred income tax liabilities 186.3 174.1
Net deferred income tax liabilities 159.6 152.8
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
(US$ in millions)
As at
1 January
2014 
Globe  
Wireless
acquisition
Recognised
in income
Recognised
in equity
As at
31 December
2014
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 143.7 1.2 10.8 – 155.7
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 30.5 – 7.2 – 37.7
Other (3.2) – (1.9) (0.9) (6.0)
Pension and post-employment beneﬁts (0.8) – (0.1) 0.6 (0.3)
Share options (6.6) – (0.1) (0.2) (6.9)
Loss carry forwards (10.8) – (9.8) – (20.6)
Total 152.8 1.2 6.1 (0.5) 159.6
(US$ in millions)
As at
1 January
2013 
TC Comms
acquisition
Transferred
to held
for sale
Recognised
in income
Recognised
in equity
As at
31 December
2013
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 138.9 – (1.0) 5.8 – 143.7
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of  
 qualifying assets 19.5 – – 11.0 – 30.5
Other (3.9) – – (2.9) 3.6 (3.2)
Pension and post-employment beneﬁts (1.4) – – – 0.6 (0.8)
Share options (3.9) – – (1.1) (1.6) (6.6)
Loss carry forwards (7.9) 0.1 – (3.0) – (10.8)
Total 141.3 0.1 (1.0) 9.8 2.6 152.8
Total unprovided deferred tax assets:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Temporary timing differences – (9.6)
Unused income tax losses (3.1) (6.9)
Unused capital losses (25.1) (25.3)
Total (28.2) (41.8)
Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes. The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect 
of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil (2013: $9.1m), resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil (2013: $0.5m). 
The Budget announced by the UK Chancellor on 20 March 2013 included changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies. The standard rate of 
corporation tax was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and there will be a further reduction to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. The deferred tax 
assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20%. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 116
23. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
Reconciliation of proﬁt for the year to cash generated from operations:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Proﬁt for the year 341.1 102.6
Adjustments for:
 Depreciation and amortisation 291.8 232.0
 Income tax expense 1.2 86.5
 Finance expense 75.1 54.2
 Finance income (8.1) (4.9)
 Non-cash employee beneﬁt costs 11.3 15.7
 Forward exchange contracts 2.1 (2.3)
 Share of proﬁt of associates, net of dividends received (1.5) (1.1)
 Loss on disposal of assets 1.2 0.1
 Acquisition-related adjustments – (4.6)
 Impairment losses 1.3 185.2
 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 2.7 1.3
Changes in net working capital:
 Increase in trade and other receivables (8.7) (10.9)
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 3.1 (6.5)
 Decrease in trade and other payables (61.3) (35.0)
 Increase in provisions 2.1 2.5
Cash generated from operations 653.4 614.8
24. SHARE CAPITAL
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Authorised:
1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of €0.0005 each (2013: 1,166,610,560) 0.7 0.7
0.7 0.7
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
448,321,387 ordinary shares of €0.0005 each (2013: 448,301,122) 0.3 0.3
0.3 0.3
During the year ended 31 December 2014, a total of 20,265 (2013: 439,276) ordinary shares of €0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the 
Company under its employee share schemes. No shares were repurchased during 2014 or 2013.
25. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS
The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages. 
During 2014, the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan (‘ESP’) was approved by shareholders and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans. Share 
awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules. Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards 
(‘BSA’) and Performance Share Awards (‘PSA’), which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan (‘BSP’) and Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) awards. 
The costs of these awards are recognised in the Income Statement (see note 7) based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date. Further 
information on how these are calculated can be found below and under ‘Employee beneﬁts’ in the principal accounting policies on page 95.
Staff Value Participation Plan
All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan (the ‘2004 Plan’) have now vested and are exercisable. Whenever options are exercised 
under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a de minimis charge of €1 for each tranche of options exercised. The options expire 10 years from the date 
of grant. Shares are transferred to the option holders from the Inmarsat Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (the ‘Trust’) (resident in Guernsey). 
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 117
A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reﬂects the options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2014, is as follows:
Shares
available
for grant
2004
Plan
options
outstanding
Weighted
average
exercise
price per
option
Balance at 1 January 2013 814,688 77,026 £3.72
Exercised – International Share Incentive Plan (38,533) –
Balance at 31 December 2013 776,155 77,026 £3.72
Exercised – Staff Value Participation Plan – (26,511) £7.23
Exercised – Bonus Share Plan (552,027) –
Balance at 31 December 2014 224,128 50,515 £3.74
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 50,515
Exercise price per tranche €1.00
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2014 is less than one year.
Bonus Share Award
Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management. Further information on awards 
granted to Directors can be found in the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 66 to 82.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares. The performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market based 
performance conditions. Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting. 
Details of the operation of the BSA can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the rules of the BSA the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares. It is, however, the 
intention of the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, 
the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant. This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, 
the total value of shares to be awarded (excluding shares added in lieu of dividends) will not change.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), for the Group’s Business Unit presidents and certain members of staff. 
The current three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 ﬁnancial years and awards are made according to achievements against non-market based 
targets. Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Performance Share Award
The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management. Further information on awards granted to 
Directors can be found in the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 66 to 82. Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid 
between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares. Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares 
which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisﬁed.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date. The transfer of shares is dependent upon 
performance conditions being satisﬁed over the three consecutive ﬁnancial years starting in the ﬁnancial year the award date falls. The rules of the 
PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares. It is, however, the intention of the 
Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and  
FTSE 350 Indices (excluding investment trusts), depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA measured over a three-year period. For the 
awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is 
linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures. The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 118
25. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS CONTINUED
The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2014 or after are as follows:
Grant date
Performance Share Awards
18 May
2011
30 March
2012
19 March
2013
19 March
2014
Grant price £6.07 £4.603 £7.00 £7.08
Exercise price nil nil nil nil
Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0%
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Volatility 32.1% 33.9% 34.1% 32.7%
Fair value per share option £3.17 £3.61 £5.76 £5.52
Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before 
the grant of an award. For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA 
share awards at 31 December 2014 is 1.3 and 1.1 years, respectively.
UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan
The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme. A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of £4.59  
(reﬂecting the maximum discount permitted of 20%) will mature in February 2016. 
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible. Participants are given either the opportunity 
to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, 
delivered (at the Company’s discretion) in cash or shares. It is the Company’s intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by 
the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued. A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of £4.59 will mature in February 2016. 
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings  
payments having been made. The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave  
Plan at 31 December 2014 is 1.5 years for each plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (‘ESPP’) is for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Company’s stock at a 15% discount using funds 
accumulated by an aggregate of 24 monthly contributions. A grant made under the scheme in November 2012 with an option price of £4.94 
(reﬂecting the maximum discount permitted of 15%) matured in January 2015. Options under the ESPP expire after a maximum of 2.25 years.  
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the ESPP at 31 December 2014 is 0.2 years.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions:
Grant date
Sharesave
Scheme
(UK and International)
18 December 2012
Employee Stock
Purchase Plan
26 November 2012
Market price at date of grant £5.93 £5.93
Exercise price £4.59 £4.94
Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa
Vesting period 3 years 2 years
Volatility 33.1% 36.5%
Dividend yield assumption 4.53% 4.53%
Risk free interest rate 0.46% 0.36%
Fair value per option £1.45 £1.34
UK Share Incentive Plan
The UK Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme. Arrangements exist which 
replicate the awards as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 119
A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31 December 2014 (excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted above) is as follows:
SIP (UK) BSA
(1)
PSA
Sharesave
(UK)
Sharesave
(International) ESPP Total
Balance at 31 December 2013 463,557 1,824,135 1,474,278 570,927 313,317 114,693 4,760,907
Granted/allocated – 910,830 531,136 – – – 1,441,966
Forfeited and lapsed – (116,627) (317,334) (43,219) (24,138) (21,390) (522,708)
Exercised (71,480) – – (11,974) (987) (7,304) (91,745)
Transferred/sold –(795,653) ––––(795,653)
Balance at 31 December 2014 392,077 1,822,685 1,688,080 515,734 288,192 85,999 4,792,767
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 –––––––
Exercise price per share n/a nil nil £4.59 £4.59 £4.94
(1) Includes the Business Unit LTIP scheme.
26. RESERVES
Cash ﬂow hedge reserve:
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Balance as at 1 January 8.6 (2.5)
Gain/(loss) recognised on cash ﬂow hedges:
 Forward exchange contracts (3.0) 11.6
 FX movement through cash ﬂow hedge reserve 0.1 (1.5)
Income tax charged directly to equity 0.2 (2.1)
Reclassiﬁed to the Income Statement
(1)
:
 Forward exchange contracts (11.7) (3.4)
 Interest rate swaps – 9.4
 FX movement through cash ﬂow hedge reserve 1.9 0.2
Income tax credited/(charged) related to amounts transferred to the Income Statement
(1)
2.3 (1.5)
Reclassiﬁed and capitalised on the Balance Sheet:
 Forward exchange contracts – (0.8)
 Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as ineffective
(2)
– (0.9)
 FX movement through cash ﬂow hedge reserve – 0.1
Balance as at 31 December (1.6) 8.6
(1) Gains and losses reclassiﬁed from equity into the Income Statement during the period are included in the following Income Statement lines:
(2) Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as they were deemed ineffective were released from the cash ﬂow hedge reserve and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in line with the 
underlying expenditure.
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Total net operating costs (9.8) (3.2)
Interest payable and similar charges – 9.4
Income tax expense 2.3 (1.5)
Total reclassiﬁed ((credited)/charged) to the Income Statement in the year (7.5) 4.7
Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and the Cash ﬂow hedge reserve. 
When a hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income and the Cash ﬂow 
hedge reserve is reclassiﬁed to the Income Statement. When a hedged item is recognised as a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability in the Balance Sheet the 
accumulated gain or loss is transferred from the Cash ﬂow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost. 
27. EARNINGS PER SHARE AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of  
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust.
(US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2014 2013
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216
Basic earnings per share 0.76 0.23 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 120
27. EARNINGS PER SHARE AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by increasing the weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation by any 
potentially dilutive ordinary shares. Potentially dilutive ordinary shares exist in respect of employee share options and awards from the Group’s 
employee share plans. A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as  
the average annual market price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share 
options and awards and value of related future employee services.
For 2014, the Convertible Bonds are dilutive due to the credit recognised to interest expense from re-basing the bonds to mature in November 2017 
(note 19). For 2013, the Convertible Bonds were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they were anti-dilutive. 
(US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2014 2013
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0
Interest on convertible bonds (net of tax) (14.4) –
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 326.1 102.0
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216
Share options 4,540,198 4,588,215
Convertible bonds 22,664,251 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 475,293,680 452,755,431
Diluted earnings per share 0.69 0.23
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
(US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2014
2013
(restated)
(1)
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0
Adjustments for:
 Provision in respect of tax liability on historic transaction (53.1) 53.1
 LightSquared Cooperation Agreement (net of tax) (59.0) (6.9)
 Impairment losses (net of tax) 0.9 159.2
Adjusted proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company 229.3 307.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216
Adjusted basic earnings per share 0.51 0.69
(1) Adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been restated to reﬂect the impact of the 2013 tax provision.
ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
(US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts) 2014
2013
(restated)
(1)
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0
Interest on convertible bonds (net of tax) (14.4) –
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 326.1 102.0
Adjustments for:
 Provision in respect of tax liability on historic transaction (53.1) 53.1
 LightSquared Cooperation Agreement (net of tax) (59.0) (6.9)
 Impairment losses (net of tax) 0.9 159.2
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 214.9 307.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216
Share options 4,540,198 4,588,215
Convertible bonds 22,664,251 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 475,293,680 452,755,431
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 0.45 0.68
(1) Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been restated to reﬂect the impact of the 2013 tax provision.
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations. The Group’s pension plans are provided through both deﬁned beneﬁt schemes 
and deﬁned contribution arrangements.
The Group operates deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Norway. The Group’s principal deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension plan is the Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee; the 
scheme is closed to new employees.
The Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualiﬁed 
and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2011. The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material 
changes in circumstances (including changes in market prices and interest rates) up to 31 December 2014, are set out below.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 121
The Group also provides post-employment beneﬁts for some of its employees. The Group’s principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement 
healthcare beneﬁt scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees (and their dependants) who were employed before 1 January 1998. 
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare beneﬁt plans. Membership 
of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK. The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the 
costs are paid. The cost of providing these beneﬁts is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to ﬂuctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plan’s assets 
and its liabilities. This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks. The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current 
investment strategy are as follows:
 > market risk (the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being 
lower than expected);
 > interest rate risk (the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates);
 > inﬂation risk (similar to interest rate risk but concerning inﬂation);
 > credit risk (the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made);
 > active management risk (the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment 
returns); and
 > currency risk (the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns).
In addition to the investment related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the ﬁnancial assumptions used 
in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice. This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the beneﬁt 
payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s pension and post-employment beneﬁts liabilities under IAS 19 are:
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Weighted average actuarial assumptions used at 31 December:
Discount rate 3.74% 4.72%
Future salary increases 3.05% 3.43%
Medical cost trend rate
(1)
3.40% 4.00%
Future pension increases 3.39% 3.32%
(1)  With effect from 1 January 2012, an inﬂationary cap on premiums for the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare beneﬁt scheme was introduced, set at CPI plus 1%. The Group will pay the 
annual premium and any increase in percentage terms to the premium, up to a percentage amount capped at no more than CPI plus 1%. Any increase to the annual premium above the 
inﬂationary cap will be payable by the members of the scheme.
Mortality assumptions have been updated to reﬂect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy. The average life 
expectancy assumptions for the Company’s pension and post-employment beneﬁts liabilities are as follows:
Life expectancy
2014
Life expectancy
2013
Male current age 65 88.6 88.2
Female current age 65 90.2 90.2
Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reﬂect the latest available tables, 
adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate. For the Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global 
post-retirement healthcare beneﬁts for 2014 and 2013, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and 
CMI 2011 improvement with a long-term trend of 1.5%.
Signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and 
healthcare cost trend rates. The sensitivity analysis below is for the Group’s principal pension and post-employment beneﬁts schemes, and has been 
determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other 
assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt scheme:
Change in assumption
Impact on
beneﬁt
obligation
increase/
(decrease)
Impact on
projected
pension cost
increase/
(decrease)
Increase in discount factor of 0.25% (5.9%) (31.3%)
Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.4% 31.5%
Increase in inﬂation of 0.25% 6.4% 30.2%
Decrease in inﬂation of 0.25% (5.9%) (28.0%)
Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.6% 11.8% INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 122
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare beneﬁt scheme:
Change in assumption
Impact on
beneﬁt
obligation
increase/
(decrease)
Impact on
service cost
increase/
(decrease)
Increase in discount factor of 0.5% (8.9%) –
Increase in inﬂation of 0.5% 10.2% –
Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 21.7% 20.3%
Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% (16.9%) (15.7%)
In reality there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inﬂation. The above analysis 
does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Present value of funded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (pension) (116.2) (101.9)
Present value of unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (pension) (1.0) (1.2)
Present value of unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (post-employment beneﬁts) (18.4) (17.4)
Fair value of deﬁned beneﬁt assets 133.6 114.0
Net deﬁned beneﬁt liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (2.0) (6.5)
The above net liability is recognised in the Balance Sheet as follows:
(US$ in millions) Note
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Pension asset 17 18.0 14.6
Deﬁned beneﬁt liability 21 (20.0) (21.1)
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations is as follows:
(US$ in millions)
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
pension
plan
Post-
employment
beneﬁts
At 1 January 2013 88.3 16.5
Current service cost 3.0 0.2
Interest cost 3.9 0.8
Remeasurement losses/(gains):
 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.4 –
 Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 4.9 (0.1)
Foreign exchange losses 2.8 0.3
Beneﬁts paid (1.5) (0.3)
Contributions by pension participants 1.3 –
At 31 December 2013 103.1 17.4
Current service cost 2.4 0.2
Past service cost –0.1
Interest cost 4.4 0.8
Remeasurement losses:
 Actuarial losses arising from changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 14.9 1.3
Gain on curtailment (1.4) –
Liabilities extinguished on settlement (1.3) –
Foreign exchange losses (5.4) (1.1)
Beneﬁts paid (0.8) (0.3)
Contributions by pension participants 1.3 –
At 31 December 2014 117.2 18.4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 123
Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is as follows:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
 2014
As at
31 December
 2013
At 1 January 114.0 96.1
Interest income 5.0 4.5
Remeasurement gains:
 Experience return on plan asset (excluding interest income) 17.7 7.4
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.3 0.2
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 1.6 0.3
Contributions by employer 1.5 2.1
Contributions by pension participants 1.5 1.4
Beneﬁts paid (0.6) (0.8)
Assets distributed on settlement (1.3) –
Expenses paid (included in service cost) (0.4) (0.6)
Foreign exchange gains (5.7) 3.4
At 31 December 133.6 114.0
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the plans are as follows:
(US$ in millions)
2014 2013
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
pension plan
Post-
employment
beneﬁts
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
pension plan
Post-
employment
beneﬁts
Current service cost 2.8 0.2 3.6 0.2
Past service cost –0.1 ––
Gain on curtailment (1.4) – ––
Net interest (income)/expense (0.6) 0.8 (0.6) 0.8
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss 0.3 (1.1) (0.6) 0.3
1.1 – 2.4 1.3
Current service cost is included within employee beneﬁt costs (note 7). The net ﬁnancing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are 
included within interest payable (note 9).
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows:
(US$ in millions)
2014 2013
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
pension plan
Post-
employment
beneﬁts
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
pension plan
Post-
employment
beneﬁts
Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (0.3) – 0.2 –
Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 13.3 1.3 4.6 (0.1)
Return on plan asset (excluding interest income) (17.7) – (7.4) –
Remeasurement of the net deﬁned beneﬁt asset and liability (4.7) 1.3 (2.6) (0.1)
The assets held in respect of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes were as follows:
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Value
(US$ in millions)
Percentage
of total plan
assets %
Value
(US$ in millions)
Percentage
of total plan
assets %
Equities 44.0 32.93% 39.0 34.21%
Cash 0.1 0.08% 0.2 0.17%
Bonds 73.9 55.31% 60.2 52.81%
Other 15.6 11.68% 14.6 12.81%
Fair value of scheme assets 133.6 114.0 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 124
28. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
The Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, all 
of which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property and Alternatives funds, which are priced monthly. The allocations to each of 
the investment funds as at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Fund Legal structure Allocation (%)
Passive Global Equity Mercer QIF CCF 8.0
Global Small Cap Equity MGI Funds PLC 6.2
Global Fundamental (RAFI) Equity Mercer QIF CCF 8.0
Emerging Markets Equity MGI Funds PLC 8.7
Global Low Volatility Equity MGI Funds PLC 3.6
Emerging Markets Debt MGI Funds PLC 2.8
Global High Yield Bonds MGI Funds PLC 1.0
Alternatives Mercer QIF Fund PLC 5.4
High Lease-to-Value Property Mercer QIF CCF 2.6
Private Debt Mercer Private Investment Partners (Offshore) LLP 0.6
Multi Asset Credit Mercer QIF Fund PLC 3.1
Total growth portfolio 50.0
Inﬂation-Linked LDI Bonds Mercer QIF Fund PLC 1.5
Flexible Enhanced Matching Real Mercer QIF Fund PLC 30.9
UK Credit Mercer PIF Fund PLC 15.1
UK Inﬂation Linked Bonds MGI Funds PLC 2.5
Total matching portfolio 50.0
Total assets 100.0
The investment portfolio seeks to mitigate the investment risks identiﬁed above through a combination of asset class diversiﬁcation, underlying 
investment manager diversiﬁcation and the use of currency hedging where appropriate. The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio 
and the matching portfolio. The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plan’s 
liabilities, ensuring a sufﬁciently diversiﬁed portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the 
plan to a single type of risk. The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the 
portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plan’s liabilities. This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined 
in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plan’s liability structure, the target 
level of hedging deemed appropriate to reﬂect the Trustee’s risk tolerance and a ‘fair value’ assessment of market levels. Some of these funds achieve 
their objectives by utilising a range of bond/bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater 
proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities. Instruments utilised within the funds include ﬁxed interest gilts, 
index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inﬂation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group; however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
 
The duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities within the Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt plan is approximately 27 years. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 
within that plan is split as follows:
Active members   69%
Deferred members  26%
Pensioner members  5%
The average age of the non-pensioner and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global deﬁned 
beneﬁt plan (31 December 2011) was 52 years and 67 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan during 2015 are $1.1m (2014: actual $1.2m).
Under the current Inmarsat Global deﬁned beneﬁt plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect 
of the past service deﬁcit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2011. The current Schedule of Contributions 
requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future beneﬁts for members of the deﬁned beneﬁt tier 
of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement. Contributions in respect of the Deﬁned 
Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition. 
The next statutory funding valuation of the Plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2014. As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required 
to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deﬁcit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of beneﬁts. This could 
lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
29. ACQUISITIONS
ACQUISITION OF TC COMMUNICATIONS
On 8 May 2013, the Group acquired the shares of TC Communications Pty Ltd (‘TC Comms’), a company based in Australia. The operations of  
TC Comms have been integrated within the Government and Enterprise reporting segments. During 2014, TC Comms changed its name to  
Inmarsat Australia Pty Ltd.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 125
ACQUISITION OF GLOBE WIRELESS
Effective from 1 January 2014, the Group acquired the mobile satellite communications business and substantially all of the related assets of Globe 
Wireless LLC, for cash consideration of $45.2m. Globe Wireless is a leading provider of value-added maritime communications services to the 
shipping market. The acquisition of Globe Wireless will beneﬁt Inmarsat’s Maritime operating segment, with operating synergies and revenue growth 
expected from the acquisition.
The acquisition of Globe Wireless has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, ‘Business 
Combinations’. The consolidated results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 include the ﬁnancial results of Globe Wireless from  
1 January 2014 (the effective date of the transaction). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring  
the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the allocation of the purchase consideration was ﬁnalised. As a result of this review, we recognised 
identiﬁable intangible assets of $23.6m (refer to table below) and goodwill of $14.7m. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration 
over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. Qualitatively, goodwill represents, among other factors, the assembled workforce, which is not 
separately identiﬁed as part of the purchase price allocation. The goodwill balance also represents the beneﬁt to the Group of the operating 
synergies and revenue growth expected from the acquisition. 
The ﬁnal allocation of the purchase consideration to the net assets and liabilities of Globe Wireless is as follows:
Grant date Book value
Fair value  
adjustments
Fair value at  
acquisition date
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets
(1)
12.7 10.9 23.6
Property, plant and equipment 3.2 – 3.2
Other assets 0.2 – 0.2
Total non-current assets 16.1 10.9 27.0
Trade and other receivables
(2)
22.0 – 22.0
Inventories 3.7 – 3.7
Other assets 2.4 – 2.4
Total current assets 28.1 – 28.1
Trade and other payables (14.8) – (14.8)
Deferred revenue (3.0) – (3.0)
Other liabilities (4.7) – (4.7)
Deferred income tax liabilities –(1.2) (1.2)
Non-current other payables (0.9) – (0.9)
Total liabilities (23.4) (1.2) (24.6)
Identiﬁable net assets 20.8 9.7 30.5
Cash consideration 45.2
Goodwill recognised
(3)
14.7
(1) The allocation of intangible assets consists of $16.0m of customer relationships, $3.5m for software, $3.5m for technology and $0.6m in relation to trade names, which are to be amortised 
over their useful lives of 14, 3 to 5, 5, and 5 years, respectively. 
(2) The book value of trade receivables of $15.2m, included within trade and other receivables, approximates to their fair value and the entire balance is deemed collectable.
(3) Of the $14.7m goodwill balance recognised, 75% of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes at the rate of 7% on a declining-balance basis. 
The increase in the Group’s revenues in the year ended 31 December 2014 included $55.1m due to the acquisition of Globe Wireless. The impact  
is shown net of intercompany eliminations and adjustments as Globe Wireless is an established distribution partner of Inmarsat; therefore the 
stand-alone results of Globe Wireless do not represent a corresponding increase in Group results.
30. OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
The Group’s future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments 
are as follows:
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Non-
cancellable
operating
 leases
Other
unrecognised
contractual
commitments Total
Non-
cancellable
operating
 leases
Other
unrecognised
contractual
commitments Total
Within one year 16.1 13.7 29.8 18.0 21.8 39.8
Within two to ﬁve years 51.9 24.0 75.9 55.8 27.6 83.4
After ﬁve years 64.1 – 64.1 74.5 – 74.5
132.1 37.7 169.8 148.3 49.4 197.7
Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased ofﬁce space, including the Group’s head ofﬁce located at 99 City Road, London. Other 
unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2014 relating to the aforementioned 
head ofﬁce lease is $1.1m over one year (as at 31 December 2013: $2.6m over two years). INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 126
30. OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS CONTINUED
In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Within one year 27.2 43.6
Within two to ﬁve years 15.9 28.8
43.1 72.4
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment. These amounts are recorded as revenue 
on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Group’s future aggregate minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Within one year 32.1 40.7
Within two to ﬁve years 12.0 –
44.1 40.7
31. CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The following table summarises the capital of the Group:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
As per Balance Sheet
Cash and cash equivalents (204.4) (144.3)
Borrowings 2,105.1 1,957.1
Net borrowings 1,900.7 1,812.8
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,182.6 1,047.5
Capital 3,083.3 2,860.3
The Group’s objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders 
and beneﬁts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Group continually evaluates 
sources of capital and may repurchase, reﬁnance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and/or debt securities from time to time in private 
or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities. Additionally, 
the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities. 
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings (gross of deferred ﬁnance costs) to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2014 is 2.75 (2013: 2.84).
The Group’s liquidity is disclosed in note 3(d).
No changes were made in the Group’s objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY
The Group’s treasury activities are managed by its corporate ﬁnance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose 
chairman is the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines. The overriding objective of treasury 
activities is to manage ﬁnancial risk.
Key features of treasury management include:
 > ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due;
 > maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities;
 > economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash ﬂows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering 
exposures up to a maximum of three years forward;
 > interest rate hedging; and
 > maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 127
The Group’s foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies. The treasury department is, 
however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the 
hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each ﬁnancial year, an average rate 
of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency transactions. This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21. The policy is designed to 
minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement; gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments 
in the period are different from those that were forecast.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY
The following table sets out the categorisation of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39:
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Loans and
receivables
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging
Available- 
for-sale Total
Loans and
receivables
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging
Available- 
for-sale Total
Assets as per Balance Sheet
Trade receivables and other
(1)
242.1 – – 242.1 239.2 – – 239.2
Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 – – 204.4 144.3 – – 144.3
Derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments –1.4 –1.4 –12.8 – 12.8
Investments – – 32.9 32.9 – – 23.5 23.5
446.5 1.4 32.9 480.8 383.5 12.8 23.5 419.8
(1) Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income (see note 17).
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Derivatives
 used for
hedging
 Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities Total
Derivatives
 used for
hedging
 Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities Total
Liabilities as per Balance Sheet
Borrowings – 2,105.1 2,105.1 –1,957.1 1,957.1
Trade payables and other
(1)
–221.4 221.4 –219.3 219.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 5.0 – 5.0 0.5 – 0.5
5.0 2,326.5 2,331.5 0.5 2,176.4 2,176.9
(1) Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals (see note 20).
The table below analyses the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities and net-settled derivative ﬁnancial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash ﬂows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not signiﬁcant.
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years
Over
5 years Total
Borrowings
(1)
195.4 276.0 876.9 1,276.6 2,624.9
Trade payables and other 195.8 1.9 22.3 1.4 221.4
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 5.0––– 5.0
396.2 277.9 899.2 1,278.0 2,851.3
(1)  Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds. The interest obligations assume no changes in ﬂoating interest rates from 
the year end.
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2013
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years
Over
5 years Total
Borrowings
(1)
487.0 189.4 1,343.7 303.4 2,323.5
Trade payables and other 193.1 1.3 23.3 1.6 219.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.5 – – – 0.5
680.6 190.7 1,367.0 305.0 2,543.3
(1)  Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility and Convertible Bonds. The interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest 
rate swaps and assume no changes in ﬂoating interest rates from the year end. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 128
32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts, which are primarily designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
The fair values at the Balance Sheet date were:
(US$ in millions)
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Financial assets:
Forward foreign currency contracts – designated cash ﬂow hedges 1.4 12.1
Forward foreign currency contracts – undesignated – 0.7
Total derivative ﬁnancial assets 1.4 12.8
Current portion of derivative ﬁnancial assets 1.4 9.2
Non-current portion of derivative ﬁnancial assets – 3.6
Financial liabilities:
Forward foreign currency contracts – designated cash ﬂow hedges 4.5 0.5
Forward foreign currency contracts – undesignated 0.5 –
Total derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 5.0 0.5
Current portion of derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 5.0 0.5
The full value of a hedging derivative is classiﬁed as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 
months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classiﬁed 
as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7. The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based upon the difference between the 
contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate 
at the period end.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE
The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2014 and 2013:
Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts (in millions)
As at 31 December 2014
Face
value
Maturing
within
1 year
Maturing
between
1 and 2
years
Fair value
(US$)
GBP contracts £66.0 £66.0 – (2.1)
Euro contracts €6.0 €6.0 – (0.8)
Canadian Dollar contracts $18.0 $18.0 – (0.7)
(3.6)
Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts (in millions)
As at 31 December 2013
Face
value
Maturing
within
1 year
Maturing
between
1 and 2
years
Fair value
(US$)
GBP contracts £99.7 £74.7 £25.0 12.6
Euro contracts €4.8 €4.8 – 0.2
Canadian Dollar contracts $16.8 $16.8 – (0.5)
12.3
NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 129
FAIR VALUE OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2022 and Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments approximate to 
the carrying value in the Balance Sheet.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values:
 > the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these 
instruments (see note 16);
 > the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values 
(see notes 17 and 20 respectively);
 > an investment classiﬁed as available-for-sale was carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which was determined according to the binding 
agreement with a third party for the sale of the asset (see note 15);
 > the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the 
period end. This carrying amount approximately equals fair value (see note 19);
 > the Senior Notes due 2022 are reﬂected in the Balance Sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $8.7m and $7.6m, 
respectively (see note 19). The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reﬂected in the table below;
 > the EIB Facility is reﬂected in the Balance Sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $0.6m (2013: $1.1m). The fair value approximates the 
carrying value (see note 19);
 > the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reﬂected in the Balance Sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $18.9m (2013: $18.1m). The fair value 
approximates the carrying value (see note 19); and
 > the liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reﬂected in the Balance Sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of 
$nil (2013: $1.0m) (see note 19). The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds and is reﬂected in the table below.
(US$ in millions)
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Carrying
amount
Fair value
amount
Carrying
amount
Fair value
amount
Senior Notes due 2017 –– 850.0 885.6
Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 992.5 ––
Convertible Bonds 301.3 418.7 325.6 392.0
33. DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE
On 7 November 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into binding agreements to sell its 19% holding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM Inc. for total 
proceeds of $32.9m. The investment in SkyWave, with a carrying amount of $23.5m, was reclassiﬁed to assets held for sale. As the investment had 
been categorised as an available-for-sale ﬁnancial asset, it was remeasured to its fair value of $32.9m as at 31 December 2014. The resulting gain was 
recognised through other comprehensive income. The sale subsequently closed on 2 January 2015 and the gain was reclassiﬁed to proﬁt at that time. 
On 3 February 2014, following regulatory and other approvals, the Group announced completion of the sale of the majority of its retail energy business to 
RigNet, Inc. (‘RigNet’). The sale included the Group’s microwave and WiMAX networks in the US Gulf of Mexico, VSAT interests in the UK, the US and Canada, 
telecommunications systems integration business operating worldwide and retail L -band energy satcoms business. In addition, the Group sold its interest  
in retail energy-related teleport assets located in Moscow. Total fair value of the net assets of the disposal group as at 31 December 2013 was $23.8m and 
included assets classiﬁed as held for sale of $42.8m and liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale of $19.0m. Total proceeds on the sale of the 
retail energy business and related assets were $27.0m. 
34. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2014 of $504.0m (2013: $713.3m).  
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Group’s GX and S-Band satellite programmes.
35. CONTINGENT LIABILITY
The Group has received enquiries from Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) in respect of arrangements which have been entered into in 
prior periods. The potential tax liability in relation to these enquiries is estimated to be in the region of $18m. The Group has sought external advice 
and management does not believe that a material economic outﬂow is probable; therefore no provision has been recorded in these ﬁnancial 
statements. However, this disclosure has been made in light of the ongoing enquiries being made by HMRC.
No accurate estimation of the time required to settle this matter can currently be given. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 130
36. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its equity-owned investees NTS Maritime Limited, Navarino Telecom SA and JSAT 
Mobile Communications Inc. These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged. Group revenue 
from the related parties for the 2014 ﬁnancial year was $34.0m, $0.1m and $22.0m, respectively (2013: $31.3m, $0.8m and $19.4m, respectively). The 
amount receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2014 was $14.5m, $0.8m and $2.7m, respectively (2013: $14.8m, $0.3m and $3.1m, respectively).
Amounts owing to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 were $6.2m and 3.4m, respectively, and relate to 
remuneration earned in the normal course of operations (see note 8).
37. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
At 31 December 2014, the Company had investments in the following principal subsidiaries that have a signiﬁcant impact on the consolidated results and 
total assets of the Group. To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of subsidiaries and associates which are not signiﬁcant have been omitted from 
this list. A full list of subsidiaries and associates will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return to be ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies.
Principal activity
Country of
incorporation and
operation
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2014
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2013
Inmarsat Finance plc Finance company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Leasing (Two) Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece 100% 100%
Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100%
Inmarsat Canada Holdings Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions B.V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions (US) Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100%
Segovia, Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions Pte Limited Operating company Singapore 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway 100% 100%
Inmarsat Mobile Networks Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100%
Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions (Canada) Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
TC Communications Pty Ltd
 (1)
Operating company Australia 100% 100%
(1) TC Communications Pty Ltd was renamed Inmarsat Australia Pty Ltd in October 2014.
38. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 7 November 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into binding agreements to sell its 19% holding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM Inc. for total proceeds of 
$32.9m. Subsequently, the sale closed on 2 January 2015. As at 31 December 2014, the Group reclassiﬁed the investment in SkyWave to assets held for sale and 
remeasured the asset to fair market value, recognising an after-tax gain of $8.0m, in other comprehensive income. The gain was reclassiﬁed to proﬁt in 2015.
During 2014, LightSquared elected to restart Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement and as a result, recommenced quarterly payments to Inmarsat. 
On 2 January 2015, Inmarsat issued a default notice to LightSquared indicating the $17.5m payment due 31 December 2014 had not been received in 
accordance with the quarterly payment schedule. However, this payment was subsequently received on 25 February 2015. As at 31 December 2014, 
no revenue had been recognised in respect of the payment owing from LightSquared, due to the uncertainty of receiving the payment.
Subsequent to 31 December 2014, other than the events discussed above, there have been no other material events which would affect the 
information reﬂected in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 131
(US$ in millions) 
As at
31 December
2014
As at
31 December
2013
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments
(1)
1,079.6 1,071.1
Other receivables
(2)
73.3 56.3
Deferred income tax asset 0.1 1.0
1,153.0 1,128.4
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 1.6
Trade and other receivables
(3)
1.2 1.2
Current income tax asset – 8.4
2.9 11.2
Total assets 1,155.9 1,139.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
(4)
9.0 5.9
Current income tax liabilities 4.1 –
Borrowings
(5)
– 327.6
13.1 333.5
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
(5)
304.4 –
Total liabilities 317.5 333.5
Net assets 838.4 806.1
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 0.3 0.3
Share premium 687.6 687.4
Convertible Bonds reserve 56.9 56.9
Other reserves 59.6 53.0
Retained earnings 34.0 8.5
Total equity 838.4 806.1
(1)  Investments consist of a $1,007.8m investment in Inmarsat Holdings Limited (2013: $1,007.8m) and $71.8m of capital contributions to Group companies in respect of share-based payments 
(2013: $63.3m).
(2) Other receivables consist of $73.3m amounts due from Group companies (2013: $56.3m).
(3) Trade and other receivables consist of $1.2m amounts due from Group companies (2013: $1.2m).
(4)  Trade and other payables consists of $1.6m due to shareholders in respect of dividends paid during 2014 (2013: $1.4m), accruals of $2.8m (2013: $3.1m) and amounts due to Group companies 
of $4.6m (2013: $1.4m). 
(5) Borrowings comprise the Convertible Bonds discussed in note 19 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The ﬁnancial statements of the Company, registered number 4886072, on pages 131 to 133 were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2015 
and signed on its behalf by:
RUPERT PEARCE   TONY BATES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 132
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Cash used in operations 4.9 (1.8)
Interest received – 0.3
Net cash used in operating activities 4.9 (1.5)
Cash ﬂow from investing activities
Dividends received from Group companies 225.8 157.8
Net cash from investing activities 225.8 157.8
Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders (212.6) (200.5)
Interest paid on Convertible Bonds (5.0) (5.0)
Intercompany funding (13.0) 49.2
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (230.6) (156.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 –
Movement in cash and cash equivalents
At beginning of year 1.6 1.6
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 –
As reported on the Balance Sheet (net of bank overdrafts) 1.7 1.6
At end of year, comprising
Cash at bank and in hand 1.7 1.6
1.7 1.6
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(US$ in millions)
Ordinary
share
capital
Share
premium
account
Convertible
Bonds
reserve
Share
option
reserve
Other
reserve
(1)
Accumulated
proﬁt Total
Balance at 1 January 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 56.5 (12.0) 77.4 866.5
Proﬁt for the year ––––– 133.2 133.2
Dividends paid ––––– (202.4) (202.4)
Share options charge – – – 5.0 3.5 0.3 8.8
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 61.5 (8.5) 8.5 806.1
Proﬁt for the year ––––– 238.7 238.7
Issue of share capital – 0.2–––– 0.2
Dividends paid ––––– (212.8) (212.8)
Share options charge ––– 1.0 5.6 (0.4) 6.2
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 (2.9) 34.0 838.4
(1) The other reserve relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust.
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 133
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The ﬁnancial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by 
the European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The accounting policies and ﬁnancial risk management policies and objectives, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the 
consolidated Group as set out in notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial accounts.
INCOME STATEMENT
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of Companies Act 2006 and has not presented an Income 
Statement. The proﬁt for the year ended 31 December 2014 was $238.7m (2013: $133.2m).
AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
During the year, the Company paid its external auditor $0.2m for statutory audit services (2013: $0.2m).
EMPLOYEE COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The average monthly number of people employed during the year was one (2013: one). Total staff costs for 2014 were $0.5m (2013: $3.0m).  
Full details of Directors’ remuneration and Directors’ share options and share awards are given in the Remuneration Report.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Accounting for foreign currency transactions of the Company is consistent with that of the Group, which is disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
SHARE CAPITAL
The share capital of the Company is disclosed in note 24 to the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments’ disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with that of the Group as set out in note 32 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The differences between the Group and the Company in relation to intercompany balances are $74.5m (2013: $57.5m) amounts due from Group 
companies and $4.6m (2013: $1.4m) amounts due to Group companies, which eliminate on consolidation. The Directors consider the carrying value 
of the intercompany balances to approximate to their fair value.
CASH USED IN OPERATIONS
Reconciliation of proﬁt for the year to net cash outﬂow from operating activities.
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013
Proﬁt for the year 238.7 133.2
Adjustments for:
 Income tax expense/(credit) 7.8 (2.6)
 Finance expense
(1)
(17.1) 30.6
 Finance income (3.6) (3.2)
 Dividend receivable (225.8) (157.8)
 Non-cash employee beneﬁt costs (1.8) 1.2
Changes in net working capital:
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (0.4) 0.6
 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 7.1 (3.8)
Cash inﬂow from/(used in) operations 4.9 (1.8)
(1) Includes the impact of a non-recurring adjustment to interest on the Convertible Bonds.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 134
A
ACARS
Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System is a digital 
datalink system for transmission of short messages between aircraft and 
ground stations via airband radio or satellites.
ACTIVE TERMINAL
A terminal that has been used to access commercial services at any time 
during the preceding 12 months and is registered with one of our services 
at the period end. It includes the average number of certain handheld 
terminals active on a daily basis during the ﬁnal month of a period and 
excludes M2M terminals.
ADS-C
Automatic Dependent Surveillance – Contact provides an automated 
two-way surveillance technology through which periodic reporting rates can 
be speciﬁed between air trafﬁc control systems and aircraft avionics systems.
ALPHASAT
A satellite developed with the European Space Agency and launched in 
2013. It supplements our I4 satellite constellation.
ATC (ALSO ACGC OR CTC)
‘Ancillary Terrestrial Components’ provide communications services 
from ground stations either as stand-alone services or to complement 
satellite services.
B
BAND
The radio spectrum is divided into different bands which each cover a 
section of frequencies that are usually used for a similar purpose. Bands 
are allocated to speciﬁc uses at international level by the ITU and 
regulated at a national level by domestic organisations and governments. 
BGAN
‘Broadband Global Area Network’ is a high-speed data satellite network 
that spans the globe.
C
COMMISSIONED TERMINAL
A terminal that is registered with one of our services at the period end.
CAGR
The Compound Annual Rate of Growth measures average annual growth 
over a period of time and is a key performance indicator for our MSS 
wholesale revenues.
CGU
A cash generating unit is the smallest group of assets that generates 
cash inﬂows largely independently from the other parts of the business 
and which represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored 
within the business.
THE COMPANY
Where we refer to the Company we are referring to Inmarsat plc, the 
holding company of the Inmarsat Group.
D
DEFINED BENEFIT AND DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES
Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions schemes provide post-employment beneﬁts 
based on an employee’s ﬁnal salary. Deﬁned contribution pension 
schemes are schemes into which Inmarsat makes ﬁxed contributions 
based on a percentage of an employee’s salary.
E
EBITDA
‘Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation’ is a  
key performance indicator used in the commercial and ﬁnancial 
management of the business. It is a non-GAAP measure under IFRS.
F
FANS
Future Air Navigation System. FANS-I/A design is a range of FANS 
products. FANS is an avionics system which provides direct data link 
communication between the pilot and Air Trafﬁc Controller.
FLEETBROADBAND
Our ﬂagship maritime service providing voice and broadband data 
services across the world’s oceans.
G
GAAP
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is the standard ﬁnancial 
reporting framework as deﬁned by a body of accounting standards and 
other guidance used in a given jurisdiction (see IFRS).
GEOSTATIONARY ORBIT
A circular geosynchronous orbit directly above the Earth’s equator. 
Satellites in geosynchronous orbit match their orbit to the orbit of the 
earth and so remain permanently in the same area of the sky.
GLOBAL XPRESS (GX)
The ﬁrst high-speed broadband satellite network to span the globe, from 
a single operator. It uses powerful beams able to reach small antennas on 
earth providing digital connections for aviation, land and maritime use.
GMDSS 
Global Maritime Distress and Safety Service. Inmarsat is the only 
approved provider of this Maritime Safety Service by the  International 
Maritime Organization (IMO).
GROUND STATIONS
Our Ground Stations connect Inmarsat satellites to terrestrial networks 
and the internet. They are manned 24/7 in locations across the globe and 
continuously monitored from our network operations centre in London. 
THE GROUP
The Group refers to Inmarsat plc and all of its subsidiaries. We may also 
use ‘we’ and ‘our’ in reference to the Group, depending on the context.
GSPS
Global Satellite Phone Services are our handheld products and services 
including IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2.
Due to the technical nature of satellite communications and ﬁnancial reporting we use a number of terms and abbreviations in this Annual Report and 
Accounts that are widely used within those industries but are less commonly used by our broader community of stakeholders. The principal ones are 
summarised below.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 135
I
IAS OR IFRS
International Accounting Standards or International Financial Reporting 
Standards are the accounting standards issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. IFRS is also used to refer to international 
GAAP as a whole.
ICAO
International Civil Aviation Organization.
INMARSAT-2 (I-2), INMARSAT-4 (I-4), INMARSAT-5 (I-5)
The second, fourth and ﬁfth generations of Inmarsat satellites.  
Individual satellites in each constellation are numbered F1, F2, F3, etc,  
so I-5 F2 refers to the second satellite launched in the ﬁfth generation  
of Inmarsat satellites.
ITU
International Telecommunications Union.
K
KA-BAND
The frequency band used by our GX satellites, it has higher bandwidth 
than other bands allowing more data to be transmitted over the same 
satellite capacity. 
KU-BAND
A frequency band used by a number of our products and services that  
we procure from other satellite network operators to complement our 
own spectrum. 
L
L-BAND
The frequency band used by our I-3 and I-4 satellites.
LIGHTSQUARED
A cooperation agreement between Inmarsat, LightSquared LP, Skyterra 
Inc and LightSquared Inc for the use of L-band in North America.
M
M2M
Machine-to-machine services and products.
MSS
Mobile Satellite Services.
MBPS
Megabits per second are the units used to measure data transfer rates  
in the satellite communications industry.
N
NETWORK AND SATELLITE OPERATIONS COSTS
The costs of operating our ground stations. 
O
OWN WORK CAPITALISED
Employee-related costs including salary and travel costs incurred in 
bringing property, plant and equipment into use. Own work capitalised  
is capitalised as part of the total cost of an asset.
R
RIGNET INC
A distribution partner and the company that acquired the retail energy 
business that we disposed of in 2014.
S
SAS
Satellite Access Station is another term for a Ground Station.
S-BAND
The band width we are using for a high-speed broadband service under 
development for the EU aviation industry. The programme will see an 
Inmarsat S-band satellite fully integrated with a ground network being 
developed with our technology partner Alcatel-Lucent. We also use the 
term S-band to refer to the S-band programme in general.
SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS
Carbon emissions as deﬁned by the greenhouse gas protocol.
Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including travel.
SEP/INMARSAT GATEWAY
Our Service Enablement Platform for GX delivering customer support, 
network services and an app store, it also opens up our networks to 
innovators through a developer portal. This is also now referred to as  
the Inmarsat Gateway.
SWIFTBROADBAND
A global service providing voice and high-speed data simultaneously 
through a single installation on an aircraft.
T
TÉLÉCOMS SANS FRONTIÈRES (TSF)
The telecommunications relief aid organisation, it is a core beneﬁciary  
of our charitable support. 
TERMINALS
The consumer hardware used to receive and transmit voice and data 
from earth across our satellite network. It includes antenna enabled 
hardware such as satellite phones and on-board antennas.
V
VSAT
Very Small Aperture Terminals are small mobile two-way satellite 
antennas able to receive and transmit voice and broadband data to a 
satellite. VSAT services are typically charged using a ﬁxed monthly fee.
X
XPRESSLINK (XL)
Xpresslink is a fully-integrated Ku-band and L-band service with VSAT 
and FleetBroadband terminals. INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 136
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
(US$ in millions) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Revenues 1,285.9 1,261.9 1,337.8 1,408.5 1,171.6
EBITDA 701.0 648.8 694.7 854.4 696.1
EBITDA % 54.5% 51.4% 51.9% 60.7% 59.4%
Proﬁt before income tax 342.3 189.1 293.6 366.9 333.5
Proﬁt for year 341.1 102.6 217.4 249.5 261.1
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 644.8 597.1 659.5 881.6 744.3
Net cash used in investing activities (424.4) (583.7) (499.1) (702.0) (295.5)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (156.4) (204.5) (11.1) (340.5) (331.5)
Total assets 4,091.9 3,868.8 3,753.0 3,409.1 3,158.0
Total liabilities (2,908.8) (2,821.0) (2,627.1) (2,328.0) (2,069.3)
Shareholders’ equity 1,183.1 1,047.8 1,125.9 1,081.1 1,088.7
Notes:
Segovia is included in the results from 12 January 2010.
Ship Equip is included in the results from 28 April 2011.
NewWave is included in the results from 13 January 2012.
TC Comms is included in the results from 8 May 2013.
Globe Wireless is included in the results from 1 January 2014.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2015
6 May Annual General Meeting
14 May Ex-dividend date for 2014 ﬁnal dividend
15 May Record date for 2014 ﬁnal dividend
29 May 2014 ﬁnal dividend payment date
August 2015 interim results
October 2015 interim dividend payment
INMARSAT CORPORATE CONTACTS
Christopher McLaughlin, Senior Vice President, External Affairs
David Boyd, Head of Investor Relations
REGISTERED OFFICE
99 City Road
London EC1Y 1AX
Tel: +44 (0)20 7728 1000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7728 1044
www.inmarsat.com
REGISTERED NUMBER
4886072 England and Wales
AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
SOLICITORS
Clifford Chance LLP
10 Upper Bank Street
London E14 5JJ
BROKERS
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
London E14 5JP
Credit Suisse
1 Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
PO Box 4630
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING  
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this Annual Report constitute ‘forward-looking 
statements’ within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation  
Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve risks, 
uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, 
performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially  
different from those projected in the forward-looking statements.  
These factors include: general economic and business conditions;  
changes in technology; timing or delay in signing, commencement, 
implementation and performance of programmes, or the delivery  
of products or services under them; structural change in the satellite 
industry; relationships with customers; competition; and ability to  
attract personnel. You are cautioned not to rely on these forward- 
looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this  
Annual Report.
Inmarsat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward- 
looking statement to reﬂect any change in its expectations or any  
change in events, conditions or circumstances, except where it  
would be required to do so under applicable law.
Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived 
from sustainable sources Inmarsat plc
99 City Road 
London 
EC1Y 1AX 
United Kingdom 
inmarsat.com
