 ANNUAL REPORT AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2006
UNITED KINGDOM
AUSTRALIA
CANADA
GERMANY
JAPAN
SOUTH AFRICA
UNITED STATES  At the Innovation Group, we provide outstanding depth
into the insurance value chain and leverage our software
and outsourcing expertise to devise a solution designed
for maximum impact. Our clients – insurers, banks,
retailers, manufacturers and government – have the
ﬂexibility to choose how to use our solutions and
offerings. From outsourcing to insourcing to licensing
software in the world’s largest insurance markets,
including North America, the U.K., Germany, South
Africa, Australia and Japan, our clients use our expertise
to generate positive change within their organisation
and on their bottom-line.
The Group’s proposition is modular, offering a range of
solutions from ‘building blocks’ for step change to
complete solutions for radical transformation. We work
with clients to generate new products and support their
sales, employing our call centres to convert prospects
into policyholders, and our software to quote and
manage these policies moving forward. In the event of
an incident – be it home, auto or manufacturer warranty
– our call centres, claims professionals and software
manage every step of the claims process to realise
greater efﬁciency, improved customer satisfaction and
higher proﬁts.
The support provided by their people
and systems allow our agents, 
representatives and staff to provide 
a consistent high quality service 
to our valued customers throughout
Australia.
Jonathon Fox, General Manager – 
Insurance Operations
Elders Insurance, Australia
“
”
CONSISTENCY
AND QUALITY
OF SUPPORT Highlights 3
Chairman’s Statement 5
Chief Executive’s Statement 8
Finance Director’s Review 11
Financial Highlights 13
Board of Directors 15
Executive Management Team 16
Directors’ Report 17
Corporate Governance 19
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report 25
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members 
of The Innovation Group Plc 29
Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account 30
Consolidated Balance Sheet 31
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 32
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 33
Notes to the Financial Statements 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in relation to the Company Financial Statements 77
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members 
of The Innovation Group Plc 78
Company Balance Sheet 79
Company Notes to the Financial Statements 80
Five Year Review 87
Ofﬁcers and Professional Advisers 88
CONTENTS 3
HIGHLIGHTS
• Total revenues up 31% (23% organic) to £79.7m (2005: £60.9m)
• Recurring revenue increased by 37% (25% organic) to £55.4m (2005: £40.5m)
representing 70% (2005: 67%) of Group revenues
• Adjusted proﬁt before tax of £10.9m
*
(2005: £3.6m)
• Proﬁt before tax of £8.5m (2005: £1.9m)
• 69% of adjusted proﬁt attributable to outsourcing
• Five acquisitions completed during the year, strengthening geographic reach
and bringing further cross-selling opportunities
• Seven new software contracts and contract extensions signed during the year
POST PERIOD END:
• Entry into US outsourcing market via acquisition of First Notice Systems, Inc.
(“FNS”) for £27.1m (US$ 51.6m) and Sureplan US for £3.5m (US$ 6.5m)
• Entered travel insurance market via acquisition of Holmwoods and Back and
Manson (South Africa) for £5.5m (ZAR 70.9m)
• Rights Issue undertaken to raise approximately £37.9m (before expenses)
• Two UK software contracts signed, one with a new client and the other
representing successful cross-selling between the Group’s outsourcing and
software solutions client base
* Adjusted proﬁt before tax is proﬁt before tax after adding back the amortisation charge of £1.3m, a
share based payments charge of £0.9m and utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses
of £0.2m as analysed on page 13.
Commenting on the results, Hassan Sadiq, Chief Executive, said:
I am delighted with The Innovation Group’s performance in 2006. We increased
revenue by 31% and 70% of our total revenue is now recurring. During the year we
built the business through organic growth and via selective acquisitions, culminating
in the recently announced acquisition of First Notice Systems, securing critical mass
in the important US market. The current year has started encouragingly with two UK
software wins and several new outsourcing contracts. The Group is well positioned
for 2007.
“
” 4
RESULTS-FOCUSED 
CREATIVITY; 
ACTION-ORIENTATED
Our contacts at Innovation Group have impressed
us with their quick reactions, a high degree of
ﬂexibility and their competence. In difﬁcult 
situations, they ﬁnd solutions. On top of that, 
they help us save money!
Olaf Standhardt, Head of Claims
Nestle, Germany
“
” 5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Innovation Group provides software and outsourcing services to
the insurance industry. Our vision is to provide technology and best
practice for the administration of policies and claims for the world’s
insurers and risk carriers. The Group is totally focused on this market,
and delivers its two broad offerings through a single client-centric
organisation. We are a multinational player operating in the world’s
largest insurance markets with a strong proportion of our clients
being international in nature. Our 1,400 people across the world
have extensive insurance experience, and they are ably supported by
our partners.
The Year in Review
During 2006, we continued to make strong progress in all aspects of
our business. We delivered signiﬁcant growth in both revenue and
proﬁts and we had strong cash generation with an operating cash
inﬂow of £10m. Recurring revenue increased from £40.5m in 2005
to £55.4m in 2006 and is now 70% of total revenue. Organic revenue
growth was 23% during the year and this was complemented by
acquisition activity where we completed ﬁve acquisitions to further
extend our geographic reach. 
Client satisfaction reﬂects the underlying strength of our business,
and our client relationships continued to prosper during the year.
We extended our outsourcing relationships with existing outsourcing
clients and also won new clients, which resulted in organic growth
of 23%. In addition we also secured seven new software licences,
which help to secure our immediate future revenues. 
Since the year end we have undertaken the acquisition of First Notice
Systems. This strategic acquisition provides the Group with an
important entry into the insurance outsourcing market in the USA.
We are pleased that the strong management team of First Notice
Systems are joining the Group. In addition, Eric Wadsworth, the Group
COO, is relocating to the USA to ensure the smooth integration and
success of the acquisition.
Financial results
Revenue for the year ended 30 September 2006 was £79.7m (2005:
£60.9m); recurring revenue increased to £55.4m (2005: £40.5m) and
now represents 70% of total Group revenue. Software and services
revenue was £31.4m (2005: £25.9m) and outsourcing revenue was
£48.3m (2005 £35.0m).
Adjusted proﬁt* before tax for the year ended 30 September 2006
was £10.9m (2005: £3.6m) and proﬁt before tax was £8.5m (2005:
£1.9m), representing adjusted EPS of 1.77p (2005: 0.40p) and basic
EPS of 1.28p (2005: 0.07p). The average number of shares used 
to calculate EPS in both 2006 and 2005 have been adjusted 
to reﬂect the shares issued during the rights issue completed on 
13 December 2006.
Operating cash ﬂow for the year ended September 2006 was £10.0m
(2005: £7.2m). 
* Adjusted proﬁt before tax is proﬁt before tax after adding back the
amortisation charge of £1.3m, a share based payments charge of
£0.9m and utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses
of £0.2m as analysed on page 13.
Organisation and employees
I would like to pay tribute to the outstanding teamwork and
commitment to clients displayed by our employees during the year.
I would also like to extend a warm welcome to our new recruits and
to partners’ employees who are working with us on client engagements.
During the year we increased our headcount from 1,262 to 1,403, and
with the integration of post year end acquisitions this will increase to
approximately 1,800. The Innovation Group continues to attract and
retain some of the best people in the industry and we recognise them
as the foundation of our future success.
The Board 
There have been no Board changes since the approval of the last
financial statements. Chris Banks and David Thorpe continue as
non-executive directors and Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees respectively, and I remain as non executive Chairman
of the Board.
“
Recurring revenue
increased from £40.5m
in 2005 to £55.4m 
in 2006 and is now 70%
of total revenue.
” 6
In October 2006 the Group announced that Paul Smolinski would be
stepping down from his position as Group Finance Director in early
2007 to pursue interests more in line with his personal ambitions.
Paul has made a considerable contribution to the Group during the
past four and a half years, and I would like to take this opportunity
to thank him and to wish him well for the future. 
Outlook
The Group is well positioned as we enter 2007. The proportion of
recurring revenue has again increased, and we have clear visibility
of the milestones which drive the timing of our software licence
revenues in the second half of the year .
We have an extensive outsourcing client base and the pipelines
remain healthy in each geography. We are particularly excited about
our entry into outsourcing in the US. We anticipate organic growth
to continue in 2007 through our simple objective of delivering more
beneﬁts to more clients in more markets.
Software licence sales still remain attractive although they are 
difﬁcult to predict. Our ﬁve year relationship with IBM gives us the
platform to distribute our software products on a global basis and we
anticipate seeing further results from this partnership in the 2007
ﬁnancial year .
In summary, we aim to continue the momentum gained throughout
2006. Our business plan calls for further organic revenue growth
augmented by selected acquisitions. In addition, we plan to improve
productivity further over the full year and we look forward to the
future with optimism.
Geoff Squire, OBE
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT continued
We anticipate organic
growth to continue in 
2007 through our simple
objective of delivering
more beneﬁts to more
clients in more markets.
”
“ 7
Innovation Group have worked closely with 
us and offer our customers better choice in
their claims fulﬁlment whilst maintaining a
tight control over cost, delivering reduced
claim lifecycle and better customer service.
Len Hope, National Claims Manager
Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited, UK
“
”
QUALITY AND 
PROFESSIONALISM  8
We have had an excellent year in 2006 with good momentum going
into 2007. Revenue has grown by 23% organically, increasing to 31%
including the acquisitions during the year . Recurring revenue, which
gives us visibility and predictability, reached 70% of total revenue as
dependence on one-off licences continued to reduce. Adjusted proﬁts
have increased from £3.6m in 2005 to £10.9m in 2006 and 69% of
these profits are derived from outsourcing. We have had seven
signiﬁcant new licence deals, including extensions, often with support
from our partner IBM. The majority of our growth in 2006 has come
from existing clients as we extend our products and services to them.
Our client base is made up of over 120 major brands. The five
acquisitions completed during the year have strengthened our
geographic reach and will bring further cross selling opportunities.
We also continue to generate cash, which we have used this year to
help fund these acquisitions. In summary the success in 2006 helps
underpin the future for our Group. 
Strategic update
2006 has been our ﬁrst year of operating as a single client-centric
organisation, aiming to offer outsourcing and software capabilities in
each of our geographic markets and I am delighted with the progress
that has been made. 
We have assembled a wide portfolio of important assets comprising
high quality software technology for both policy and claims
administration, and a set of business processes for the handling of
many aspects of back ofﬁce functions for insurers and risk carriers.
We offer these assets either as a software and service implementation
project, or as an outsourced service. This choice enables our clients
to embark on lower risk, lower cost transformations and provides
them with the opportunity to gain a high impact return on investment.
Our focus is now to make these services available to a wider client
audience. 
Market drivers
The global insurance industry is in a state of transition, driven
principally by technology and the growth of the internet and regulatory
change. It is facing increased underwriting risks, a highly competitive
landscape, complicated sales channels and demanding customers.
These combined factors have led to the need to reduce costs and
become operationally efﬁcient and are fuelling the demand for the
outsourcing of business processes (including claims handling) by
insurance companies. 
We are experiencing buoyant market conditions. Clients are looking
for vendors who can offer transformational solutions through the
use of software and outsourcing. We have seen this trend increase
in recent years and see growing opportunities. 
Market risks
Under the new EU reporting requirements, the Board is obliged to
comment on the risk factors facing the business. As with any business,
risks may affect the Group, its results and the Board’s ability to deliver
on its strategy. 
One of the key risk factors faced by the Group is the timing of software
milestones and project delivery relative to the Group’s financial
calendar. This risk has reduced over the last year because of our
growing proportion of recurring revenue, but the timing and recognition
of licence revenue is difﬁcult to predict and during 2007 we have
contractual licence milestones which will weight the licence revenue
recognition to the second half of the year . 
Another main risk area is our clients’ strategy and in particular any
changes in their approach to technology or outsourcing. By
concentrating on service level agreements and ensuring we provide
excellent value we are doing our best to minimise this risk. 
The Group’s footprint within certain territories compared to competitors
can also be a risk. Our acquisitions during the year and the acquisitions
in the US post year end have further extended our scale and geographic
reach, thereby improving our competitive position.
The Group’s results are exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility as
approximately 75% of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group’s South African operation faces unique regulatory challenges
with the Black Economic Empowerment rules. However, we are looking
at solutions which will help us address these issues to further extend
our product range and take advantage of the unique opportunities
available in this part of the world.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
2006 has been our ﬁrst
year of operating as a
single client-centric
organisation, aiming to
offer outsourcing and
software capabilities in
each of our geographic
markets.
“
” 9
Geographic review
South Africa, which provides many of the elements of the insurance
value chain on an outsourced basis, saw revenue growth of 35% (all
organic) with revenue of £31.1m for the year ended 30 September
2006 (2005: £23.1m). The market in South Africa is buoyant. 
In Europe, revenue has grown by 72% (46% organically) to £28.1m
(2005: £16.3m).
In the UK, we have a software business servicing tier one clients as
well as claims outsourcing for motor and household. UK revenues
have grown by 50% (49% organically) to £20.2m (2005: £13.5m).
During the year a major client extended the use of a Policy licence
and entered into an agreement to use the Group’s Policy Services
software. Interest in the Group’s offerings continue to increase and
subsequent to the year end, two signiﬁcant new software deals were
signed as well as three new outsourcing contracts, which help to
underpin our expectations for 2007. There was signiﬁcant growth in
outsourcing in the UK (on the household side) as we continued to
extend business with existing clients.
In Germany, we have seen revenue growth of 182% (organically 35%)
in 2006 to £7.9m (2005: £2.8m). During 2006 we have transformed the
business from a single revenue stream (motor) through acquisition
and internal investment in a multiple service provider to the insurance
and ﬂeet industry. The acquisition of Service Konzept has already
delivered two signiﬁcant clients as a result of cross-selling and we
have extended the product range of Service Konzept since acquisition.
In North America, the largest insurance market in the world, revenue
has decreased by 9% (all organic) to £15.3m (2005: £16.7m) in 2006.
This reduction is due to the discontinued public sector business
which contributed £1.8m of revenue in 2005. All revenue is currently
software related. 
In the US we have established our brand over the last three years
through investment in our software in order to improve our capability
in the US market. This has helped us during 2006, as a North
American client has started to implement both the Group’s Policy and
Claims systems. We also continue to work closely with IBM on
targeting tier one and tier two insurance companies.
The enhanced credibility arising from these initiatives has given us
the conﬁdence to enter into the outsourcing market in North America,
resulting in the recent acquisitions of First Notice Systems (FNS)
and Sureplan US.
In Asia Paciﬁc, revenue grew by 7% (organically -6%) to £5.1m (2005:
£4.8m). We saw good growth in Australia with outsourcing revenue
increasing by 12% and software increasing by 25% year on year . Japan
has declined as one of our clients has completed its implementation.
In 2006 we had two signiﬁcant software wins in Australia. The most
signiﬁcant win was to provide the software for one of the leading
direct insurers in Australia and will be worth approximately £4.5m over
ﬁve years. The outsourcing operation continues to gain momentum
and the acquisition of Sureplan Australia enables us to expand our
offerings to the leasing and ﬂeet sectors. Sureplan’s largest client
signed a contract extension at the end of the ﬁnancial year providing
revenues through to the end of the ﬁnancial year 2009.
Summary
We aim to continue to build our recurring revenue base, which will
further increase visibility within the business. We have made a good
start to our 2007 ﬁnancial year with two UK software wins as well as
several new outsourcing contracts. Organic growth remains an
important focus as we continue to cross-sell our products into
different geographies and in particular expand the outsourcing service
across North America, following the acquisition of Sureplan US and
completion of FNS, which is expected imminently. Our relationship
with IBM also remains a focus as we concentrate on a select number
of potential joint targets. 
We will continue to look to selectively consolidate smaller players who
can add capability into existing regions and niche operators who can
provide new products to enhance the current portfolio. 
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive
Adjusted proﬁts have
increased from £3.6m 
in 2005 to £10.9m in 
2006 and 69% of these
proﬁts are derived 
from outsourcing. 
“
” We partnered with Innovation Group because 
their technology solution aligns itself with what 
Aviva Canada clearly believes is important to 
our customer – efﬁcient and effective service in 
a once and done process – in an environment 
ﬂexible enough to improve work processes 
along the way.
Greg Somerville, Executive Vice President, 
Claims and Reinsurance
Aviva Canada
“
”
SHARED VISION – 
CUSTOMER FOCUS
10 11
Results
Total revenue for the year grew by 31% to £79.7m (2005: £60.9m). The
increase comprised growth of 38% in our recurring outsourcing
revenue (2006: £48.3m, 2005: £35.0m), alongside growth of 20% in
software revenues (2006: £31.4m, 2005: £25.9m). 
The underlying revenue performance of the Group improved over the
year with the second half-year period being stronger than the ﬁrst,
continuing the trend shown last year . Revenue in the ﬁrst six months
of the year was £38.5m (H1 2005: £28.8m) and increased to £41.2m
(H2 2005: £32.2m) in the second six months. This growth was driven
by increased levels of outsourcing revenues (H1 2006: £22.9m, H2
2006: £25.4m). Software revenue remained consistent throughout
the year (H1 2006: £15.6m, H2 2006: £15.7m). This resulted in adjusted
proﬁt* for the Group of £5.2m and £5.7m in the ﬁrst and second halves
of the year respectively.
For the year as a whole, proﬁt before tax was £8.5m (2005: £1.9m).
Adjusted proﬁt* was £10.9m (2005: £3.6m). Within this there was, as
anticipated, continued improvement in the outsourcing division, which
recorded an adjusted proﬁt of £7.5m (2005: £4.7m). The improvement
in software proﬁtability, an adjusted proﬁt for the year of £3.4m (2005:
adjusted loss of £1.1m), reﬂected the improved level of licence sales
year on year . Adjusted EPS was 1.77p (2005: 0.40p) and basic earnings
per share was 1.28p (2005: 0.07p). 
* Adjusted proﬁt before tax is proﬁt before tax after adding back the
amortisation charge of £1.3m, a share based payments charge of
£0.9m and utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses
of £0.2m as analysed on page 13. References to adjusted proﬁt reﬂect
the Directors’ view that this is an important measure for their own and
shareholders’ assessment of the Group’s underlying performance.
Costs
The Group’s gross margin has improved from 44.6% in 2005 to 47.4%
in 2006, due to a change in the overall sales mix.
Cost of sales has increased for both the software and outsourcing
divisions, in line with revenue growth.
Administrative expenses for 2006 of £30.4m increased from £26.1m
in 2005. £1.7m was attributable to additional operating costs from
acquisitions and £1.3m of the increase was due to the amortisation
of acquired intangibles. The balance of £1.3m is broadly due to
increased staff numbers and growth in our existing Group companies. 
Taxation 
The Group tax charge of £1.6m (2005: £1.4m) arose primarily due to
proﬁts being generated in locations (principally South Africa and
Germany) that cannot be offset against losses in other countries.
The Group continues to carry forward signiﬁcant tax losses in the
UK and US to offset against proﬁts arising in these countries. 
Cash ﬂow and ﬁnancing
The Group continues to be cash generative and at an operating level
generated a cash inﬂow of £10.0m (2005: £7.2m). As a Group we had
set positive cash inﬂow as one of our key objectives and this result
reflects the underlying strength of our business. The continued
growth of our outsourcing business and the higher volume of claims
that we settle on behalf of our clients also increased our cash balance
across the year. Consequently, approximately £3.8m of the inﬂow
was attributable to an increase in amounts due to repairers and
other third parties and funds held to settle future claims administered
by the Group. 
The year-end cash balance of £19.0m included approximately £8.8m
of cash (2005: £5.0m) representing amounts due to repairers and
funds held to settle future claims.
Cash held and available for use within the business in our South
African operation continues to be subject to government imposed
exchange controls, however this does not adversely affect us either
on a day to day basis, or in any of our strategic plans. Cash held in
South Africa (excluding amounts held to settle future claims) as at
30 September 2006 totalled approximately £4.3m (2005: £2.6m).
The Group’s debt of £11.0m (2005: £5.8m) at the year end primarily
relates to £4.3m borrowed as a mortgage on our properties in
Whiteley, UK, and a £5.7m (€8.1m) bank loan that was obtained for
the acquisition of ServiceKonzept AG, due to be repaid in full by
December 2009. 
Accordingly at year end the Group held net funds of £8.0m compared
to £14.0m in 2005. Excluding amounts due to repairers and funds held
to settle future claims referred to above, the Group ended the year
with a cash neutral balance sheet.
Investment activity
During 2006 we continued to consolidate smaller players and add
capability into existing regions via strategic and tactical acquisitions
to further expand our outsourcing service. 
In January 2006 we acquired Service Konzept AG in Germany for
consideration comprising a combination of cash and shares totalling
€14m (approximately £9.7m) which includes £4.1m contingent on
the co-founders remaining with the business for three years following
acquisition. Service Konzept is a leading independent supplier of damage
assessment services to the household insurance industry in Germany.
Service Konzept has contributed approximately £4.0m to outsourcing
revenues in the ﬁnancial year since acquisition. On the same day, the
Group also acquired 100% of the share capital of CMC Deutschland
Limited for a total cost of £0.1m. CMC Deutschland provides outsourcing
services for the leasing market. Both of these acquisitions complement
our existing Motor outsourcing presence in Germany.
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW 12
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued
In May 2006, we also acquired the trade and assets of Sureplan
Australia Pty for AU$7.75m (approximately £3.3m). Sureplan is a
provider of outsourced accident and risk management solutions to
the automotive and leasing and self insured ﬂeet sectors in Australia.
This acquisition further strengthened Australia’s outsourcing offering
and widened its client base. 
In June 2006, we acquired Prophit Share Limited for £0.6m in shares.
Prophit Share is a specialist in claims leakage business intelligence for
the insurance industry. With this acquisition we have acquired claims
leakage experts in addition to the management information tool.
In July 2006, we acquired AMK Associates Limited, a specialist in
providing service, maintenance and repair data to the motor ﬂeet
industry. Consideration was £0.6m in cash and a further £1.4m in
deferred consideration dependent on the profits of the acquired
business for the year ended 30 September 2007. 
Post period end investment activity
In October 2006, we acquired Sureplan International Pty Limited, an
Australian holding company, which owns a 51% controlling interest
in Sureplan USA Inc., which is a supplier of outsourced claims
management services to the vehicle leasing industry in the US. This
acquisition was for a cash consideration of US$6.5m (approximately
£3.5m) and deferred consideration, capped at a maximum value of
US$7.5m (approximately £4m), dependent on future proﬁt targets
being achieved. The acquisition was financed via existing cash
resources and a loan from Royal Bank of Scotland of £3.0m. This
acquisition enables us to establish an outsourcing capability for
motor insurance in the US, thereby extending our presence beyond
the (Group’s) existing provision of Policy and Claims software.
In November 2006, we acquired 68.72% of Holmwoods and Back and
Manson (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd (“HBM”), a supplier of travel insurance
administration and insurance consulting services in South Africa, for
a cash consideration of ZAR 70.9m (approximately £5.5m), which was
met from the Group’s existing cash resources. In addition, there exists
a put option, exercisable at the discretion of a minority shareholder
by no later than 31 October 2009, for the Group to acquire an additional
30.58% of HBM from such minority shareholder on the same valuation
basis as the present transaction, limited to a maximum additional
consideration of ZAR 66.15m (approximately £4.6m). This acquisition
enables us to extend our outsourcing product range to travel claims.
On 2 November 2006 the Group announced the proposed acquisition
of First Notice Systems, Inc., a leading provider of claim reporting
outsourcing services and software to the property and casualty
insurance market in the US for US$51.6m (approximately £27.1m).
This acquisition is a key component of the Group’s strategy for achieving
the objective of building an outsourced business in the US. FNS also
gives us critical mass in the US outsourcing market and its broad
insurance client base will give us signiﬁcant opportunities to market
and sell the Group’s products and services. The acquisition is expected
to be completed on 22 December 2006.
The acquisition of FNS was funded by way of a 2 for 5 Rights Issue of
180,600,771 new Ordinary Shares at 21 pence per share, to raise
approximately £37.9m (before expenses). The rights issue was
successfully completed on 13 December 2006 with a 95% take-up. 
Foreign Exchange
Approximately 75% of the Group’s revenue is generated outside the
UK and is denominated in currencies other than sterling. The Group,
therefore, has exposure to translation risk when the accounts of
overseas subsidiaries are converted into sterling. The Group does not
hedge against this translation risk. The Group is most affected by
movements in the US Dollar, the South African Rand and the Euro
relative to Sterling. In previous years, the combined effect of these
on the Group’s trading results has been broadly neutral; however
this year, the impact of the movement in the South African Rand in
particular has reduced revenues and proﬁts by approximately £1.4m
and £0.2m respectively.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
This set of full year results is the ﬁrst that the Group has been required
to report in accordance with IFRS. As a result of this, we have restated
the comparative ﬁgures for the year ended 30 September 2005 and
reconciliations that set out the main differences between the amounts
previously presented under UK GAAP and the amounts presented
under IFRS are shown on pages 74 to 76.
The Group has utilised the following exemptions available on ﬁrst
time adoption of IFRS:
• the Group has elected not to apply the provisions of IFRS 2, ‘Share
Based Payments’ to options granted on or before 7 November 2002,
which had not vested at 1 January 2005; 
• the Group has elected not to retrospectively apply the provisions of
IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’, to acquisitions that occurred prior
to the Group’s transition date of 1 October 2004. Therefore, business
combinations prior to this date have not been restated; and
• the Group has applied the exemption in IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption”
to reset cumulative exchange differences on net investment in
foreign operations to zero at the date of transition. 
As with most companies within our industry, the most signiﬁcant
areas of consideration are associated with differences in accounting
for share based payments, development expenditure and acquisitions,
particularly goodwill and intangible assets. We have not capitalised
any historic development expenditure. 
Paul Smolinski
Group Finance Director 13
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Turnover 79,651 60,916
Adjusted proﬁt before tax* 10,947 3,566
Proﬁt before tax 8,466 1,914
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 1.77 0.40
Basic earnings per share (pence) 1.28 0.07
Note: * Adjusted proﬁt before tax is calculated as:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Proﬁt before tax 8,466 1,914
Add back
Amortisation 1,295 94
Share based payment 928 1,239
Loss on disposal of operations — 54
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 258 265
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 10,947 3,566
References to adjusted proﬁt and adjusted earnings per share reﬂect the Directors’ view that this is an important measure for their own,
and shareholders’, assessment of the Group’s underlying performance.
GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD OF REVENUE
£28.1m
(2005: £16.3m)
Europe
35%
North 
America
19%
South
Africa
39%
Asia
Paciﬁc
7%
£15.3m
(2005: £16.7m)
£31.1m
(2005: £23.1m)
£5.1m
(2005: £4.8m) Working with Innovation Group for the last ﬁve years
has proved to be an enlightening experience as 
professionalism and integrity are their key priorities.
They have excelled in achieving our contract sales
targets for 2006 and have added signiﬁcant value 
proposing new product ideas for 2007.
Hassan Salie, Sales and Marketing Manager
Volkswagen of South Africa
“
”
BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS
14 15
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The directors of the Company and their responsibilities within the
Group are set out below:
Geoff Squire OBE (59), (Non-Executive Chairman)
Geoff Squire has been involved in the information technology industry for
over 40 years. In June 2001, Geoff joined the Board of The Innovation
Group as a non-executive director and in May 2002 he became Chairman
of the Board. He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Geoff
is also Chairman of Kognitio Limited and a Director of Informatica
Corporation and several privately held companies. Geoff held positions
with ICL and CACI Consultancy Group before joining Oracle Corporation
where he ultimately became president of worldwide operations. He
joined OpenVision in 1994 as the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of its newly formed international subsidiary. He became Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer of the company in 1995 and took the company public on NASDAQ
prior to its merger with VERITAS in 1997. Geoff executed the merger
with Seagate software and grew the combined entity to over a billion
dollars. He remained as Vice Chairman until the Symantec VERITAS
merger in 2005. Geoff previously served as a director of the Cranﬁeld IT
Institute from 1989 to 1991 and was president of the Computing Services
& Software Association during 1994 and 1995. In September 1993, he was
awarded an honourary Doctorate of Science by Oxford Brookes University
for his outstanding contribution to the information technology profession.
In recognition of his services to the information technology industry,
Geoff was awarded an OBE in 1997. 
Hassan Sadiq (38), (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)
Hassan Sadiq joined the Group as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer following the
acquisition of Cosy plc in October 2001 and was appointed Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer in March 2003. Hassan has held numerous senior
management positions in companies involved in software development
and distribution. In 1994, together with several partners, Hassan
created Chatsworth Systems, where he assumed the role of Managing
Director . In 1998, Hassan was appointed CEO of New Planet Solutions,
part of the Cosy Group, where he played a key role in driving the ﬁrm’s
business and technology vision, which led the company into its ﬁrst
vertical market as an e-Claims Insurance specialist organisation. 
Paul Smolinski (42), (Group Finance Director) 
Paul Smolinski joined the Group in May 2002 from Compaq UK & Ireland
Limited, where, since 1999, he held the position of Finance and
Administration Director with overall control of the finance and
administration team for the UK subsidiary of Compaq Inc. employing
3500 employees and with turnover in excess of $3 billion prior to the
merger with Hewlett Packard in May 2002. Paul managed a department
of 220 staff and was responsible for ﬁnancial control, business ﬁnance
and was a board member of each of the Compaq UK & Ireland's six
subsidiaries. Prior to becoming Group Finance Director, Paul held various
positions within Compaq in the UK, Europe and the US from 1990 to
1999. Paul qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant in 1990 and became a
Chartered Director in 2005. In October 2006 Paul Smolinski announced
his resignation and will leave the Group in late January 2007.
Chris Banks (56), 
(Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman)
Chris Banks joined the Group in June 2003. He is the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and the senior Independent Director. Chris has over
twenty-five years experience in the management and financial
development of leading technology companies and experience of
providing leadership and support to organisations through non-executive
directorships. Chris was the Finance Director at CMG plc and a core
member of the management team through the company's ﬂotation
where he was responsible for a full range of ﬁnance functions. Prior to
joining CMG, Chris was the Finance Director of The BIS Group. Chris
became a Non-Executive Director of Detica Group plc in 2000 and
currently serves as senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of its
Audit Committee. In April 2006, Chris was appointed as a non-Executive
Director of Bespak plc and chairs its Audit Committee. He is also a
trustee of The Barbara Ward Children's Foundation. He qualiﬁed as a
Chartered Accountant in 1973 and is a member of the Association of
Corporate Treasurers.
David Thorpe (56), 
(Non-Executive Director, Remuneration Committee Chairman)
David Thorpe joined the Group in July 2003. He is Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. David retired from EDS in 2003, where he
had held a series of senior positions culminating as the head of their
European Business with responsibility for operations in 20 countries
and revenue of $4bn. Before joining EDS, David was at Bull Information
Systems, where he was a member of the UK Board and Managing
Director of Bull’s largest operating unit, Systems Integration and Services.
He is a member of The Chartered Institute of Public Finance and
Accountancy and has over 25 years experience in the IT software,
services and outsourcing market. David is currently a director of VT
Group Plc, Isoft Plc and Morgan Chambers plc. In 2004, he was also
appointed as Chairman of the Race Course Association and a director
of the British Horse Racing Board.
Geoff Squire OBE Hassan Sadiq Paul Smolinski Chris Banks David Thorpe 16
Ed Ossie, (President)
Ed Ossie has extensive US and international operational experience in
software solutions. From 1996 and until its acquisition by the Group in
July 2001, Ed was President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of MTW. Prior
to MTW he worked for Texas Instruments for 19 years. In the software
division of Texas Instruments he was Vice President and General
Manager for the Americas. In this role Ed was instrumental in leading
the division’s revenue growth, staff expansion and customer satisfaction.
Ed resigned as director of the Board on 21 November 2005.
Eric Wadsworth, (Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer)
Eric Wadsworth joined the Group in May 2001 as a result of the Group's
acquisition of the South African based Corporate Warranty Administrators
(Proprietary) Limited ("CWA"). Eric has been with CWA since 1997 and
was appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Group’s South African
business in May 2001. He was appointed to the role of Executive Director
responsible for the Group’s Outsourcing Division in April 2004. Since
November 2005, Eric has been tasked with developing the regions
globally as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer for the Group. He has extensive
experience in the insurance market, most notably in the area of supply
chain management in insurance related processes. Before joining CWA,
Eric held the position of Finance Executive at Aegis Insurance where he
was responsible for the financial and procurement divisions. Eric
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1988 and has been actively
involved as a Director with Read Educational Trust, an NGO focused on
enhancing educational and reading skills in South Africa. Eric resigned
as Director of the Board on 21 November 2005.
Shaun Gwilliam, (Software Solutions Director) 
Shaun began his career in software development in 1986 with Rank
Xerox Group. In 1987, he joined Sprint Computer Systems and later
Areapower developing software in automatic test equipment and road
haulage and management systems. In 1990, he joined Wayland systems
where he was responsible for the development of their pioneering
telephone call management systems. In 1995, he joined Traderights
where he managed the development of their EDIfact, SEC ﬁlings and
early e-mail systems for distribution in both the UK and North America.
In 1996, Shaun formed Premier Business Associates, where his focus
was to develop their document management system for the ﬁnancial
services industry. This company was acquired by ICL in 1997 and Shaun
was employed as technical design authority on a number of high proﬁle
government projects. In 2000, Shaun joined New Planet Solutions as
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer and was employed to develop the technical
platform for motor claims solutions in the insurance industry which
was subsequently delivered to a tier 1 insurer. This company was
acquired by the Group in November 2001, where this responsibility
continued until early 2006 when Shaun was given responsibility for the
Group product development of the policy and claims solutions.
Andy Labrot, (Chief Technology Ofﬁcer)
Andy Labrot joined the Group in July 2001 following the Group’s
acquisition of MTW in that year. Andy leads the Group's R&D efforts
globally and drives the evolution of our products based on continuous
customer feedback, industry evolution and best practices. With more
than 20 years in the IT industry, Andy’s experience with service based
architectures, and the development of distributed systems, has guided
the Group’s technical strategies and supported customer implementation
efforts. From 1981 to 1993 Andy led research development and
implementation efforts for Aetna, IBM and Hartford Steam Boiler, during
which he was among the ﬁrst technologists to build distributed systems
with CICS technology. He was Chief Technologist for Texas Instruments
Software Division's ﬁeld operations from 1993 to 1997 and most recently
was Chief Technology Ofﬁcer for MTW where he led the development of
the company’s component based policy system, and co-authored the
patented PROgression
®
Method, which continues to be leveraged
worldwide.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 17
The directors present their annual report and the audited ﬁnancial
statements for the year ended 30 September 2006.
Activities
The principal activities of the Group during the year were the provision
of insurance software and outsourcing on an international basis.
Review of the business and future developments
The results for the year are set out on page 30 and the ﬁnancial
position is set out on page 31. Further information on the review of
the business and the directors’ expectation for the development of the
Group’s activities for the coming year are given in the Chairman’s
Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement and Finance Director’s Review
on pages 5 to 12.
Dividends
The directors do not propose a ﬁnal dividend for the year (2005: nil).
Directors and their interests
A list of the present directors of the Company is given on pages 15 and
16. On 21 November 2005 Ed Ossie, Steve Scott and Eric Wadsworth
ceased to be members of the Board but continued with senior
management roles within the Group. As previously announced Paul
Smolinski will leave the Group on 31 January 2007.
The interests in the Company of the directors in ofﬁce at the year end
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 28.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent.
Chris Banks is currently the senior Non-Executive Director.
Geoff Squire and Hassan Sadiq, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 5 March
2007. The Board believes that these directors should be re-elected
as their individual participation and experience within the industry
and markets the Group operates adds considerably to the Group’s
overall ability to deliver on its objectives.
Substantial shareholdings
At 11 December 2006 the Company had been notiﬁed of the following
shareholdings of 3% or more of the Company’s share capital.
Ordinary shares % of capital
M&G Investment Management 43,653,094 9.67
BlackRock MLIM 42,465,232 9.41
John Morley 41,000,000 9.08
GAM London Ltd UK 40,196,229 8.90
Jupiter Asset Management 23,163,796 5.13
Artemis Investment Management Limited 22,474,825 4.98
Legal & General Investment Management 15,202,555 3.37
AXA Framlington Group Limited 14,150,193 3.13
F&C Management Ltd 13,572,224 3.01
Research and development
The Group continues to be active in its research and development
of software and services and intends to remain so for the foreseeable
future. All such expenditure has been expensed in the year.
Environmental policies
The Group recognises that it has a corporate responsibility to carry out
its operations whilst minimising environmental impacts. The Group
aims to comply with all applicable environmental legislation, to prevent
pollution and to minimise environmental damage occurring as a result
of its activities.
Employee involvement
Information on the Group is provided through internal newsletters and
notices and by the circulation of press releases. Regular meetings are
held with employees to discuss operations, sales, product development
and the ﬁnancial progress of the business. During the year, the Group
initiated an independent survey to gather feedback from all employees
the results of which will be communicated during the forthcoming
ﬁnancial year .
Where appropriate, employees are also encouraged to become involved
in the success of the Company through share option schemes.
Training programmes for staff continue to focus on technical, consulting
and people skills to meet the needs of a high growth business. An
induction programme is in place for all new joiners.
Disabled employees
The Group is committed to a policy of recruitment and promotion on
the basis of aptitude and ability without discrimination. The Group
gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled
persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulﬁlled
by a handicapped or disabled person. Where existing employees
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to
provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions
and to provide training and career development and promotion to
disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Supplier payment policy
It is company policy to agree and clearly communicate the terms of
payment as part of the commercial arrangement negotiated with
suppliers and then to pay according to these terms based upon the
satisfactory completion of contractual obligations and timely receipt
of an accurate invoice. Trade creditor days of the Group for the year
ended 30 September 2006 were 44 days (2005: 42 days), calculated in
accordance with the requirements set down in the Companies Act 1985.
Treasury policy
Treasury activities are managed under policies and procedures
approved and monitored by the Board. These are designed to reduce
the ﬁnancial risks faced by the Group, which relate primarily to interest
rate risk, liquidity risk and currency risk. Details are given in note 24
to the ﬁnancial statements.
Events since the balance sheet date
On 25 October 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of
Sureplan International Pty Ltd. Sureplan International Pty Ltd owns a
51% controlling interest in Sureplan USA Inc., which supplies outsourced
claims management services to the vehicle leasing industry in the
United States of America.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 18
On 1 November 2006, the Group acquired 68.72% of the share capital
of Holmswood and Back and Manson (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd for a
total cash consideration, including acquisition costs, of approx.
£5.45m (ZAR 70.9m). Holmswood and Back and Manson (South
Africa) (Pty) Ltd, through its subsidiary, is the leading provider of
travel insurance administration and insurance consulting services
in South Africa.
Further details of both of these acquisitions are given in note 28 to
these ﬁnancial statements.
On 2 November 2006, the Group announced the acquisition of First
Notice Systems, Inc., a leading provider of claim reporting outsourcing
services and software to the property and casualty insurance
markets in the US. The total cash consideration of $51,550,000
(£27,100,000) was funded entirely by the rights issue detailed below.
On 13 December 2006, the parent company, The Innovation Group
plc, completed a rights issue. This rights issue was undertaken on
the basis of 2 new ordinary shares for every pre-existing 5 ordinary
shares. The total number of shares issued as part of the rights issue
was 180,660,771 at a price of 21 pence per share. This increased the
number of issued shares in the Company from 451,501,928 to
632,102,699.
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to one or more of its directors
against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties,
subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 1985. Such
qualifying third party indemnity provision was in force throughout
the period and remains in force as at the date of approving the
directors’ report.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put
to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving
the directors’ report are listed on page 88. Having made enquiries of
fellow directors and of the company’s auditors, each of these directors
conﬁrms that:
  to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which
the company’s auditors are unaware; and
  each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably
be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are
aware of that information.
Authority to purchase own shares
On 6 March 2006 the shareholders granted the Company authority to
purchase a maximum of 22,447,121 (being 5% of issued share capital
at that date) of its own shares. This authority remains in place at 
30 September 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
Jane Hall
Company Secretary
18 December 2006
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 19
The Innovation Group is committed to high standards of corporate
governance. As required, this statement describes how the Group has
applied the principles of the Revised Combined Code (“the Code”)
published by the FSA in July 2003.
The Board
At the start of the year the Board of Directors comprised ﬁve executive
directors and three non-executive directors (including a non-executive
Chairman) as detailed below. As described on pages 17 and 18 with
effect from 21 November 2005 the Board has comprised two executive
directors and three non-executive directors. This change, which
enables the executive team to operate more effectively, also ensures
that the structure of the Board aligns itself with the recommendations
of the Code, which for large companies requires a board structure
where at least half the members of the Board excluding the Chairman
are independent non-executive directors.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management
of the Group and for its system of corporate governance. The Board
normally meets at least twice each quarter and prior to signiﬁcant
decisions being taken. During the year there were seven scheduled
Board meetings and four Board calls. In advance of each meeting, each
member receives documentation concerning the Group’s operational
performance, an update on legal matters and other information to
enable decisions to be taken on the resolutions proposed. These
resolutions are made with reference to a formal schedule of matters
reserved for Board approval, which include:
  the Group’s long term objectives, commercial strategy and
related plans;
  approval of interim and ﬁnal ﬁnancial statements and reports
  the Group’s acquisition and divestment policy and any transactions
arising;
  approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration
of signiﬁcant ﬁnancing matters;
  approval of all circulars, listing particulars and press releases
concerning matters decided by the Board;
  the approval of the annual budgets; and
  matters concerning the Board and its committees’ membership
and terms of reference.
Operational management of the Group is delegated to the executive
directors and senior management team who meet regularly to discuss
and approve operational matters, again under a schedule of matters
reserved for this forum. These matters include project delivery,
maintaining customer relationships and initial due diligence on
mergers and acquisitions.
After careful review, giving particular consideration to the provision
of the Combined Code in respect of the independence of a Chairman,
the Board has concluded that the non-executive directors comprising
the Chairman, Geoff Squire (notwithstanding his role as non-executive
chairman), the Senior Independent Director, Chris Banks, and David
Thorpe are independent of management in both character, judgement
and opinion. In coming to this assessment, the Board has taken into
consideration the criteria contained in the Revised Combined Code
which are whether the director:
  has been an employee of the Group within the last ﬁve years;
  has, or has had within the last three years, a material business
relationship with the Group;
  has received or receives additional remuneration from the
Group apart from a director’s fee;
  has close family ties with any of the Group’s advisers, directors
or senior employees;
  holds cross-directorships or has signiﬁcant links with other
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
  represents a signiﬁcant shareholder; and
  has served on the board for more than nine years from the date
of their ﬁrst election.
All directors, in accordance with the Code, will submit themselves
for re-election at least once every three years, and at the ﬁrst annual
general meeting following their appointment as a director.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and are entitled in furtherance of their duties to take
independent professional advice at the Group’s expense, including
if necessary requesting the attendance of external legal counsel or
other professional advisors at Board meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
The Board has established three standing committees which deal
with speciﬁc aspects of the Group’s affairs as determined by their
written terms of reference which are available for inspection on the
Group’s website. The Board members, their respective committee
responsibilities and their attendance details, including those where
attendance has been by telephone, for the year ended 30 September
2006 are as follows:
Board and Audit Remuneration Nomination
Committee Board Committee Committee Committee
Membership (B) (A) (R) (N)
Total number of 
meetings in year 7 3 3 2
Geoff Squire
Non-Executive Chairman B*ARN* 7 3 3 2
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer B 7
Paul Smolinski
Group Finance Director B 7
Ed Ossie
Executive Director B 2^
Steve Scott
Executive Director B 2^
Eric Wadsworth
Executive Director B 2^
Chris Banks
Senior Non-Executive 
Director BA*RN 7 3 3 2
David Thorpe
Non-Executive Director BAR*N 7 2 3 2
* denotes chairman
^ Ed Ossie, Steve Scott and Eric Wadsworth attended two Board meetings prior
to their resignations on 21 November 2005.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Chris Banks (Chairman), Geoff Squire
and David Thorpe, who are, in the opinion of the Board, independent
of management. There were no changes to the Audit Committee
during the year. The Audit Committee meets prior to the release of
financial results to consider the interim and full year results
announcements. The external auditors, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and
Group Finance Director attend each meeting by invitation as required.
The committee also meets the auditors without the executive directors
present, and is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or
independent professional advice if it considers this necessary. The
company considers that due to its size it is appropriate for the
Chairman to remain a member of the Audit Committee, although this
falls outside of the recommendations of the Smith Guidance and the
Combined Code.
The purpose of the committee includes:
  assisting the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s
ﬁnancial reporting and internal control policies and procedures
for the identiﬁcation, assessment and reporting of risks;
  reviewing the Group’s internal and financial controls and
monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit and agreeing the
annual internal audit plan;
  considering matters associated with the external audit process
including its effectiveness, the independence and objectivity 
of external audit, the annual plan and associated fees, and
making recommendations to the Board as regards the
appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Group’s external
auditors;
  reviewing the appropriateness and consistency of accounting
policies and challenging where necessary the Group’s ﬁnancial
statements taking into account matters such as decisions
requiring a major element of judgement, the clarity of disclosures,
and compliance with accounting standards;
  reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in conﬁdence, raise
concerns about possible improprieties in ﬁnancial reporting or
other matters; and
  developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the
external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account
ethical guidance reporting to the board identifying areas of
improvement and recommendations.
During the year the Audit Committee met three times to fulﬁl these
responsibilities. At these meetings the Committee undertook the
following activities:
  reviewed the interim and annual results and reports including
a review of matters raised by the external auditor and areas of
judgement;
  reviewed the system of internal control in operation throughout
the group;
  reviewed and approved the Group’s approach to implementing
International Financial Reporting Standards;
  reviewed the internal audit function and concluded that current
arrangements are adequate;
  reviewed the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity
of the external auditor Ernst and Young LLP;
  reviewed and agreed the level of non-audit fees payable to the
external auditor;
  reviewed the Group’s compliance with the Combined Code and
Corporate Governance;
  reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it had continued
to operate in an effective manner and;
  reviewed the Group’s whistle blowing policy. 21
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises David Thorpe (Chairman),
Geoff Squire and Chris Banks who are, in the opinion of the Board,
independent of management. The Company considers that due to 
its size it is appropriate for the Chairman to remain a member of the
Remuneration Committee, although this falls outside the
recommendations of the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year to:
  consider and recommend to the Board the total individual
remuneration package of each executive director, the Chairman
and certain senior employees. No director plays a part in setting
their own remuneration;
  propose targets for any performance related pay schemes and
measure performance against those targets; and
  determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements,
service agreements for the executive directors, termination
payments and compensation commitments.
The Committee consults the Chairman about its proposals and has
access to professional advice from outside the Group as necessary.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 25 to 28 and
includes full details of the components of directors’ remuneration.
During the year the Remuneration Committee met three times to
fulﬁl these responsibilities. There were no changes to the members
of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Geoff Squire (Chairman),
Chris Banks and David Thorpe who are, in the opinion of the Board,
independent from management.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually and its key
responsibilities include:
  making recommendations to the Board as to its structure, size
and composition;
  preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for
any particular appointment;
  being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval
of the Board, candidates to ﬁll board vacancies as and when
they arise;
  reviewing succession planning processes with regard to both
Board and senior appointments;
  assessing and articulating the time needed to fulﬁl the role of
Chairman, and non-executive directors; and
  undertaking an annual performance evaluation to ensure that
all members of the board have devoted sufﬁcient time to their
duties.
During the year the Nomination Committee met twice to fulﬁl these
responsibilities. There were no changes to the Nomination Committee
during the year .
Following the resignation of the Group Finance Director, Paul Smolinski,
executive search consultants, Spencer Stuart have been appointed
to assist in ﬁnding a replacement. This process is progressing well
but the Group has appointed an interim Finance Director to allow for
the possibility that a successful candidate may not have joined prior
to Paul Smolinski’s departure.
Performance evaluation
The Code requires each company to conduct performance evaluations
of its board, committees and individual directors and to report on
these evaluations. Evaluations of the individual directors, the Board,
the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were performed
during the year through the use of tailored questionnaires. The results
of each questionnaire were reviewed and reported back to the Board
or relevant committee by the chairman of that body. In each case,
speciﬁc strengths and perceived weaknesses were highlighted and
discussed, and any resultant requirements documented.
The performance evaluation of each individual director, including the
Chairman, was also performed during the year by the completion by
each Board member and the Company Secretary of a series of
questionnaires. The results of these were communicated to the Board
by the Chairman, or in the case of the appraisal of the Chairman, by
the senior independent non-executive director noting any appropriate
actions that were required.
Communication with shareholders
The Board recognises the signiﬁcance of effective communication
with both institutional and private investors, and the need to respond
promptly to queries received. During the year the Group published
interim ﬁnancial statements, which are available to all shareholders
via the Group’s website (www.innovation-group.com). The website
also includes material presented at institutional investor meetings,
a library of all stock exchange notices issued by the Group and
other information on the Group such as press releases and contact
details.
During the year the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Group
Finance Director held presentations for, and attended meetings with,
analysts and institutional shareholders. The Annual General Meeting
is also used as a forum to introduce the directors to shareholders and
to take questions from investors. All non-executive directors attended
the Annual General Meeting held in 2006, including the senior
independent non-executive director. In addition the Chairman and
Senior Independent Director have notiﬁed themselves to all major
shareholders and offered themselves as an alternative point of
contact for any matters of concern. 22
The Directors meet the Group’s brokers to discuss items raised by
shareholders and feedback from the analysts attending the interim
and annual presentations is also collated by the Group’s advisors and
reviewed by the directors. The directors also receive copies of analyst
coverage as and when it is released.
Internal control and risk management
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the
Group’s system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
By its nature however, such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Board views risk management as integral to good business
practice and has designed its risk identiﬁcation and management
processes so as to be part of its normal review and decision making
activities. These include a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group with controls and
review processes designed to ensure effort and management time is
focused on the areas where attention is required. The Board is also
regularly updated on issues of importance through the Board meeting
documentation and determines appropriate actions as necessary.
As with any business, risk factors may affect the Group, its results
and the Board’s ability to deliver on its strategy. A list of some of the
main risk areas, not all of which are within the Directors’ control, is
given below:
  clients’ strategy and changes in their approach to technology
or outsourcing;
  timing of milestones and project delivery relative to the Group’s
ﬁnancial calendar;
  conversion of the sales pipeline and length of sales cycles;
  the Group’s footprint within a territory compared to competitors;
  litigation;
  long term product strategy;
  foreign exchange; and
  changes in legislation in a territory such as Black Economic
Empowerment legislation in South Africa.
Other factors may also affect the Group.
Key elements of the Group’s internal control system, targeted at
mitigating the above risks include:
  a clearly defined management structure and delegation of
authority to committees of the Board, executive committee and
business units;
  a detailed budgeting process culminating in approval by the Board;
  timely and accurate ﬁnancial reporting of historical results and
regular re-forecasting of future proﬁt and cash ﬂow performance;
  board information and meeting agendas linked to identiﬁed risks
to ensure review of progress in key risk areas;
  quality, knowledge and integrity of personnel maintained through
recruitment, training and communication activities;
  day to day hands-on involvement in selected business areas by
the executive directors; and
  use of internal audit and external professional advisors.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with
Turnbull guidance. It has been in place for the year under review and
up to the date of the approval of these ﬁnancial statements. The
Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee has reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control, including
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls, based on a review of
signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed and reports prepared by management, and
the internal and external auditors.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee and the Board consider auditor objectivity and
independence, ensuring, in particular, that this is not compromised
where the auditor provides non-audit services. It is the Group’s policy
to use the services of advisors other than the external auditors for
non-audit work where conﬂicts may arise for signiﬁcant new
assignments, but it is also recognised that in certain cases the
incumbent auditor is often best placed to provide a cost and time
efﬁcient service, in particular in areas such as tax advice and
compliance and due diligence. In order to safeguard and help ensure
independence the Chairman of the Audit Committee is consulted prior
to each major, non-audit engagement, where the use of the auditors
is proposed.
Going concern basis
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have formed a
judgement, at the time of approving the ﬁnancial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, the Directors have adopted the going concern
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises that to achieve our objectives over the long
term, sustainability of the environment, contributing to the local and
global communities, taking a responsible and positive approach to
employment practices and employees and generally building a
position as a respected corporate citizen are issues that cannot 
be overlooked.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 23
The Board also recognises that corporate social responsibility needs
to be considered as part of the Board’s strategy of actively managing
the risks faced by the business, its responsibilities to its clients and
stakeholders, as well as to its reputation.
The approach to corporate responsibility consequently covers three
key areas:
  governance, in which the Group has an established governance
framework compliant with the requirements of the Combined
Code for listed companies;
  employees and health and safety, where the aim is to have skilled
and motivated employees working in safe environments supported
through Group HR and health and safety policies; and
  the environment, community involvement and corporate conduct.
The Board as a whole is responsible for health and safety and
environmental matters however on a day to day basis these matters
are reported to the Group Finance Director.
The Board is supportive of environmental initiatives where these are
commercially viable, and has welcomed the recycling program started
by the Group’s UK business during the year .
Across the Group, the following have been identiﬁed as being areas
where its activities directly impact the environment:
  employee travel;
  water and energy consumption;
  waste management and use of hazardous materials;
  site management and good housekeeping; and
  materials used in its purchases of ﬁxed assets and consumables.
The Group also indirectly impacts the environment through the actions
of its suppliers, in particular where the outsourcing businesses
perform supply chain management services. In these cases, the
Group’s supply chain are required to ensure they comply with local
health and safety and environmental legislation.
In support of their local community, employees in the Group’s South
African business have continued during the year to support the
activities of Paradise Bend School through the organising of fund
raising, voluntary work and other similar events aimed at improving
living conditions and assisting in obtaining education for the charity’s
beneﬁciaries. 24
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. 
The directors are required to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each
ﬁnancial year, which present fairly the ﬁnancial position of the Company
and of the Group and the ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the
Company and of the Group for that period. In preparing those ﬁnancial
statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information;
  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc
requirements in IFRSs is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions
on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
  state that the Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial
statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure
that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the board
Jane Hall
Company Secretary
18 December 2006
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 25
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) comprises David
Thorpe (Chairman), Geoff Squire and Chris Banks who are, in the
opinion of the Board, independent of management. Their attendance
at meetings is shown on page 20. The terms of reference of the
Committee are available on the Group’s website at www.innovation-
group.com. As described in more detail in the Corporate Governance
report above, the Committee is responsible for recommending the
remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman to the
Board. In addition, the Committee also reviews the remuneration of
the senior management team.
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants,
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC), to advise on all aspects
of senior executive remuneration. NBSC has no other connection
with the Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and
employee remuneration. The Chief Executive also provides guidance
to the Committee on remuneration of the senior executive team at the
invitation of the Committee.
The remuneration of each of the non-executive directors is determined
by the executive members of the Board within the limits set out in the
Articles of Association. Non-executive directors are not eligible to
participate in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any
pension from the Group.
Remuneration policies
The Group’s remuneration policy which applies to the year under
review, and is intended to apply in all future years, seeks to provide
remuneration in a form and amount to attract, motivate and retain
directors of the high calibre needed to maintain the Group’s position
as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to
shareholders. In line with the Code’s recommendations, a substantial
proportion of the Executive Directors’ remuneration is delivered
through short and long term performance related pay schemes.
There are three main elements of the remuneration package for
executive directors:
1. base salary, pension scheme contributions and other beneﬁts
2. annual performance related remuneration
3. long term performance related remuneration in the form of
share options and performance share plan (“PSP”) incentives
(see audited section below).
During the year the Committee undertook a review of the ongoing
appropriateness of each element of remuneration and is proposing
a new share incentive arrangement for shareholder approval at the
AGM at the same time as amending the existing PSP . Full details will
be contained in the notice of AGM.
Base Salaries
The salary levels of individual executive directors are reviewed annually
during the ﬁrst quarter of each ﬁnancial year by the Committee with
account taken of individual performance, skill and pay levels for
similar roles in comparable international computer and software
companies and the wider market. In setting annual levels of executive
pay, the Committee is mindful of annual pay increases awarded to the
wider non-executive population. 
A review of executive directors’ base salaries has been performed and
as a result the base salary for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Hassan
Sadiq was increased to £285,000. The Remuneration Committee
consider this increase appropriate based on the revenue, proﬁt and
underlying operating performance of the Group in 2006; the execution
of the key strategy of entering the USA outsourcing market; the
absence of a salary increase in 2005; and the results of a detailed
review by independent consultants of comparative remuneration of
top quality CEO’s in this market.
Pension & Beneﬁts
The executive directors participate in a defined contribution
arrangement into which the Company contributes 7% of base salary.
No changes were made to the pension arrangements in light of the
changes to pension tax legislation in April 2006.
In addition to pension beneﬁts, the Executive Directors also receive
private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and a car.
Annual performance-related remuneration
Year ended 30 September 2006
For the year under review, the maximum bonus opportunity for the
Chief Executive was 100% of base salary and 75% of base salary for
the Finance Director . These bonuses, which were payable on a sliding
scale were dependent on the achievement of proﬁt (85% of the bonus
opportunity) and cash ﬂow targets (15% of the bonus opportunity)
which the Remuneration Committee believe are stretching. Based on
the Group’s performance relative to these targets each director
received a bonus on account of the Group’s proﬁt target of between 29%
and 50% of base salary and zero on account of the cash ﬂow target.
Year ended 30 September 2007
The total potential bonus payable to directors is 100% of base salary
in the case of the Chief Executive and 75% of base salary in the case
of the Group Finance Director . These bonuses, which are payable on
a sliding scale, are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee
and are calculated with reference to targets on adjusted proﬁt (as
deﬁned in the Finance Director’s Review).
Long Term Performance Related Remuneration
The Company is seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to (i)
introduce a new share incentive plan, and (ii) amend the rules of
the Company’s PSP.
The new incentive plan has been designed to operate alongside the
existing PSP (as amended) as a key incentive vehicle for the most
senior executives within the enlarged group during the integration
of First Notice Systems. In addition, the Plan will also operate as a
key incentive vehicle for those executives based outside of the UK.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 26
A full summary of the proposed new Plan and the amendment to the
PSP will be set out in the notice of AGM. It is intended that, on an
ongoing basis, the PSP will remain the primary incentive vehicle to
the Group. The amendment to the PSP is a technical one to enable
the Group to more effectively manage its share scheme dilution.
No other changes are being proposed to the PSP.
The PSP enables executive directors to receive conditional annual
awards of shares up to an equivalent of 1 x their annual base salary.
The vesting of awards is conditional on meeting the performance
conditions set out below over a three year performance period. 
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
Three Year EPS Growth Percentage of Award Vesting
Below RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 15%
RPI + 45% 50%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points.
Total Shareholder Return
The Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) is measured relative
to the constituents of the FTSE Software and Computer Services
and FTSE Support Services with vesting taking place as set out
below:
Ranking of the Company’s TSR Percentage of Award Vesting
Below Median No vesting
Median 15%
Upper Quartile 50%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points.
EPS and TSR were chosen as the most appropriate measures of the
Group’s long term performance because EPS is the key internal
measure of performance and TSR provides alignment with investors.
Service contracts
The Directors have each entered into service agreements or letters
of appointment between themselves and the Group as noted below.
The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for all the
executive directors that continue indeﬁnitely unless determined by
notice. Each of the non-executive directors is employed for an initial
term of three years. In line with the Code, each non-executive director
is typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although in
certain circumstances the Board may decide to extend this to three
or more three-year terms.
In October 2006 Chris Banks and David Thorpe renewed their
employment terms for a further three years, their previous letters of
employment having expired.
There are no predetermined special provisions for executive directors
with regard to compensation in the event of loss of ofﬁce.
Date of contract Notice period Early Unexpired
(by either termination term
party) provision
Geoff Squire 1 October 2004 1 month No 12 months
Hassan Sadiq 11 October 2001 12 months No
Paul Smolinski 10 June 2002 12 months No
Chris Banks 20 October 2006 1 month No 36 months
David Thorpe 20 October 2006 1 month No 36 months
Eric Wadsworth 1 May 2001 6 months No
Ed Ossie 17 July 2001 12 months No
Steve Scott 24 May 2000 12 months No
Unexpired terms are only relevant to the non-executive directors. On
21 November 2005 Eric Wadsworth, Ed Ossie and Steve Scott resigned
from the Board.
Share ownership
The beneﬁcial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of the
directors in ofﬁce as at 30 September 2006 and 30 September 2005
were as follows:
At At
30 September 2006 30 September 2005
No. No.
Geoff Squire 6,231,672 5,231,672
Hassan Sadiq 3,342,348 3,342,348
Paul Smolinski 434,000 434,000
Chris Banks 400,000 400,000
David Thorpe 150,000 150,000
Since the balance sheet date all directors, with the exception of
Paul Smolinski, have taken up their rights in full on a 2 for 5 basis. Paul
Smolinski has sold his nil-paid rights and has purchased an additional
48,321 shares in the Company.
Total shareholder return
The following graph shows the total shareholder return for the Group
for the last ﬁve years compared to the FTSE Software and Computer
Services Index and FTSE Small Cap Index. The Committee considers
these benchmark indices to be the most appropriate equity indices for
illustrating the Group’s performance.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
0
30 Sept 01 30 Sept 02 30 Sept 03 30 Sept 04 30 Sept 06 30 Sept 05
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Source: Thomson Financial
FTSE Small Cap Index Innovation Group plc
FTSE All Share Software & Computer Services Index
This graph shows the value by 30 September 2006, of £100 invested in The Innovation Group
plc on 30 September 2001 compared with the value of £100 in the FTSE Small Cap Index and
the FTSE All Share Software & Computer Services Index. The other points plotted are the
values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends. 27
AUDITED INFORMATION
Share options and long-term incentives
The Group has adopted ﬁve share option schemes and a Performance
Share Plan, which allow the granting of options to acquire ordinary
shares and the awarding of performance shares to directors and 
employees of the Group. Details of the three schemes being operated
are given in note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements. The share options
and long term incentives held by the directors, who have held ofﬁce
during the year, at the year end are as follows:
Options or LTIP
Held at 1 October 2005 Performance Earliest Expiry/
and 30 September 2006 Exercise price Conditions exercise date award date
Hassan Sadiq 1,000,000 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2005 18 August 2013
500,000 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2006 18 August 2013
358,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2006 7 September 2014
358,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2007 7 September 2014
358,334 £0.277 Option (b) 8 September 2008 7 September 2014
700,000 £0.000 LTIP (c) — 19 August 2008
Paul Smolinski 1,000,000 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2005 18 August 2013
500,000 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2006 18 August 2013
283,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2006 7 September 2014
283,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2007 7 September 2014
283,334 £0.277 Option (b) 8 September 2008 7 September 2014
400,000 £0.000 LTIP (c) — 19 August 2008
Ed Ossie (1) 666,667 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2005 18 August 2013
333,333 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2006 18 August 2013
258,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2006 7 September 2014
258,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2007 7 September 2014
258,334 £0.277 Option (b) 8 September 2008 7 September 2014
400,000 £0.000 LTIP (c) — 19 August 2008 
Steve Scott 666,667 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2005 18 August 2013
333,333 £0.136 Option (a) 18 August 2006 18 August 2013
300,000 £0.000 LTIP (c) — 19 August 2008 
Eric Wadsworth 666,667 £0.140 Option (a) 3 October 2005 3 October 2013
333,333 £0.140 Option (a) 3 October 2006 3 October 2013
133,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2006 7 September 2014
133,333 £0.277 Option (b) 7 September 2007 7 September 2014
133,334 £0.277 Option (b) 8 September 2008 7 September 2014
400,000 £0.000 LTIP (c) — 19 August 2008 
(1) In addition to the above, Ed Ossie has options over 661,500 and 1,772,820 shares already issued by the Company as a consequence of the acquisition of MTW Corporation
in July 2001 at an option price of $1.435 and $0.313 per share respectively. These shares are exercisable immediately and expire eighteen months after cessation 
of employment.
(2) No options were issued, exercised or lapsed during the year. No grants have been made since the balance sheet date. Following the rights issue, grants and option
prices have been amended to reﬂect the dilution caused by the rights issue.
(3) The holdings for Ed Ossie, Steve Scott and Eric Wadsworth shown above are at 1 October 2005 and at 21 November 2005, the date of their resignations.
Share options and long-term incentives 28
Directors’ emoluments for 2006
Basic Performance Beneﬁts Total Total
salary Fees related in kind 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Geoff Squire — 50 — — 50 50
Hassan Sadiq 220 — 110 32 362 289
Paul Smolinski 175 — 38 24 237 218
Chris Banks — 35 — — 35 35
David Thorpe — 35 — — 35 35
Ed Ossie (resigned 21 November 2005) 26 — — — 26 209
Steve Scott (resigned 21 November 2005) 21 — — 3 24 187
Eric Wadsworth (resigned 21 November 2005) 19 — — — 19 170
461 120 148 59 788 1,193
Beneﬁts in kind include company car, private medical and permanent health insurance.
Salaries for Ed Ossie, Steve Scott and Eric Wadsworth are for the period to 21 November 2005. Since the date of resignation £354,000 has
been paid in total to Ed Ossie, Steve Scott and Eric Wadsworth for their continuing services as employees of the Group. No compensation
was paid for loss of ofﬁce.
Pension entitlements
The contributions made by the Group in respect of money purchase schemes for each executive director are as follows:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Hassan Sadiq 16 16
Paul Smolinski 13 13
Ed Ossie (resigned 21 November 2005) 2 13
Steve Scott (resigned 21 November 2005) 2 11
Eric Wadsworth (resigned 21 November 2005) 3 24
36 77
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
David Thorpe
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
18 December 2006
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Performance conditions
(a) In common with all options granted by the Company prior to 
4 October 2003, these options had no performance conditions
attached.
(b) The awards will vest and become exercisable between the dates
given above if EPS growth, adjusted for amortisation of intangible
assets, share-based payment charges and any adjustments
required in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may
arise as made at the discretion of the remuneration committee,
exceeds RPI plus 3% per annum. The base EPS being that for the
year ended 30 September 2004. Future options issued will vest
based on EPS growth plus 10%.
(c) Awards will vest subject to the performance conditions set out
above for awards made under the PSP.
The market price of one ordinary share in the Company at 30 September
2006 was £0.30 and the range during the year was £0.24 to £0.3375. 29
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation
Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2006 which comprise
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet,
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 31. These Group
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements
of The Innovation Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2006 and
on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group ﬁnancial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group ﬁnancial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information
given in the Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information
presented in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Statement and the Finance Director’s Review that is cross referenced
from the Review of the Business section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects the
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required
to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of
the group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited group ﬁnancial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the Finance
Director’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the
unaudited section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group ﬁnancial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the group ﬁnancial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group
ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group
ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the group ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the
state of the group’s affairs as at 30 September 2006 and of its
proﬁt for the year then ended;
  the group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with
the group ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Reading
18 December 2006
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
THE INNOVATION GROUP PLC 30
2006 2005
Note £’000 £’000
Revenue 3 79,651 60,916
Cost of sales (41,892) (33,736)
Gross proﬁt 37,759 27,180
Administrative expenses (30,389) (26,057)
Operating proﬁt 4 7,370 1,123
Loss on disposal of continuing operations 8 — (54)
Finance income 6 1,160 729
Finance costs 7 (632) (567)
Share of proﬁt of associate 14 568 683
Proﬁt before tax 8,466 1,914
UK income tax expense (129) —
Overseas income tax expense (1,513) (1,369)
Total tax expense 9 (1,642) (1,369)
Proﬁt for the year 6,824 545
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 6,407 343
Minority interests 417 202
6,824 545
Adjusted proﬁt:
Proﬁt before tax 8,466 1,914
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,295 94
Share based payments 928 1,239
Loss on disposal of continuing operations — 54
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 258 265
Adjusted proﬁt for the year 3 10,947 3,566
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 10 1.28 0.07
Diluted 10 1.25 0.07
Adjusted 10 1.77 0.40
Adjusted diluted 10 1.74 0.40
All amounts relate to continuing operations.
No dividends have been paid or proposed in respect of any of the above years.
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Year ended 30 September 2006 31
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
30 September 2006
2006 2005
Note £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 10,497 11,086
Goodwill 12 33,372 25,443
Other intangible assets 13 7,114 339
Investments accounted for using the equity method 14 2,146 770
Financial assets 14 32 158
Deferred tax assets 9 746 893
53,907 38,689
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 20,548 12,655
Prepayments 1,451 1,002
Other ﬁnancial assets 17 685 —
Cash and cash equivalents 18 18,999 19,756
41,683 33,413
TOTAL ASSETS 95,590 72,102
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Equity share capital 9,030 8,793
Share premium 2,706 75
Merger reserve 561 —
Foreign currency translation (2,523) 642
Retained earnings 36,427 29,092
46,201 38,602
Minority interests 795 407
TOTAL EQUITY 46,996 39,009
Non current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 1,000 400
Deferred income 20 1,419 1,830
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 7,624 4,603
Deferred tax liabilities 9 2,174 —
Provisions 23 550 724
12,767 7,557
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 17,346 12,013
Deferred income 20 12,141 10,104
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 3,373 1,230
Income tax payable 2,732 2,029
Provisions 23 235 160
35,827 25,536
TOTAL LIABILITIES 48,594 33,093
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 95,590 72,102
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 December 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
P Smolinski
Director 32
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 30 September 2006
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued Share Merger Shares to Retained Translation Minority Total
capital premium reserve be issued earnings reserves Total interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2004 8,697 481,997 — 1,000 (455,523) — 36,171 74 36,245
Currency translation differences 
on foreign currency intangibles ————— 475 475 — 475
Currency translation differences 
on net investments including loans 
to foreign subsidiaries ————— 167 167 — 167
Total income and expense for the 
year recognised directly in equity————— 642 642 — 642
Proﬁt for the year ———— 343 — 343 202 545
Total income and expense 
for the year ———— 343 642 985 202 1,187
Issue of share capital 96 1,111 — (1,000) — — 207 — 207
Share based payments ———— 1,239 — 1,239 — 1,239
Minority interest acquired 
with subsidiary ——————— 131 131
Capital reduction — (483,033) — — 483,033 — — — —
At 30 September 2005 8,793 75 — — 29,092 642 38,602 407 39,009
Currency translation differences 
on foreign currency intangibles ————— (1,405) (1,405) (29) (1,434)
Currency translation differences 
on net investments including loans 
to foreign subsidiaries ————— (1,760) (1,760) — (1,760)
Total income and expense for the 
year recognised directly in equity————— (3,165) (3,165) (29) (3,194)
Proﬁt for the year ———— 6,407 — 6,407 417 6,824
Total income and expense 
for the year ———— 6,407 (3,165) 3,242 388 3,630
Issue of share capital 237 2,631 561 — — — 3,429 — 3,429
Share based payments ———— 928 — 928 — 928
At 30 September 2006 9,030 2,706 561 — 36,427 (2,523) 46,201 795 46,996
Following an extraordinary general meeting on 29 June 2005, The Innovation Group plc petitioned The High Court of Justice to cancel its share
premium account. Permission was granted on 23 August 2005 and as a result £483,033,000 was cancelled and transferred to retained earnings.
The reserves created cannot be distributed until all creditors existing at 23 August 2005 have been settled. 33
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Year ended 30 September 2006
2006 2005
Note £’000 £’000
Operating activities
Group operating proﬁt 7,370 1,123
Adjustments to reconcile group operating proﬁt to net cash inﬂows from operating activities
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,167 2,013
Loss/(proﬁt) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 (6)
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,295 94
Impairment of goodwill and ﬁnancial assets 111 —
Share based payments 928 1,239
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 258 265
Decrease in inventories — 172
Increase in receivables (9,020) (2,574)
Increase in payables 8,256 6,490
Income taxes paid (1,393) (1,579)
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 9,978 7,237
Investing activities
Sale of property, plant and equipment — 56
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,365) (807)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 15 (11,027) (2,187)
Sale of subsidiary undertakings — 172
Cash acquired with subsidiaries 15 626 415
Net cash disposed of with subsidiaries — (15)
Purchase of associated undertaking 14 (1,079) —
Purchase of ﬁxed asset investments — (72)
Sale of ﬁxed asset investment 55 —
Interest received 1,160 726
Net cash ﬂow from investing activities (11,630) (1,712)
Financing activities
Interest paid (780) (516)
Repayment of borrowings (3,106) (800)
New bank loans 8,148 —
Repayment of capital element of ﬁnance leases (269) (557)
Proceeds from issue of shares 87 206
Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 4,080 (1,667)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,428 3,858
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 19,756 15,789
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (3,185) 109
Cash and cash equivalents at the year end 18,999 19,756
Cash and cash equivalents include £8,821,000 (2005: £5,010,000) representing amounts due to repairers and funds held to settle future
maintenance claims as part of the normal administration of the outsourcing businesses. An equal amount representing the liability to the
third parties involved is included as part of the Group’s current and long term liabilities.
Cash held and available for use within the business in our South African operation of £4,293,000 (2005: £2,600,000) continues to be subject to
the normal government imposed exchange controls for that country. 34
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS
The ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation Group plc (the “Group”) for the year ended 30 September 2006 were authorised for issue by the board of
the directors on 18 December 2006 and the balance sheets were signed on the board’s behalf by Paul Smolinski. The Innovation Group plc is a public
limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales. The company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by
the European Union. The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Group has previously prepared its ﬁnancial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”). For the year
ended 30 September 2006, the Group is required to prepare its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the
European Union.
The Group is required to apply all relevant standards and accounting policies that are in force at the ﬁrst reporting date. The full set of accounting
policies is detailed below. An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the previously reported ﬁnancial results is provided in
note 31.
The Group ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000s), except where
otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation Group plc and the entities it controls drawn up to 30
September 2006.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the
investee so as to obtain beneﬁt from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable
or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same
reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including
unrealised proﬁts and losses arising from them, are eliminated.
The results and cash ﬂows relating to a business are included in the consolidated income statement and the consolidated cash ﬂow
statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Minority interests represent the portion of proﬁt or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from parent shareholders’ equity.
Interests in associates
The Group’s interests in associates, being those entities over which it has signiﬁcant inﬂuence and which are not subsidiaries, are accounted
for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost
plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in the
value of individual investments. The Group income statement reﬂects the share of the associate’s results after tax.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Group’s share
of the net fair value of the associate’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the
associate and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the associate’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the associate’s proﬁt or loss in the period
in which the investment is acquired. 35
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, management has had to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have been made
in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are detailed below and in speciﬁc accounting policy notes. These judgements involve
assumptions or estimates in respect of future events, which can vary from what is anticipated.
Unearned premium reserves
The assumption is made that future claims will follow a similar pattern to that of historical experience. A claims curve is derived from the
claims experience of the Group and is based on expired contracts. The majority of the contracts issued are 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months in
length. Contracts with different term lengths are assessed alongside contracts with the next longest term in order to calculate their unearned
premium. Revenue is recognised according to its position on the curve. Costs are recognised as incurred. The claims curves are assessed
on an annual basis by management and updated for any signiﬁcant changes in the trend of claims.
Deferred income in the outsourcing division
It is management’s best estimate that administration fees will be earned on a straight line basis over the period of each contract. This is
because these fees are driven by the number of claims over the course of a contract, rather than the monetary value of these claims. The
number of claims over the course of a contract is a more stable number to estimate and, as such, experience suggests that release on a
straight line basis is appropriate.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included within intangible
assets. IFRS 3 also requires the identiﬁcation of other intangible assets acquired. Although the techniques used to value these assets are in
line with internationally used models, they do require the use of estimates, which may differ from actual outcomes.
Income taxes
In recognising income taxes and liabilities, management makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions
and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain. Where the ﬁnal outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different,
from previous assessments made by management, a change in the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in
the period in which such determination is made.
Revenue
The Group derives its revenues from the sale of software licences, solution delivery implementation services, maintenance and post contract
customer support services (“PCS services”), licence rental fees, and fees for transactions processed on behalf of clients.
New solution sales often involve software licences being sold together with PCS and/or implementation services. Where the commercial
substance of such a combination is that the individual components operate independently of each other and fair values are attributable to
each of the components, each are then recognised in accordance with their respective policies described below.
Where it is not possible to attribute reliable fair values to two or more components these are viewed as a combination and revenue is recognised
on the combined revenue streams in proportion to the Group’s right to receiving consideration on the combination at the balance sheet date.
For example, when software licences are sold together with implementation services and the fair value of either element is not determinable,
both software licence and the implementation services are recognised using the percentage of completion method with provisions for estimated
losses on uncompleted contracts being recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the current contract cost
estimates. When software licences are sold together with PCS services and the fair value of either revenue stream is not determinable, the
licence income is recognised over the period of the PCS services. 36
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Revenue continued
The revenue recognition policies for separately identiﬁable revenue streams are as follows:
Initial licence fees – revenues are recognised when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the licence fee
is ﬁxed or determinable, the collection of the fee is reasonably assured, no signiﬁcant obligations with regard to installation or implementation
of the software remain, and customer acceptance, when applicable, has been obtained.
Maintenance and other PCS services – revenues are recognised rateably over the explicit, or an implicit, PCS services term.
Solution delivery implementation services – revenues are billed on a time-and-materials basis and are recognised as the related services are
performed. However, if the consulting agreement is a ﬁxed-fee arrangement, revenue may be recognised using the percentage of completion
method as the related services are performed, or recognised in stages on achievement of milestones. Provisions for estimated losses on
uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the current contract cost estimates.
Fees earned by the outsourcing division – The Group receives payments either as principal or agent. Receipts typically comprise one or
more of the following elements: administrative fees, fees for which the Group provides an additional service or where the Group receives
funds in relation to claims it has assumed the risk for settling.
Revenue is normally recorded on a net basis and comprises fees for administrative and other services. Where the Group has assumed the
risk of settling claims on behalf of the client, revenue is recorded on a gross basis and includes the element of income relating to that cost.
Revenues are recognised in line with the performance of the related services or referred work, including where appropriate, an assessment
of accrued income.
On-risk contracts
In a small number of cases the Group has entered into ‘risk and reward’ contracts.
The Group receives premiums in advance for on-risk contracts. The premium is split between administration fees paid in advance and a fund
portion, which is used to cover the future claims that relate to the contract.
In the case of service and maintenance plans the administration fees received in advance are deferred and recognised on a straight line basis
over the period of the relevant service contract. The fund portion is also deferred, but is recognised over the period of the contract based
on a claims curve derived from past claims experience.
In the case of subsidence claims the administration fee is recognised over the period of the claim and the fund portion is deferred in a ‘repairer
reserve’ in the balance sheet in order to meet future repair costs. Any anticipated losses are accrued immediately. If there are any reserves
remaining at the conclusion of a contract, these are released to the income statement.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred in the development of software and hardware products, and their related intellectual property rights, is capitalised
as an intangible asset only when:
  technical feasibility has been demonstrated;
  adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources exist to complete the development, which the Group intends to complete and use;
  future economic beneﬁts expected to arise are deemed probable; and
  the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised development costs are
amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives once the related software and hardware products are available to use.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s
interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and
is not amortised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 37
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Business combinations and goodwill continued
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place before 1 October 2004. As a result goodwill
recognised on any business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP in the functional
currency of the acquiring entity. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets or equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the
date of exchange, plus costs directly attributed to the acquisition. After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment losses are never reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business
segment level or statutory company level as the case may be. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken
into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination
is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation
and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is charged against
proﬁts in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite or indeﬁnite. Intangible assets with ﬁnite lives are amortised over the useful
economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a ﬁnite useful life is reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial
year end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset are
accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates and adjustments
are reﬂected prospectively. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with ﬁnite lives is recognised in the income statement in the expense
category consistent with the function of the intangible asset. The useful economic lives of the intangible assets are as follows:
Software licences 5 years
Customer relationships 5 years
Customer lists 2 years
Trade names 5 years
Intellectual property 5 years
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Such cost includes costs
directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. On other assets it is calculated to write off their cost less estimated residual value, based on prices
prevailing at the balance sheet date, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets. These are as follows:
Freehold property 50 years
Property improvements 10 – 15 years
Fixtures and ﬁttings 4 – 15 years
Motor vehicles 4 years
Computer systems 5 years
Computer equipment 2 – 3 years
The useful economic lives and residual values assigned to property, plant and equipment are assessed on an annual basis. The carrying values
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not
be recoverable. 38
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised
in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no
longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss
is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment
loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset
in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Pensions
The Group contributes to Group personal pension schemes for its staff according to individual’s contract terms. Contributions payable by
the Group to these schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. All such schemes are deﬁned contribution
arrangements, the assets of which are held separately from the Group.
Share based payments
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity settled awards so as to apply
IFRS 2 only to those equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which vest on or after 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and
is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the
award. Fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any
vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance conditions are satisﬁed.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has
expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments
that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement
in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modiﬁed or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based
on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder
of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modiﬁcation, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award
and the fair value of the modiﬁed award, both as measured on the date of the modiﬁcation. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the
income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or
settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet, comprises cash at bank and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or
less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents, as previously
deﬁned, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 39
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Investments
Investments in unquoted equity investments, which do not have a reliable market value, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment
in value. For investments where there is an actively traded market the investment is stated at fair value, determined by reference to a quoted
market bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Leases and hire purchase contracts
Assets acquired under leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and disclosed under property, plant and equipment at their
estimated fair value, or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments on the inception of each lease or contract and depreciated
over their estimated useful lives. The capital element of the future payments is treated as a liability and the total ﬁnance charge is allocated
over the period of the lease or contract in such a way as to give a constant charge on the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals payable or receivable are charged or credited to the income statement over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on
translation are included in the income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to foreign currency subsidiaries
which form part of the net investment. These are taken directly to equity until the date of disposal of the net investment, at which time they are
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Income and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the year, where this represents a reasonable approximation of actual exchange rates
at the date of transactions. The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign
entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
The Group has applied the exemption in IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption” to reset cumulative exchange differences on net investment in foreign
operations to zero at the date of transition.
During the year the most signiﬁcant currencies, other than sterling, were the US dollar, South African Rand and the Euro. The average annual
exchange rates used to convert results into sterling were US$1.80: £1 (2005: US$1.85: £1), SA Rand 11.99: £1 (2005: SA Rand 11.49: £1) and
Euro 1.46: £1 (2005: Euro 1.45: £1)
Taxation
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items, which are non-assessable or disallowed, based on
tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities or assets are recognised on all temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries and associates
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a
business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss.
Deferred tax assets on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries or associates are recognised only to the extent that it is
probable the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future; and taxable proﬁts will be available against which the temporary difference
can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised either to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary
difference or unused deferred tax asset can be utilised, or in the case of deferred tax on appropriate tax credits will arise. Their carrying amount
is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or
liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt
or loss. Where deferred tax assets are recognised subsequent to an acquisition, such as when the beneﬁt of the acquiree’s income tax loss
carry forwards have since been realised, the deferred tax income is recognised in taxation and a corresponding reduction is made to goodwill,
which is recognised as an operating expense. The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date. 40
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Taxation continued
In the United Kingdom, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as remuneration on exercise of certain employee share
options. As explained under “Share based payment” above, a remuneration expense is recorded in the Group’s income statement over the
period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options. As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases,
a deferred tax asset may be recorded. The deferred tax asset arising on share option awards is calculated as the estimated amount of tax
deduction to be obtained in the future (based on the Group’s share price at the balance sheet date) pro-rated to the extent that the services
of the employee have been rendered over the vesting period. If this amount exceeds the cumulative amount of the remuneration expense at
the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings. Similarly, current tax relief in excess of the cumulative
amount of the remuneration expense at the statutory rate is also recorded in retained earnings. No remuneration charge is recorded in
respect of options granted before 7 November 2002, which have not vested by 1 January 2005. Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and
will continue to arise on these options. The tax effects arising in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity against retained earnings.
No deferred tax asset is recognised with respect to this where there is no certainty of taxable proﬁts being generated in appropriate locations
that the deferred tax asset could be utilised against.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability
is settled. This is based upon tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets
Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, loans and receivables and
held-to-maturity investments, as appropriate. When ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the
case of ﬁnancial assets not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group determines the classiﬁcation
of its ﬁnancial assets after initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each ﬁnancial year-end.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets classiﬁed as held for trading are included in the category ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss’. Financial assets
are classiﬁed as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. Derivatives are also classiﬁed as held for
trading unless they are designated and effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on investments held for trading are recognised in income.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such
assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are those non-derivative ﬁnancial assets that are designated as such or not classiﬁed in the above
categories. After initial recognition available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in
a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the
cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. Gains and losses are recognised in net proﬁt or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 41
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Convertible loan
The component of the convertible loan that exhibits characteristics of a liability is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, net of transaction
costs. On issuance of the convertible loan, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent non-
convertible bond; and this amount is carried as a long term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
Where applicable the remainder of the proceeds is allocated either to the conversion option that is recognised and included in shareholders’
equity or the fair value of the derivative element that is recognised in the balance sheet, where it meets the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial liability.
Any movement in the derivative element is recorded in the income statement, within ﬁnance costs.
On redemption the loan is repaid at par and any derivative element is released through the income statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these
ﬁnancial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a Speciﬁc Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinﬂationary Economies 1 March 2006
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial
statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its ﬁnancial instruments, their signiﬁcance and the
nature and extent of risks that they give rise to. More speciﬁcally the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its ﬁnancial instruments
and its risk exposure in greater detail. There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
IAS 32 and 39 were adopted as at 1 October 2005, although the Group has not taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of IFRS 7 not
to restate comparative amounts. The impact of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 is detailed in note 31. 42
3. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group operates within two primary reporting segments, namely outsourcing and software. These are the Group’s primary reporting format
for segment information. Secondary segment information is reported geographically.
Primary basis – business segments
Year ended 30 September 2006
Outsourcing Software Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
External segment revenue 48,327 31,324 79,651
Segment result 5,030 2,340 7,370
Finance income 875 285 1,160
Finance costs (261) (371) (632)
Share of proﬁt of associate 568 — 568
Proﬁt before tax 6,212 2,254 8,466
Tax expense (1,642)
Proﬁt after tax (before minority interest) 6,824
Adjusted proﬁt
Proﬁt before tax 6,212 2,254 8,466
Amortisation of intangible assets 925 370 1,295
Share based payments 113 815 928
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 258 — 258
7,508 3,439 10,947
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 55,619 36,362 91,981
Unallocated assets 3,609
95,590
Segment liabilities 19,803 12,888 32,691
Unallocated liabilities 15,903
48,594
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 901 826 1,727
Intangible ﬁxed assets 16,853 852 17,705
Depreciation 1,035 1,132 2,167
Amortisation 925 370 1,295
Central costs have been allocated on a 50:50 basis between software and outsourcing (2005:70% software, 30% outsourcing). The change
in the allocation for 2006 reﬂects the increasing activity in outsourcing.
Unallocated assets comprise ﬁxed and current asset investments and deferred tax assets. Unallocated liabilities include interest bearing
loans and borrowings and taxation creditors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 43
3. SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
Primary basis – business segments
Year ended 30 September 2005
Outsourcing Software Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
External segment revenue 34,929 25,987 60,916
Segment result 3,253 (2,130) 1,123
Finance income 567 162 729
Finance costs (167) (400) (567)
Loss on disposal of continuing operations 46 (100) (54)
Share of proﬁt of associate 683 — 683
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 4,382 (2,468) 1,914
Tax expense (1,369)
Proﬁt after tax (before minority interest) 545
Adjusted proﬁt
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 4,382 (2,468) 1,914
Amortisation of intangible assets — 94 94
Share based payments 112 1,127 1,239
Loss on disposal of continuing operations (46) 100 54
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 265 — 265
4,713 (1,147) 3,566
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 30,143 40,138 70,281
Unallocated assets 1,821
72,102
Segment liabilities 13,520 11,539 25,059
Unallocated liabilities 8,034
33,093
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 1,091 506 1,597
Intangible ﬁxed assets 1,882 419 2,301
Depreciation 834 1,179 2,013
Amortisation —9494
Unallocated assets comprise ﬁxed asset investments and deferred tax assets. Unallocated liabilities include interest bearing loans and borrowings
and taxation creditors. 44
3. SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
Secondary format – geographical segments
The following table presents an analysis of revenue and operating proﬁt by country of origin and an analysis of the carrying amount of segment
assets and capital expenditure by the geographical area in which those assets are located.
Revenue by origin and destination
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Africa 31,140 23,096
Europe 28,107 16,312
Americas 15,256 16,706
Asia Paciﬁc 5,148 4,802
79,651 60,916
Segment assets
Africa 21,171 17,170
Europe 53,391 35,686
Americas 9,469 13,885
Asia Paciﬁc 7,950 3,540
91,981 70,281
Unallocated assets 3,609 1,821
95,590 72,102
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment
Africa 787 847
Europe 672 432
Americas 97 126
Asia Paciﬁc 171 192
1,727 1,597
Capital expenditure – intangibles and goodwill
Europe 14,242 1,557
Asia Paciﬁc 3,463 15
Africa — 729
17,705 2,301
All revenue relates to services. The following table provides disclosure of the Group’s revenue analysed by the type of service.
Revenue by type of service
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Software
Licence 6,774 3,348
Solution delivery 17,431 15,231
Licence rental 2,965 2,178
Maintenance 1,754 1,638
Hosting and bureau services 2,400 1,795
Public sector — 1,797
31,324 25,987
Outsourcing 48,327 34,929
Total revenue 79,651 60,916
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 45
4. OPERATING PROFIT
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging/(crediting):
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Depreciation — owned assets 1,579 1,558
— leased assets 588 455
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,295 94
Impairment — goodwill 40 —
— ﬁnancial assets 71 —
Loss/(proﬁt) on disposal of ﬁxed assets 6 (6)
Auditors’ remuneration — audit of the Group ﬁnancial statements 141 56
Other audit services — local statutory audits for subsidiaries 244 135
Other fees to auditors — services provided pursuant to legislation 25 37
— services related to taxation 163 179
— all other services — 42
Operating leases minimum lease payments — hire of plant and machinery 179 127
— other 1,291 1,330
Exchange gain (417) (38)
Research and development 2,278 2,719
In addition to the above £642,000 (2005: £61,000) was paid to the auditors for due diligence work on acquisitions in the year. This is made
up of £116,500 (2005: £nil) relating to stock exchange requirements and £525,500 (2005: £61,000) in relation to corporate ﬁnance services.
These amounts have been capitalised as part of the acquisition cost, or where the acquisition was completed post year end, included within
current assets at the year end.
5. STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ emoluments
Details of directors’ emoluments, share options and grants under the Performance Share Plan are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on pages 25 to 28 and forms part of the ﬁnancial statements.
Employee costs during the year (including directors)
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 35,443 27,932
Social security costs 2,779 2,194
Other pension costs 588 591
Share based payments 928 1,239
39,738 31,956
Average number of persons employed
2006 2005
No. No.
Software division 401 280
Outsourcing division 942 805
Central and administration 17 18
1,360 1,103
Total number of employees at the year end 1,403 1,262 46
6. FINANCE INCOME
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Bank interest 1,160 729
7. FINANCE COSTS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Convertible loan notes 116 51
Other loans 394 268
Finance leases 122 248
632 567
8. LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings — 46
Disposal of trade and assets — (100)
— (54)
The above transactions have no impact on taxation or minority interests.
2005
The Group disposed of its 51% share in its subsidiary MiNett Data Management (Pty) Limited on 1 August 2005 resulting in a proﬁt on disposal
of £46,000. This occurred within the outsourcing segment of the Group. Details of the disposal are provided below.
2005
£’000
Net assets disposed of:
Property, plant and equipment 120
Cash and cash equivalents 15
Trade and other payables (135)
Minority interests 123
123
Related goodwill (see note 12) 3
Proﬁt on disposal 46
172
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 172
On 30 September 2005 the Group disposed of the trade and certain assets in The Innovation Group/MTW Inc, its US public sector business.
The assets disposed of had a net book value totalling £100,000. In exchange, the Group received a loan note of the same value. Due to the
uncertainty surrounding the collectability of this loan note this debt has been provided for in full resulting in a loss on disposal of £100,000.
This occurred within the software segment of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 47
9. TAXATION
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax 138 —
Foreign tax 1,886 1,770
Current tax on income in the year 2,024 1,770
Adjustments in respect of prior years (46) (57)
Total current tax expense 1,978 1,713
Deferred tax credit
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (336) (344)
Total deferred tax credit (336) (344)
Total income tax in the income statement 1,642 1,369
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Reconciliation of total tax charge
Group proﬁt before tax 8,466 1,914
Income tax using UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2005: 30%) 2,540 574
Tax effects of:
Permanent differences (398) 219
Non-taxable income (146) (665)
Rate differences on overseas earnings 32 (57)
Current year tax losses, no deferred tax recognised 550 1,596
Other differences — (35)
Utilisation of brought forward tax losses (1,214) (635)
Share based payments 278 372
Total income tax expense 1,642 1,369
Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Release of deferred tax on acquired intangibles (321) —
Short term timing differences (15) (344)
Origination and reversal of other temporary timing differences (336) (344)
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net balance at 30 September
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Deferred tax on intangible assets — — (2,174) — (2,174) —
Deferred tax on short term timing differences 746 893 — — 746 893
There are temporary differences, which arise in connection with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries. Since the Group is able to control
the dividend distributions from these companies it is unlikely that further UK tax on repatriation of these earnings will be payable in the
foreseeable future. Consequently, no deferred tax liability has been provided. 48
9. TAXATION continued
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Decelerated capital allowances 3,558 2,851
Tax losses — trading losses 15,900 16,601
— capital losses 50,523 50,725
Unexercised share options 668 746
70,649 70,923
Unutilised deferred tax mainly relates to carried forward unutilised trading losses, which are available indeﬁnitely for offset against future
proﬁts of the companies in which the losses have arisen. These assets have not been recognised on the basis that there is insufﬁcient evidence
that the asset will be recoverable at the balance sheet date. The assets will only be recognised with improved predictability of taxable proﬁts.
10. EARNINGS PER SHARE
2006 2005
pence pence
Basic earnings per share 1.28 0.07
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares
— add share options (0.03) —
Diluted earnings per share 1.25 0.07
Basic earnings per share 1.28 0.07
Adjustments 
— amortisation 0.26 0.02
— share based payments 0.18 0.24
— loss on disposal of continuing operations — 0.01
— utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 0.05 0.06
Adjusted basic earnings per share 1.77 0.40
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares (0.03) —
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 1.74 0.40
Earnings per share is calculated as follows:
2006 2005
Number of shares (000’s)
Average number of shares in issue used to calculate basic and adjusted basic earnings per share 500,283 491,000
Dilutive potential ordinary shares
— add share options 10,375 9,005
Shares used to calculate diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per share 510,658 500,005
Basic and diluted earnings (£’000)
Basic and diluted earnings for the year 6,407 343
— add amortisation 1,295 94
— add share based payments 928 1,239
— add loss on disposal of continuing operations — 54
— add utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 258 265
Adjusted and adjusted diluted earnings for the year 8,888 1,995
The average number of shares for both 2006 and 2005 have been adjusted to reﬂect the shares issued during the rights issue completed on
13 December 2006.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 49
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Computer 
Land and Property Fixtures Motor systems and
buildings improvements and ﬁttings vehicles equipment Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 October 2004 7,703 3,762 4,249 105 11,429 27,248
Foreign exchange — 15 39 3 108 165
Additions — 77 58 158 1,304 1,597
Disposals — (230) (78) (86) (1,618) (2,012)
Acquired with subsidiary — — 31 3 36 70
Disposed with subsidiary ———— (126) (126)
At 30 September 2005 7,703 3,624 4,299 183 11,133 26,942
Foreign exchange — (38) (177) (16) (637) (868)
Additions 9 128 235 32 1,323 1,727
Disposals (878) (2) (9) (32) (944) (1,865)
Acquired with subsidiary — — 19 40 64 123
At 30 September 2006 6,834 3,712 4,367 207 10,939 26,059
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2004 1,072 2,113 2,544 31 9,832 15,592
Foreign exchange — 10 32 2 72 116
Charge for the year 71 216 550 29 1,147 2,013
Disposals — (230) (78) (32) (1,519) (1,859)
Disposed with subsidiary ———— (6) (6)
At 30 September 2005 1,143 2,109 3,048 30 9,526 15,856
Foreign exchange — (12) (123) (12) (455) (602)
Charge for the year 104 308 301 85 1,369 2,167
Disposals (878) (1) (8) (30) (942) (1,859)
At 30 September 2006 369 2,404 3,218 73 9,498 15,562
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 6,465 1,308 1,149 134 1,441 10,497
At 30 September 2005 6,560 1,515 1,251 153 1,607 11,086
At 1 October 2004 6,631 1,649 1,705 74 1,597 11,656
Land and buildings relates to assets all of which are held as freehold. Freehold land included within land and buildings totals £3,075,000
(2005: £3,075,000). In accordance with IAS 16, this is not depreciated. Within land and buildings are assets with a net book value of £6,448,000
(2005: £6,528,000) against which the loan of £4,300,000 (2005: £3,800,000) disclosed in note 22 is secured.
Included within the total net book value is £85,000 (2005: £120,000), £107,000 (2005: £198,000) and £757,000 (2005: £602,000) relating to motor
vehicles, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings and computer equipment and systems respectively held under hire purchase or ﬁnance lease agreements. These
assets are security for the obligations under hire purchase and ﬁnance lease of £1,005,000 (2005: £956,000) disclosed in note 22. 50
12. GOODWILL
Note Goodwill
£’000
Net book value
At 1 October 2004 23,521
Acquisition of InFront Solutions Limited 1,557
Acquisition of Statsure (Pty) Limited 325
Disposals (3)
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses (265)
Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions (153)
Foreign exchange 461
At 30 September 2005 25,443
Acquisition of Service Konzept AG 15a 6,046
Acquisition of CMC Deutschland GmbH 15b 40
Acquisition of Sureplan Australia Pty Limited 15c 1,749
Acquisition of Prophit Share Limited 15d 337
Acquisition of AMK Associates Limited 15e 1,442
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses (258)
Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions (3)
Transfer of trade marks to intangible assets 13 (77)
Impairment (40)
Foreign exchange (1,307)
At 30 September 2006 33,372
Impairment provisions as at 30 September 2006 amounted to £40,000 (2005: nil)
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units. The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying
value of goodwill using value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are the discount rate applied and
the future growth rate of net operating cash ﬂows.
The goodwill acquired at 1 October 2004 has been allocated to one of two cash-generating units, outsourcing or software. Since 1 October 2004,
goodwill arising on acquisition shall be allocated to individual cash-generating units, where it is possible to continue to attribute future cash
ﬂows to these cash-generating units.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units is as follows:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Outsourcing
Pre 1 October 2004 10,917 12,113
InFront Solutions Limited 1,034 1,292
Statsure (Pty) Limited 271 350
Service Konzept AG 5,970 —
CMC Deutschland GmbH 39 —
Sureplan Australia Pty Limited 1,715 —
AMK Associates Limited 1,442 —
21,388 13,755
Software 
Pre 1 October 2004 and integrated acquisitions 11,984 11,688
33,372 25,443
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 51
12. GOODWILL continued
The Group prepares cash ﬂow forecasts for these cash generating units based on the most recent annual budgets approved by the Board.
These are based upon internal forecasts of future growth over a ﬁve year period and cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve year period extrapolated using
expected growth rates.
The impairment loss above relates to the write off of the remaining goodwill relating to Mastertronics, a subsidiary of The Innovation Group
(Pty) Limited.
Other than the impairment loss shown above, as at 30 September 2006, there are no impairment losses.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The calculation of value in use for all of the business units is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
  EBITA;
  discount rates; and
  growth rates used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the budget period.
EBITA is derived from management budgets, which are based on the performance of the Group over the past twelve months.
Discount rates reﬂect management’s estimation of the rate of return that would be expected from a rational investor over the period of the
forecast. These pre-tax rates vary from 8% to 16% for the outsourcing segment and 9% for the software segment.
Growth rate estimates for a three year period are based on discounted forecasts. Growth estimates for future years exceeding the forecast
are in the range of 3% to 5%. These rates have been discounted from analysts’ expectations.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of all group businesses management believes that there are no reasonably possible changes
in any of the above key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount with the exception of
AMK Associates Limited, which is sensitive to the achievement of forecasts. Should this company fail to meet forecasts the deferred
consideration of £1,000,000 currently provided would be reduced prior to any need for impairment. 52
13. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Computer 
Software Customer Customer Trade Intellectual
licences relationships lists names property Total
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2004 ——————
Additions 15 ———— 15
Acquisition of Websoft Pty 30 374——— 404
Foreign exchange — 25 — — — 25
At 30 September 2005 45 399——— 444
Additions 48 ———— 48
Transfer of trade marks from goodwill 12 ——— 77 — 77
Acquisition of Service Konzept AG 15a — 4,485 — 288 — 4,773
Acquisition of 
Sureplan Australia Pty Limited 15c — 259 327 — 1,080 1,666
Acquisition of Prophit Share Limited 15d ———— 467 467
Acquisition of AMK Associates Limited 15e 38 1,099——— 1,137
Foreign exchange (2) (147) (6) (17) (21) (193)
At 30 September 2006 129 6,095 321 348 1,526 8,419
Amortisation
At 1 October 2004 ——————
Charge for the year 9 85 — — — 94
Foreign exchange — 11 — — — 11
At 30 September 2005 9 96 — — — 105
Charge for the year 34 1,018 69 71 103 1,295
Foreign exchange (3) (81) (2) (6) (3) (95)
At 30 September 2006 40 1,033 67 65 100 1,305
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 89 5,062 254 283 1,426 7,114
At 30 September 2005 36 303——— 339
At 1 October 2004 ——————
No intangibles have an indeﬁnite life.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 53
14. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Investments accounted for under the equity method
Associates Financial assets
Share of
net assets/ Other Loans to other
Loans Goodwill (liabilities) investments investments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2004 50 210 57 6,070 311 6,698
Additions — 50 — — — 50
Transfer from current assets — — — 88 — 88
Proﬁt retained for the year — — 683 — — 683
Foreign exchange — — 16 — — 16
At 30 September 2005 50 260 756 6,158 311 7,535
Additions — 1,079——— 1,079
Disposals (50) (160) (96) (6,071) (311) (6,688)
Proﬁt retained for the year — — 568 — — 568
Foreign exchange — — (261) — — (261)
At 30 September 2006 — 1,179 967 87 — 2,233
Amounts provided
At 1 October 2004 and 
30 September 2005 50 210 36 6,000 311 6,607
Charge for the year — — — 71 — 71
Disposals (50) (210) (36) (6,016) (311) (6,623)
At 30 September 2006 — — — 55 — 55
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 — 1,179 967 32 — 2,178
At 30 September 2005 — 50 720 158 — 928
At 1 October 2004 — — 21 70 — 91
Other investments held at 30 September 2006 represent a shareholding of 2,937,500 ordinary shares in The Claims People Group plc, a company
listed on the Alternative Investment Market. In December 2005, the Group disposed of its shareholding in Insurance Decisions Inc. for a cash
consideration of £55,000 and loss on disposal of £17,000.
Other investments held at 30 September 2005 represent the Group’s 10% stake in an unlisted company, Insurance Decisions Inc. (“IDI”) and
2,937,500 ordinary shares in The Claims People Group plc, a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market. 54
14. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS continued
Investments in associates accounted for under the equity method
The Group has a 32% interest in Absolute Customer Management Limited (2005: 32%), a private company which handles fraud investigations
on behalf of insurance companies in the United Kingdom. The company was placed into liquidation on 9 May 2006.
The following table illustrates summarised ﬁnancial information of the Group’s investment in Absolute Customer Management Limited.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Revenues — 433
Proﬁt before tax — 60
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Share of the associate’s balance sheet
Non-current assets — 10
Current assets — 142
Share of gross assets — 152
Current liabilities — (56)
Non-current liabilities — —
Share of gross liabilities — (56)
Share of net assets — 96
The Group has a 30% interest in I.V.R.B. Limited (2005: 30%), a private company, which provides comprehensive vehicle replacement solutions
in the United Kingdom.
The following table illustrates summarised ﬁnancial information of the Group’s investment in I.V.R.B.Limited.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Revenues 2 —
Loss before tax (42) (18)
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Share of the associate’s balance sheet
Non-current assets — 1
Current assets 15 25
Share of gross assets 15 26
Current liabilities (2) (32)
Non-current liabilities — —
Share of gross liabilities (2) (32)
Share of net assets/(liabilities) 13 (6)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 55
14. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS continued
The Group has a 25% interest in Conversant Limited (2005: nil), a private company, which provides criminal risk and fraud prevention solutions
in the United Kingdom.
The following table illustrates summarised ﬁnancial information of the Group’s investment in Conversant Limited.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Revenues 221 —
Loss before tax (33) —
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Share of the associate’s balance sheet
Non-current assets 8 —
Current assets 114 —
Share of gross assets 122 —
Current liabilities (90) —
Non-current liabilities — —
Share of gross liabilities (90) —
Share of net assets 32 —
The Group has a 100% shareholding in a cell captive structure, which is part of Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited (registered in South
Africa). As the Group has no control, only signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the cell, it has been accounted for as an associate using the equity method
of accounting. The Group’s share of net proﬁt has been brought into the income statement with the investment carried at fair value in the balance
sheet. The prior year results have been amended to reﬂect the same treatment. The cell is a “Special Purpose Entity” as deﬁned by SIC 12.
The following table illustrates the summarised ﬁnancial information of the Group’s investment in the cell captive.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Revenues 5,251 5,587
Proﬁt before tax 995 1,008
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Share of the associate’s balance sheet
Non-current assets 135 —
Current assets 4,921 6,161
Share of gross assets 5,056 6,161
Current liabilities (685) (745)
Non-current liabilities (3,072) (4,760)
Share of gross liabilities (3,757) (5,505)
Share of net assets 1,299 656 56
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
All fair values included in the following analysis are provisional fair values, which are based upon management’s best estimate at the time of
preparation of the ﬁnancial statements. Fair values will be amended as necessary in the light of subsequent knowledge of events to the extent
that these reﬂect conditions at the date of acquisition.
15a. Service Konzept AG
On 1 January 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Service Konzept AG for a total consideration, including acquisition costs, of
£9,711,000 (€14,159,000). The total consideration was a combination of cash and the issue of 9,300,754 new shares in The Innovation Group
plc. The fair value of these shares at the date of issue was £2,741,000 (€4,000,000) and was based on a share price of 30.00p. Service Konzept
AG provides outsourcing services for household insurance. On 30 May 2006 the company changed its name to Innovation Group Property AG.
The investment has been included in the balance at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing
segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 4,773
Property, plant and equipment 58 58
Trade and other receivables 175 175
Other ﬁnancial assets 685 685
Cash and cash equivalents 546 546
Deferred taxation — (1,822)
Trade and other payables (750) (750)
714 3,665
Goodwill 6,046
9,711
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 6,861
Acquisition costs 109
Issue of shares 2,741
9,711
From the date of acquisition the company has contributed £1,214,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group and £3,936,000 to its revenues. If the
company had been acquired on 1 October 2005 it would have contributed £4,848,000 to the revenue and £1,477,000 to the proﬁt before tax of
the Group.
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships and the trade names REGU24 and REGUMAX. Both the customer
relationships and trade names have a useful economic life of ﬁve years. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has
been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated synergies due to business processes and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
The cash consideration above is contingent on the co-founders of the business remaining in employment for a period of three years following
acquisition. If the co-founders leave employment before this time 60% of the consideration can be recovered on a pro-rata basis.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 57
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
15b. CMC Deutschland GmbH
On 1 January 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of CMC Deutschland GmbH for a total cash consideration of £60,000 (€88,000).
CMC Deutschland GmbH provides outsourcing services for vehicle leasing. On 30 May 2006 the company changed its name to Innovation Group
Leasing GmbH. The investment has been included in the balance at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to
the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Property, plant and equipment 11
Trade and other receivables 11 11
Cash and cash equivalents 19 19
Trade and other payables (11) (11)
20 20
Goodwill 40
60
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 60
From the date of acquisition the company has contributed £28,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the group and £157,000 to its revenues. If the company
had been acquired on 1 October 2005 it would have contributed £226,000 to the revenue and £30,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group.
The excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill and is attributable to anticipated synergies due to business
processes. 58
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
15c. Sureplan Australia Pty Limited
On 31 May 2006 the Group acquired the trading assets of Sureplan Australia Pty Limited for a total cash consideration, including acquisition
costs, of £3,293,000 (AUD $8,098,000). The total consideration includes a deferred payment of £407,000 (AUD $1,000,000), which has subsequently
been paid in October 2006, due to performance conditions being met. Sureplan Australia Pty Limited is a provider of outsourced accident and
risk management solutions to the automotive leasing and self-insured ﬂeet sector . The investment has been included in the balance at its fair
value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 1,666
Property, plant and equipment 47 47
Deferred taxation — (169)
47 1,544
Goodwill 1,749
3,293
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 2,742
Acquisition costs 145
Deferred contingent cash consideration 406
3,293
From the date of acquisition the company has contributed £50,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group and £617,000 to its revenues. If the company
had been acquired on 1 October 2005 it would have contributed £1,189,000 to the revenue and £67,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group.
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships, customer lists and intellectual property in the Fast Track system.
The customer relationships and intellectual property have a useful economic life of ﬁve years. The customer lists have a useful economic
life of eighteen months. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable
to anticipated synergies due to business processes and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
The deferred contingent cash consideration has been subsequently paid to the vendor due to the relevant performance conditions being met.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 59
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
15d. Prophit Share Limited
On 1 June 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Prophit Share Limited for a total consideration of £600,000. The consideration
was settled entirely by the issue of 1,926,164 new shares in The Innovation Group plc on 1 June 2006. The fair value of these shares at the date
of issue was £600,000 at a share price of 31.75p. Prophit Share Limited is a specialist in claims leakage business intelligence. On the same date
the trade and assets of the company were transferred to another Group company, The Innovation Group (EMEA) Limited. The investment has
been included in the balance at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the software segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 467
Property, plant and equipment 99
Trade and other receivables 29 29
Cash and cash equivalents 13 13
Deferred taxation — (140)
Trade and other payables (115) (115)
(64) 263
Goodwill 337
600
Satisﬁed by:
Issue of shares 600
As the trade and assets of Prophit Share Limited have been integrated into The Innovation Group (EMEA) Limited from the date of acquisition
it is not possible to separately identify its trading performance post acquisition.
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired intellectual property in the business intelligence tool. This asset has a useful economic life
of ﬁve years. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill and is attributable to anticipated
synergies. 60
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
15e. AMK Associates Limited
On 15 July 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of AMK Associates Limited for a total consideration, including acquisition costs,
of £2,035,000. The total consideration includes a deferred payment of £1,400,000 dependent upon future performance. AMK Associates Limited
provides service and maintenance data to the motor industry. The investment has been included in the balance at its fair value at the date
of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) 545 1,137
Property, plant and equipment 88
Trade and other receivables 279 279
Cash and cash equivalents 48 48
Deferred taxation — (341)
Trade and other payables (538) (538)
342 593
Goodwill 1,442
2,035
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 600
Acquisition costs 35
Deferred contingent cash consideration 1,400
2,035
From the date of acquisition the company has contributed £38,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group and £96,000 to its revenues. If the company
had been acquired on 1 October 2005 it would have contributed £511,000 to the revenue and £156,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group.
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships. These customer relationships have a useful economic life of ﬁve
years. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated
synergies due to business processes and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
The deferred consideration above is contingent on performance conditions being met. Of the total deferred consideration £400,000 was paid
in November 2006. The balance of a maximum of £1,000,000 is payable based on a multiple of ﬁve times proﬁt of the acquired entity for the
year to 30 September 2007.
15f. InFront Solutions Limited
During the year, £475,000 was paid as further consideration to previous shareholders of InFront Solutions Limited. This balance had been
accrued for as deferred consideration in the prior year .
15g. Business combination summary for the year ended 30 September 2006
In total the acquisitions made in 2006 added £8,043,000 to intangible assets, £9,614,000 to goodwill, £123,000 to property, plant and equipment,
£494,000 to trade and other receivables, £685,000 to other ﬁnancial assets, £1,414,000 to trade and other payables and £2,532,000 to deferred
taxation.
Total cash payments to acquire these subsidiaries amounted to £11,027,000 with cash acquired with the subsidiaries being £626,000.
Therefore, net cash outﬂow was £10,401,000.
If all of the above acquisitions had been held from 1 October 2005, the start of the ﬁnancial year, they would have contributed £1,730,000 to
the proﬁt before tax of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 61
15. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
15h. Year ended 30 September 2005
On 1 October 2004, the Group acquired the remaining 30% of its subsidiary Statsure (Pty) Limited at a cost of £497,000, which resulted in the
creation of a further £325,000 of goodwill.
At various points during the year ended 30 September 2005 the Group acquired an additional 49.4% in its subsidiary InFront Solutions Limited
at a combined cost of £1,557,000. Of this, the cash outﬂow during the year was £656,000, with the balance of £901,000 being deferred with
£617,000 payable within one year and £284,000 being due after more than one year . This deferred element, which is contingent on the proﬁts
of InFront over the next two years, is included within ‘other payables’ in note 19. These acquisitions bring the Group’s total shareholding in
this company to 84%
On 1 July 2005 the Group acquired 95.3% of Websoft (Pty) Limited for a total cash consideration, including acquisition costs of £1,008,000, the
details of which are as follows:
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) 30 404
Property, plant and equipment 70 70
Trade and other receivables 445 445
Deferred taxation 394 262
Cash and cash equivalents 283 283
Trade and other payables (419) (419)
803 1,045
Minority interests (37)
1,008
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 1,008
In the 2005 annual ﬁnancial statements this acquisition was accounted for under UK GAAP . Under IFRS, the amount of £374,000 previously
shown as goodwill, has been reclassiﬁed as customer relationships. This amount has been fully amortised at 30 September 2006.
In total the acquisitions made in 2005 added £404,000 to intangible ﬁxed assets, £1,882,000 to goodwill, £70,000 to property, plant and equipment,
£445,000 to trade and other receivables and £419,000 to trade and other payables.
Total cash payments to acquire these subsidiaries amounted to £2,187,000 with cash acquired with the subsidiaries being £415,000.
Therefore, net cash outﬂow was £1,772,000.
16. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 14,509 8,819
Other debtors 1,877 840
Accrued income 4,162 2,996
20,548 12,655
All amounts are due within one year . Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and on average have thirty to sixty day settlement terms. 62
17. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Other ﬁnancial assets 685 —
Other ﬁnancial assets above relate to an equity investment acquired as part of the Service Konzept acquisition. The investment is considered
to be short term and is immediately realisable.
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand 18,602 19,603
Short-term deposits 397 153
18,999 19,756
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between
one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit
rates.
Cash and cash equivalents include £8,821,000 (2005: £5,010,000) representing amounts due to repairers and funds held to settle future
maintenance claims as part of the normal administration of the outsourcing businesses. An equal amount representing the liability to the
third parties involved is included as part of the Group’s current and long term liabilities.
Cash held and available for use within the business in our South African operation of £4,293,000 (2005: £2,600,000) continues to be subject to
the normal government imposed exchange controls for that country.
19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Current
Trade payables 2,942 2,037
Other payables 7,378 4,269
Accruals 5,208 4,042
Social security and other taxes 1,818 1,665
17,346 12,013
Non current
Other payables 1,000 400
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and on average have thirty to sixty day settlement terms.
20. DEFERRED INCOME
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Current
Deferred income 12,141 10,104
Non current
Deferred income 1,419 1,830
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 63
21. INSURANCE LIABILITIES
Included within other payables and deferred income are ﬁgures that require separate disclosure under IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts”. These are
as follows:
2006 2005 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other payables (see ‘a’ below) Deferred income (see ‘b’ below)
On-risk contracts
At 1 October 1,423 — 2,326 1,002
Amounts deferred from new policies 2,035 1,762 5,696 3,109
Amounts released to the income statement (1,955) (329) (3,182) (1,863)
Foreign exchange — — (956) 78
At 30 September 1,513 1,433 3,884 2,326
On-risk contracts currently fall into two categories: service and maintenance plan contracts and subsidence contracts.
a Subsidence contracts
In order to manage the risks around these contracts, each individual subsidence claim is assessed for possible repudiation and total
potential exposure to costs if it is not possible to repudiate the claim. Analysis is performed on a regular basis to ensure that there are adequate
funds available to cover the assessed potential exposure to costs. This includes an assessment of costs to complete on a contract by contract
basis. If this percentage remains below 100%, then there are sufﬁcient funds to cover the potential future costs. In both the current and previous
ﬁnancial years, the percentage is below 100%. The contract includes terms to ensure that any excess of three claims greater than £75,000
are reverted to the insurer. The insurance company is invoiced in advance for claims so cash is always available to meet the repair costs.
Since October 2006 all amounts are re-insured.
b Service and maintenance plans
In order to manage the risks around these contracts all vehicles are assessed in terms of make, model, age and distance driven to date.
Service plan contracts are only sold for vehicles if the above criteria fall within set parameters.
Fund burn analyses are performed periodically to ensure that there are adequate funds available to pay future expected claims. If this percentage
remains below 100%, then the fund is sufﬁcient to cover future claims. In both the current and previous ﬁnancial years, the percentage is
below 100%.
The Group has on-risk contracts for both service and maintenance plans. The ratio at the end of the year is 97% service and 3% maintenance
(2005: 95% and 5%). As these plans can be priced accurately due to parts having to be replaced at speciﬁc intervals, risk due to uncertainty
is mitigated to satisfactory levels.
Both service and maintenance plans expire on the earlier of either the ﬁxed length of the plan or the distance limit being reached.
These contracts are not re-insured as management believe it is possible to price the contracts very accurately. 64
22. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,730 —
Other loans 1,148 800
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 495 430
3,373 1,230
Non current
Bank loans and overdrafts 3,962 —
Other loans 3,152 3,000
Convertible loan notes — 1,077
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 510 526
7,624 4,603
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Borrowings
Bank loans 5,692 —
Other loans (secured) 4,300 3,800
Convertible loan notes — 1,077
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 1,005 956
10,997 5,833
Due within one year or on demand
Bank loans 1,730 —
Other loans (secured) 1,148 800
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 495 430
Due between one and two years
Bank loans 1,730 —
Other loans (secured) 1,148 800
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 370 330
Due between two and ﬁve years
Bank loans 2,232 —
Other loans (secured) 2,004 2,200
Convertible loan notes — 1,077
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 140 196
10,997 5,833
Finance leases are secured on the underlying assets.
Future minimum payments due are as follows:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Due within one year or on demand 563 500
Due between one and two years 421 379
Due between two years and ﬁve years 151 160
1,135 1,039
Future ﬁnance charge (130) (83)
1,005 956
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 65
22. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
The bank loan advanced during the year represents a €10,000,000 facility utilised by the Group to purchase Innovation Property AG (previously
Service Konzept AG). See Note 15a for further information on this transaction. This loan is repayable according to a standard quarterly repayment
schedule ending on 1 December 2009. The loan bears interest at 2% above the European Interbank rate (Euribor) and is paid on a quarterly basis.
Other loans comprise a mortgage of £4,300,000 (2005: £3,800,000) secured on the Group’s two freehold premises and is repayable according
to a standard quarterly repayment schedule ending on 2 January 2010. The mortgage bears interest at 1.5% above LIBOR and is paid on a
quarterly basis. This facility was extended by £1,300,000 during the year to repay existing convertible loan notes (see below).
There are no undrawn amounts under the facilities noted above at 30 September 2006 (30 September 2005: £nil).
As part of the terms and conditions of the bank loan, the Group has to satisfy a number of covenants on a quarterly basis. Since the date of the
advancement of the bank loan and to the date of approval of the ﬁnancial statements, these covenants have not been breached. In the previous
ﬁnancial year, there was a single covenant on the property mortgage. This covenant was not breached in the prior year .
The convertible loan notes were denominated in US dollars and were convertible into ordinary shares at par at the option of the note holder
at any time or would become repayable on 31 December 2007. The convertible loan notes bore interest at 10% per annum. The Group had
separated the convertible loan notes into two components in accordance with IAS 32. In calculating the value of the two components the Group
has assumed the comparable debt only interest rate to be 16% per annum. The fair value of the derivative element of the loans was reﬂected
in the balance sheet as at 30 September 2005 with any movement in the derivative element recorded in the income statement. On 23 September
2006 these convertible loan notes were repaid in full at par . The cumulative derivative element arising to the date of repayment was released
to the income statement. As at 30 September 2005 the convertible shares were convertible into 2,572,499 ordinary shares.
Finance leases held by the Group primarily relate to the rental of ﬁxtures & ﬁttings and computer equipment for Group companies to utilise
in the course of their business. The leases cover periods of between two to ﬁve years and are payable under terms with equal monthly or
quarterly instalments. There are no other signiﬁcant restrictions in place in regards to these assets.
23. PROVISIONS
Property NI on share
leases options Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 September 2006
Balance at 1 October 2005 404 480 884
Additions in the year —7070
Utilised in the year (163) — (163)
Released in the year (6) — (6)
Balance at 30 September 2006 235 550 785
Non-current liabilities — 550 550
Current liabilities 235 — 235
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the coming 24 month period. There are no signiﬁcant assumptions included in calculating these
provisions and the amounts provided are known with reasonable certainty.
Property NI on share
leases options Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 September 2005
Balance at 1 October 2004 775 283 1,058
Additions in the year — 202 202
Utilised in the year (136) (5) (141)
Released in the year (235) — (235)
Balance at 30 September 2005 404 480 884
Non-current liabilities 244 480 724
Current liabilities 160 — 160 66
23. PROVISIONS continued
NI on share options
The share option provision reﬂects the directors’ estimate of the employer’s national insurance and other similar tax liabilities arising on
outstanding share options. This is matched by an amount recoverable from the relevant employees, which is included within other debtors.
Property leases
The property lease provision relates to the cost of onerous lease contracts following the closure of certain locations in previous ﬁnancial periods.
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Objectives, policies and strategies
The Group’s objective has been to ﬁnance acquisitions through new capital and cash reserves. Investments in intangible ﬁxed assets, property,
plant and equipment have been made through cash and ﬁnance lease borrowings.
The Group’s policy towards using ﬁnancial instruments is to manage credit, interest rate, liquidity and currency exposure risk without
exposing the Group to undue risk or speculation. The policy is kept under review by the directors according to the Group’s foreign exchange
and treasury policy.
Risk management
The risks arising from the Group’s operations are explained below.
Credit risk
The Group monitors its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. Cash investments are only allowed in liquid securities with major
ﬁnancial institutions that satisfy speciﬁc criteria. The maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying
value of ﬁnancial assets and there are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk.
Interest rate risk
Interest bearing ﬁnancial assets comprise cash, and other debtors and receivables (all due within one year). Interest bearing ﬁnancial liabilities
comprise, net obligations under ﬁnance leases, a bank loan used to fund the Service Konzept acquisition and property mortgages (see note 22
for maturity proﬁle). In 2005 interest bearing ﬁnancial liabilities also included convertible loan notes, which were repaid on 23 September 2006.
The Group currently relies on the natural hedge of ﬁnancial assets versus ﬁnancial liabilities to manage the risk arising from changes to
ﬂoating interest rates. It is the policy of the Group to hold assets under ﬂoating interest rates.
The interest rate risk proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is as follows:
Financial assets
Year ended 30 September 2006
Floating Fixed
rate rate Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling 3,948 — 3,948
US dollar 705 — 705
Canadian dollar 149 — 149
Euro 956 — 956
South African rand 11,824 — 11,824
Australian dollar 865 — 865
Japanese yen 10 — 10
Pakistan rupees 145 397 542
18,602 397 18,999
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 67
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest on the ﬁxed rate assets held in Pakistan rupees is at an annual rate of up to 10.5%. The investment matures on 26 October 2006.
The interest rate risk proﬁle above details cash and cash equivalents only. All other ﬁnancial assets are non-interest bearing. Interest on ﬂoating
rate assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates, with short-term deposits being made for varying periods of between one and
seven days depending upon the immediate cash requirements of the Group. Interest rates on these assets range from 0% to 8% depending
on the type of account and the location of the Group entity.
Year ended 30 September 2005
Floating Fixed
rate rate Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling 5,367 — 5,367
US dollar 3,729 — 3,729
Canadian dollar 759 — 759
Euro 1,522 — 1,522
South African rand 6,962 — 6,962
Australian dollar 960 — 960
Japanese yen 184 — 184
Pakistan rupees 120 153 273
19,603 153 19,756
Interest on the ﬁxed rate asset was at an annual rate of 6.9%. The investment was held on a 30 day deposit and matured on 3 October 2005.
Interest on ﬂoating rate assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates, with short-term deposits being made for varying periods
of between one and four days depending upon the immediate cash requirements of the Group, earning interest at the respective short term
deposit rates.
Financial liabilities – by maturity
Year ended 30 September 2006 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5
1 year years years years years Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Floating rate 
Euro bank loan 1,683 1,683 1,683 456 — 5,505
Sterling bank loan 47 47 47 46 — 187
Sterling property mortgage 1,148 1,148 1,148 856 — 4,300
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and 
hire purchase obligations 495 370 140 — — 1,005
3,373 3,248 3,018 1,358 — 10,997
Year ended 30 September 2005 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5
1 year years years years years Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Floating rate 
Sterling property mortgage 800 800 800 800 600 3,800
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and 
hire purchase obligations 430 330 196 — — 956
Fixed rate
US dollar convertible debt — — 1,077 — — 1,077
1,230 1,130 2,073 800 600 5,833
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing. 68
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funds are principally held either as cash or short term money market investments. Short term receivables and payables have
been excluded from the disclosures as they are non-interest bearing and fair value approximates carrying value.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
A summary of the fair values and book values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is noted below. Market values have been used
to determine the fair value of the listed ﬁnancial assets. The fair values of all other items have been calculated by discounting expected future
cash ﬂows at the prevailing interest rates.
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated
amount fair value amount fair value
2006 2006 2005 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial liabilities
Convertible loan note —— 1,077 1,388
Bank loans 5,692 5,692 ——
Other loans 4,300 4,300 3,800 3,800
Obligations under ﬁnance lease and hire purchase agreements 1,005 1,005 956 956
10,997 10,997 5,833 6,144
Financial assets
Fixed asset investments 32 32 158 158
Other ﬁnancial assets 685 685 ——
Cash at bank and in hand 18,602 18,602 19,603 19,603
Short term deposits 397 397 153 153
19,716 19,716 19,914 19,914
Currency risk
Currency exposure arises through intra-group loans and trading balances throughout all group locations. Natural hedging is employed, to
the extent possible, to minimise net exposures, however where signiﬁcant exposures arise outside of intra-group trading, it is Group policy
to enter in to formal hedging arrangements where these can be shown to be effective. It is currently management’s opinion that there is no
need for any such arrangements at this point in time.
Currency exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency
of the operating unit involved, other than those borrowings treated as hedges of foreign equity investments. In general all overseas operating
units trade in their operating currency. The parent company has long term intercompany loans designated in foreign currency. As these are
of a long term nature, any foreign exchange arising is taken straight to reserves.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 69
25. SHARE CAPITAL
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Authorised share capital
1,000,000,000 (2005: 1,000,000,000) ordinary shares of 2 pence each 20,000 20,000
2006 2005
No. £’000 No. £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 2 pence each 451,501,928 9,030 439,641,679 8,793
The following share issues took place during the year.
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
19 January 2006 Service Konzept AG consideration 9,300,754 0.295 2,741,397
3 February 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
21 February 2006 Exercise of options 25,000 0.140 3,500
7 March 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
7 April 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
1 June 2006 Prophit Share Limited consideration 1,926,164 0.312 600,000
17 July 2006 Exercise of options 308,333 0.140 43,167
17 August 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
31 August 2006 Exercise of options 33,334 0.136 4,533
The following share issues took place during the previous ﬁnancial year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
1 October 2004 InterX deferred consideration 3,700,277 0.270 1,000,000
22 August 2005 Exercise of options 1,819 0.020 36
22 August 2005 Exercise of options 446,666 0.136 60,747
23 August 2005 Exercise of options 500,000 0.136 68,000
19 September 2005 Exercise of options 133,332 0.136 18,133
26. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
The Group operates three equity settled share-based payment arrangements: the unapproved company share option scheme, the global share
option and incentive plan and the performance share plan. A summary of the main terms of the arrangements is given below, with particular
reference to the terms of those grants for which a share-based payment charge has been recognised.
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
No grants have been made under this scheme since 10 August 2000 and it is the expectation of management that the scheme will not be used
in the future. There are no performance conditions attached to these options. All options issued under this scheme are signiﬁcantly underwater .
Due to the early date of grant no share-based payment charge has been recognised for any options under this scheme.
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Options granted under this scheme have historically been to senior executives and management across the Group, as well as to staff with
high potential or to recognise signiﬁcant achievements. Under this scheme options will usually vest after between two and ﬁve years and
be exercisable between two and ten years following grant, provided that the employee remains in employment at the date of exercise.
Options issued up to 16 March 2004 have no performance conditions attached. Awards issued after this date will vest and become exercisable
between the given dates if EPS growth, adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles, share-based payment charges and any adjustments
required in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may arise as made at the discretion of the remuneration committee, exceeds 3%
per annum. The base EPS is that for the year ended 30 September 2004. Future options under this scheme will vest based on EPS growth
plus 10%. No awards have been granted under this scheme in the current year . 70
26. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Awards under this scheme are made to senior executives and managers across the Group. The awards will vest subject to meeting the following
two performance conditions. Vesting of up to 50 per cent. of the award is based upon the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to
the TSR of a comparator group of other companies comprising the software and computer services and the support services sector of the FTSE,
over a three year performance period ending 30 September 2007. If the Group’s TSR growth ranks below the 50th percentile over the three year
period 0 per cent. of the award will vest. At the 50th percentile 15 per cent. will vest and at 75 per cent. or above, 50 per cent. will vest. Between
the 50th and 75th percentile vesting will occur on a straight line basis. Vesting of the remaining 50 per cent. of the award will be subject to the
growth of the Group’s EPS. 15 per cent. of an award will vest for total EPS growth of 12 per cent. above RPI over the performance period, with
50 per cent. of an award vesting for total EPS growth of 45 per cent. or more above RPI over the performance period. Between these points,
vesting will occur on a straight line basis. No awards were issued under this scheme in the current year .
The number of shares subject to options (including those granted to executive directors), the date on which they were granted and the periods
in which they may be exercised are given below:
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2006 2005
No. No.
24 May 2000 £2.29 a Between 2 and 10 years 795,000 795,000
31 May 2000 £2.29 a Between 2 and 10 years 130,000 130,000
26 June 2000 £3.24 a Between 2 and 10 years 20,000 20,000
10 August 2000 £4.64 a Between 2 and 10 years 398,500 512,350
1,343,500 1,457,350
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2006 2005
No. No.
15 June 2001 £0.02 a Between 2 and 10 years 7,566 13,001
16 July 2001 £2.97 a Between 2 and 10 years 500,000 500,000
19 October 2001 £2.46 a Between 2 and 10 years 2,376,888 2,510,888
1 May 2003 £0.073 a Between 2 and 10 years 450,000 450,000
18 August 2003 £0.136 a Between 2 and 10 years 8,034,566 8,333,167
18 August 2003 £0.136 a Between 3 and 10 years 4,073,767 4,225,166
3 October 2003 £0.14 a Between 2 and 10 years 666,667 1,000,000
3 October 2003 £0.14 a Between 3 and 10 years 500,000 500,000
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,184,109 1,323,597
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 3 and 10 years 592,055 661,798
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 4 and 10 years 592,055 661,800
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 2 and 10 years 1,216,666 1,216,666
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 3 and 10 years 1,216,667 1,216,667
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 4 and 10 years 1,216,667 1,216,667
22 December 2004 £0.360 a Between 12 and 18 months 150,000 150,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 3 and 10 years — 250,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 4 and 10 years — 250,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 5 and 10 years — 250,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 3 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 4 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 5 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
23,227,673 25,179,417
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 71
26. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Performance Share Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2006 2005
No. No.
19 August 2005 £0.00 c 19 August 2008 4,610,000 4,610,000
Performance conditions
a These options had no performance conditions attached.
b Performance conditions detailed in ‘Global Share Option and Incentive Plan’ above.
c Performance conditions detailed in ‘Performance Share Plan’ above.
The movements in the number of share options and shares under the “PSP” scheme is shown below.
Unapproved Company Global Share Option
Share Option Scheme and Incentive Plan Performance Share Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average Number of average
awards exercise price awards exercise price Awards exercise price
Outstanding at 1 October 2004 2,485,350 £2.87 28,060,288 £0.65 — —
Granted — — 1,350,000 £0.39 4,610,000 0.00
Exercised — — (1,079,998) £0.14 — —
Forfeited (303,000) £2.50 (2,023,873) £2.05 — —
Cancelled (725,000) £2.50 (1,127,000) £2.05
Outstanding at 30 September 2005 1,457,350 £3.13 25,179,417 £0.48 4,610,000 0.00
Exercisable at 30 September 2005 1,457,350 £3.13 11,807,056 £0.75 — —
Exercised — — (633,331) £0.14 — —
Forfeited (113,850) £4.64 (1,318,413) £0.55 — —
Outstanding at 30 September 2006 1,343,500 £3.00 23,227,673 £0.49 4,610,000 0.00
Exercisable at 30 September 2006 1,343,500 £3.00 18,660,229 £0.53 — —
Range of exercise prices
Years ended 30 September 2005 and 2006 £2.29–£4.64 £0.02–£2.97 £0.00
Weighted average remaining contractual life
Year ended 30 September 2006 3.79 years 6.91 years 1.88 years
Year ended 30 September 2005 4.81 years 7.95 years 2.88 years
Included within this balance are options over 4,227,954 (2005: 4,481,239) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2
as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modiﬁed and therefore do not need
to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year to 30 September 2006 was £0.30 (2005: £0.27). 72
26. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Assumptions used in the valuation of share-based payments
In calculating the fair value of the share-based payment arrangements under the Global Share Option and Incentive Plan and the Performance
Share Plan, the Group has used the Hull White trinomial model. The fair value of the share options and options under the “PSP” scheme granted
in 2006 and 2005 and the assumptions used in the calculation of their fair value on the date of grant were as follows:
2006 2005
Unapproved Global Share Unapproved Global Share
Company Share Option and Performance Company Share Option and Performance
Option Scheme Incentive Plan Share Plan Option Scheme Incentive Plan Share Plan
Weighted average assumptions
Fair value per share option ——— — £0.204 £0.188
Share price on date of grant ——— — £0.393 £0.29
Exercise price ——— — £0.393 £0.00
Share options granted in the year ——— — 1,350,000 4,610,000
Vesting period (years) ——— — 3.67 3
Expected volatility ——— — 58% 50%
Expected life (years) ——— — Note 1 n/a
Risk-free rate of return ——— — 4.75% 4.5%
No awards were granted under any scheme during the year ended 30 September 2006.
The option valuation also took into account management’s assessment of the likely achievement of the market condition relating to total
shareholder return.
Note 1: As all of the awards made under made under the Global Share Option and Incentive Plan in 2005 were to senior management it was
assumed these would be exercised at the earliest opportunity provided the market price is at least 30% above the option price.
Expected volatility was determined using the historic volatility of the Company’s share price over the expected life of the option.
At the date of grant, it was assumed that the non-market performance conditions for all awards would be met. Adjustments will be made
in future periods, where necessary, to reﬂect updated assessments of whether the performance conditions will be met. The share-based
payment expense also takes into account the expected and actual forfeitures over the vesting period as a result of cessation of employment.
A charge of £928,000 (2005: £1,239,000) has been made in the income statement to spread the fair value of the share options under the Global
and Share Option and Incentive Plan and awards under the “PSP” scheme according to the vesting period of the award. The Group has taken
advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS2 and has applied the standard only to those awards granted after 7 November 2002, which had
not vested by 1 January 2005.
27. OBLIGATIONS UNDER OPERATING LEASES
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of equipment. At 30 September 2006 the Group had outstanding
commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2006 2005 2006 2005
Future minimum lease payments payable £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year 1,319 1,291 106 165
Between one and two years 1,083 1,131 59 73
Between two and ﬁve years 1,401 1,958 30 40
After ﬁve years 25 155 — —
3,828 4,535 195 278
Group companies other than the parent have sublet ofﬁce space in certain properties. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be
received under non-cancellable sublease agreements as at 30 September 2006 is £393,000 (2005: £686,000). Operating leases operated by the
Group primarily relate to the rental of ofﬁce space for the use of Group companies. The leases cover periods of between two to six years and
the majority of these leases have options to renew at the expiry of these periods. An extension of the lease would typically be associated by an
escalation in the level of the rent payable on the lease in line with market changes. There are no other signiﬁcant restrictions in place in
regards to the assets being leased.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 73
28. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
28a. Sureplan International Pty Ltd
On 25 October 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Sureplan International Pty Ltd for a cash consideration of approx. £3,500,000
(US$6,500,000). A further payment to a maximum of approx. £4,000,000 (US$7,500,000) has been deferred and is payable upon achieving a speciﬁed
percentage of net proﬁt before tax for the year ending 30 September 2009.
Sureplan International Pty Ltd owns a 51% controlling interest in Sureplan USA Inc., which supplies outsourced claims management services
to the vehicle leasing industry in the United States of America. The acquisition is part of the outsourcing segment in North America.
Given the proximity to the year-end, the Group is still in the process of allocating fair values.
28b. Holmswood and Back and Manson (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd
On 1 November 2006 the Group acquired 68.72% of the share capital of Holmswood and Back and Manson (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd for a total
cash consideration of approx. £5,450,000 (ZAR 70,900,000). In addition, there exists a put option, exercisable at the discretion of a minority
shareholder by no later than 31 October 2009, for the Group to acquire an additional 30.58 per cent. of HBM from such minority shareholder
on the same valuation basis as the present transaction, limited to a maximum additional consideration of approx. £4,600,000 (ZAR 66,150,000).
Holmswood and Back and Manson (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, through its subsidiary is the leading provider of travel insurance administration and
insurance consulting services in South Africa. The acquisition forms part of the outsourcing segment in South Africa.
Given the proximity to the year end the Group is still in the process of allocating fair values.
28c. First Notice Systems Inc.
On 2 November 2006, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of First Notice Systems, Inc., a leading provider of claim reporting outsourcing
services and software to the property and casualty insurance markets in the US. The total cash consideration of $51,550,000 (£27,100,000) was
funded entirely by the rights issue detailed below. This acquisition is due to complete on 22 December 2006.
28d. Rights Issue
On 13 December 2006, the parent company of the Group, The Innovation Group plc, completed a rights issue. This rights issue was undertaken
on the basis of 2 new ordinary shares for every pre-existing 5 ordinary shares. The total number of new shares issued as part of the rights issue
was 180,600,771 at a price of 21 pence per share. This increased the number of issued shares in the company from 451,501,928 to 632,102,699.
The rights issue raised approximately £37.9m (before expenses).
29. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
At 30 September 2006 there was no capital expenditure (2005: £nil) contracted for and not provided in the ﬁnancial statements.
The Group has guaranteed a line of credit to the buyer of the trade and assets of The Innovation Group/MTW Inc. to the extent of £226,000 ($400,000)
in both the current and previous ﬁnancial years. At the end of the current ﬁnancial year this had been drawn down in full (2005: £nil).
30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not included
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Amounts 
Sales to owed by
Trading transactions related party related party
£’000 £’000
Conversant Data Limited
2006 626
2005 ——
Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited
2006 1,667 —
2005 1,613 —
The balance owed by Conversant Data Limited at 30 September 2006 is unsecured and will be settled in cash. 74
30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management, recognised in the income statement, is set out below in aggregate.
Key management are deﬁned as the Board of the Innovation Group plc and other persons deﬁned as “persons discharging management
responsibility” under the rules of the Financial Services Authority. Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is disclosed within
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee beneﬁts 1,309 1,201
Post-employment beneﬁts 117 85
Share-based payments 482 576
1,908 1,862
31. TRANSITION TO IFRS
In accordance with IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” the Group is required to present reconciliations
of its equity at the date of transition to IFRS (1 October 2004), at the previous year’s balance sheet date (30 September 2005) (see note 31b).
Reconciliations of the Group’s proﬁt for the year ended 30 September 2005 is also required (see note 31a).
There was no material effect on the underlying cash generation and expenditures of the Group, however there were some presentational changes
on the adoption of IAS 7 “Cash Flow Statements”. Under IFRS, short-term investments are shown as cash and cash equivalents. These were
previously excluded under UK GAAP. For the year to 30 September 2005, these short-term investments amounted to £153,000.
31a. Effect of IFRS adoption on proﬁt/(loss) for the prior ﬁnancial year
Year to
30 September
2005
Note £’000
Loss for the period as previously reported under UK GAAP (12,713)
UK GAAP adjustment – Share of proﬁt from associate A 641
IFRS adjustments
Share based payments B (1,239)
Employee beneﬁts C (111)
Financial instruments E 62
Goodwill and intangible assets F 14,170
Income taxes G (265)
Proﬁt for the year reported under IFRS 545
31b. Effect of IFRS adoption on equity
1 October 30 September
2004 2005
Note £’000 £’000
Total equity reported under UK GAAP 36,229 24,148
UK GAAP adjustment – Investments accounted for using the equity method A — 656
IFRS adjustments
Share based payments B ——
Employee beneﬁts C (52) (163)
Foreign exchange rates D ——
Financial instruments E (6) 56
Goodwill and intangible assets F — 13,905
Income taxes G ——
Total equity reported under IFRS 36,171 38,602
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 75
31. TRANSITION TO IFRS continued
31. Explanatory notes to the IFRS adjustments
Transitional arrangements upon first time adoption of IFRS (IFRS 1)
IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” sets out the transition rules, which must be applied, when IFRS
is adopted for the ﬁrst time. The standard sets out certain mandatory exemptions to retrospective application and certain optional exemptions.
The most signiﬁcant optional exemptions available and taken by the Group are as follows:
  the Group has elected not to apply the provisions of IFRS 2, ‘Share Based Payments’ to options granted on or before 7 November 2002;
  the Group has elected not to retrospectively apply the provisions of IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’, to acquisitions that occurred prior to
the Group’s transition date of 1 October 2004. Therefore, business combinations prior to this date have not been restated; and
  The Group has taken advantage of the one-off exemption available to reset cumulative exchange differences on net investment in
foreign operations to zero at the date of transition.
The primary statements have been presented in a format consistent with IFRS. The material adjustments between the amounts presented
under UK GAAP and the amounts presented under IFRS for the year ended 30 September 2005 are detailed below.
A. UK GAAP adjustment – Investments accounted for using the equity method
The Group owns 100% of the rights associated with a cell captive structure, which itself is part of Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited
(registered in South Africa). The cell meets the deﬁnition of a “Special Purpose Entity” (SPE) in accordance with SIC 12 under IFRS and an associate
under UK GAAP. In previous years the investment has been treated as a ﬁxed asset investment held at cost in the balance sheet.
The UK GAAP results for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been restated to reﬂect this change. The Group’s share of net proﬁt has been
brought into the income statement with the investment accounted for using the equity method in the balance sheet.
The above treatment has resulted in an increase in share of proﬁt from associate of £641,000, an increase in investments accounted for using
the equity method of £656,000 and a reduction in translation reserves of £15,000 for the year ended 30 September 2005.
SIC 12 requires a SPE to be consolidated in full where the relationship indicates control exists. Despite the 100% shareholding, management
believe that the Group does not control the cell. The Group is however able to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence due to the following:
  ability to participate in the dividend policy;
  material transactions between the Group and the cell; and
  the Group provides essential technical information.
Due to the exercise of signiﬁcant inﬂuence the cell has been also accounted for as an associate using the equity method under IFRS.
B. Share based payments (IFRS 2)
In accordance with IFRS 2 the Group has recognised a charge to income representing the fair value of outstanding employee share options and
options under the ‘Performance Share Plan’ issued since 7 November 2002 and which vest on or after 1 January 2005. This charge has been
spread according to the vesting period of the option. As a result, £949,000 has been charged to periods prior to 30 September 2004. The charge
to the IFRS income statement in the year to 30 September 2005 was £1,239,000.
In calculating the fair value of these options the Group has used the Hull White trinomial model using the following variables:
Expected option life 2 – 4 years depending on vesting period
Volatility 42% – 131% depending on date of grant
Risk free rate 3.5% – 4.75% depending on date of grant
C. Employee benefits (IAS 19)
The Group has complied with the provision of IAS 19 and has accrued holiday pay for all staff from the date of transition. A charge of £111,000
has been recorded in the IFRS income statement for the year ended 30 September 2005, representing the movement on holidays accrued, but
not taken, at the balance sheet date. 76
31. TRANSITION TO IFRS continued
D. The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates (IAS 21)
The Group has taken advantage of the one-off exemption available to reset cumulative exchange differences on net investment in foreign
operations to zero at the date of transition.
Cumulative exchange differences on net investment in foreign operations from 1 October 2004 are now shown in a separate foreign exchange
reserve.
E. Financial instruments (IAS 32 and IAS 39)
The Group has separated the convertible loan notes into two components in accordance with IAS 32. In calculating the value of the two
components, the Group has assumed the comparable debt only interest rate to be 16%. The fair value of the derivative element of the loans
has been reﬂected in the balance sheet. Any movement in the derivative element has been recorded in the income statement. All adjustments
have been made retrospectively.
F. Goodwill and Intangible Assets (IAS 36 and IFRS 3)
IAS 36 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill. Goodwill is only written down when an annual impairment test suggests the carrying value is
overstated. The goodwill amortisation charge to 30 September 2005 of £14,170,000 under UK GAAP has been reversed under IFRS.
An amortisation charge of £94,000 has been recorded in the IFRS income statement to 30 September 2005 representing amortisation on
separately identiﬁable intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Websoft (Pty) Limited on 1 July 2005.
G. Income taxes (IAS 12)
In accordance with IAS 12 the Group has considered the current and future tax consequences of the carrying amounts of all assets and liabilities.
As a result, an operating cost of £265,000 has been recorded in the IFRS income statement for the year ended 30 September 2005 for the
utilisation of £882,000 of tax losses by InFront Solutions Limited. The corresponding entry has been made against the goodwill capitalised
in the year resulting from the Group’s increased shareholding in that company.
The effects of tax deductions for share-based payment under Schedule 23 have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset as it cannot be
shown that there will be sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts in future periods against which these deductions can be offset.
H. Research and development (IAS 38 – Intangible Assets)
Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred in the development of software and hardware products, and their related intellectual property rights, is capitalised as
an intangible asset only when:
  technical feasibility has been demonstrated;
  adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources exist to complete the development, which the Group intends to complete and use;
  future economic beneﬁts expected to arise are deemed probable; and
  the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised development costs are
amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives once the related software and hardware products are available to use.
In the opinion of management there were no development projects meeting the above criteria in the current or previous year .
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 77
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements
for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for
that period. In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are
required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
ﬁnancial statements; and
  prepare the ﬁnancial statements on a going concern basis unless
it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in
business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the company and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities. 78
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
THE INNOVATION GROUP PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
The Innovation Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2006, which
comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 14. These
parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of
The Innovation Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report
is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in
the directors’ report includes that speciﬁc information presented in
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement and the
Finance Director’s Review that is cross referenced from the Review of
the Business section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed
by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement,
the Finance Director’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement
and Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates
and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent
company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent
company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at
30 September 2006;
  the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with
the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Reading
18 December 2006 79
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Year ended 30 September 2006
2006 2005
Note £’000 £’000
FIXED ASSETS
Investments 3 66,276 55,773
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 4 910 521
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 4 19,607 19,184
Debtors 20,517 19,705
Cash at bank and in hand 1,037 2,593
21,554 22,298
CREDITORS: amounts falling due within one year 5 (7,092) (16,124)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 14,462 6,174
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 80,738 61,947
CREDITORS: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible loan notes 6 — (1,249)
Other creditors 6 (1,000) (284)
(1,000) (1,533)
PROVISION FOR LIABILITIES 7 (550) (480)
NET ASSETS 79,188 59,934
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 8 9,030 8,793
Share premium account 10 2,706 75
Merger reserve 10 561 —
Proﬁt and loss account 10 66,891 51,066
EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 79,188 59,934
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 December 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
P Smolinski
Director 80
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”). The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements are set out below
and have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year . The company has taken advantage of the exemption provided
under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual proﬁt and loss account and related notes.
In these ﬁnancial statements, the following UK Financial Reporting Standards have been adopted for the ﬁrst time:
FRS 20 Share based payments
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date
FRS 23 The effects of changes on foreign exchange rates
FRS 24 Financial reporting in Hyper-inﬂationary economies
FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation and disclosure
FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts
The accounting policies under these new standards are set out below together with an indication of the effects of their adoption. Other than
stated, there are no material effects from the adoption of these standards. FRS 28 ‘Corresponding amounts’ has had no material effect as it
imposes the same requirement for comparatives as hitherto required by the Companies Act 1985.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Investments in unquoted equity investments, which do not have a reliable market value are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in
value. For investments where there is an actively traded market the investment is stated at fair value, determined by reference to a quoted market
bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on
translation are included in the proﬁt and loss account.
Taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to
pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in
which they are included in ﬁnancial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not
that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Dividends
Dividends are recorded as a liability once formally approved.
Share-based payments
Employees (including directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees
render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted using
an appropriate model.
A cost is recorded where the employee performs a signiﬁcant majority of their services together with an assessment based on where they
are contractually employed and where their other remuneration is incurred. Since there are no employees within The Innovation Group plc
no charge has been recorded in the current or previous year .
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Convertible loan
The component of the convertible loan that exhibits characteristics of a liability is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, net of transaction
costs. On issuance of the convertible loan, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent non-
convertible bond; and this amount is carried as a long term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
Where applicable the remainder of the proceeds is allocated either to the conversion option that is recognised and included in shareholders’
equity or the fair value of the derivative element that is recognised in the balance sheet, where it meets the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial liability.
Any movement in the derivative element is recorded in the proﬁt and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of an exemption in FRS 26 and has not restated ﬁnancial instruments in the comparative period to comply
with FRS 26 and FRS 25. This has resulted in a charge of £62,000 to the proﬁt and loss account for the year ended 30 September 2006 representing
the reversal of the movement in the derivative element following repayment.
In the previous year the convertible loan was held at the amount of net proceeds after the deduction of issue costs. The carrying amount is increased
by the ﬁnance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period. Convertible debt is reported as a liability
unless and until conversion actually occurs. No gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
2. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its proﬁt and loss account. The parent company’s proﬁt
for the year ended 30 September 2006 was £15,769,000 (2005: £8,731,000).
3. INVESTMENTS
Shares in subsidiary Other Loans to other
undertakings investments investments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The Company
Cost
At 1 October 2005 518,348 6,546 311 525,205
Additions 9,549 1,079 — 10,628
Disposals — (6,366) (311) (6,677)
At 30 September 2006 527,897 1,259 — 529,156
At 1 October 2005 462,825 6,296 311 469,432
Provision in the year — 55 — 55
Disposals — (6,296) (311) (6,607)
At 30 September 2006 462,825 55 — 462,880
Net book value
At 30 September 2006 65,072 1,204 — 66,276
At 30 September 2005 55,523 250 — 55,773
Other investments held at 30 September 2006 represent a shareholding of 2,937,500 ordinary shares in The Claims People Group plc, a company
listed on the Alternative Investment Market and the Company’s investments in associates. See the table below for details of the shareholdings
in the associates at the year end. Investments in associates amounted to £1,171,000.
In December 2005, the Company disposed of its shareholding in Insurance Decisions Inc. for a cash consideration of £55,000. On 31 January 2006
the Company acquired a 25% holding in Conversant Data Limited for a cash consideration of £1,029,000, in addition the investment in I.V.R.B.
Limited was increased by £50,000.
Other investments held at 30 September 2005 are represent the Group’s 10% stake in Insurance Decisions Inc. (“IDI”), 2,937,500 ordinary shares
in The Claims People Group plc, a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market and the Company’s investments in associates. Investments
in associates amounted to £92,000. 82
3. INVESTMENTS continued
The Company held the following investments in principal subsidiary undertakings during the year:
Direct/indirect 
Country of holding and percentage 
Subsidiary undertakings incorporation of ordinary shares held
Software
The Innovation Group (EMEA) Limited UK Direct 100%
The Innovation Group Australia Pty Limited Australia Indirect 100%
The Innovation Group Japan Pty Limited Australia Indirect 100%
The Innovation Group Inc USA Indirect 100%
The Innovation Group (TIG) Limited Canada Direct 100%
TiG — Netsol (Pvt) Limited * Pakistan Direct 49.5%
Outsourcing
Motorcare Services Limited UK Indirect 100%
The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited (formally eQuals Group (Proprietary) Limited) South Africa Direct 100%
Innovation Group Motor GmbH (formally The Innovation Group (SBPO) GmbH) Germany Indirect 100%
Innovation Group Property AG (formally Service Konzept AG) Germany Indirect 100%
InFront Solutions Limited UK Direct 84%
Sureplan Australia (Pty) Limited Australia Direct 100%
Property
DIMO Computing Limited UK Direct 100%
Associates – Outsourcing
Conversant Data Limited UK Direct 25%
I.V.R.B. Limited UK Direct 30%
Cell captive within Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited ** South Africa Indirect 100%
* The Directors have concluded that the Group exercises a dominant inﬂuence over this company, as it is able to control its operating and
ﬁnancial decisions through its position on the Board.
** The Directors have concluded that the Group exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the cell captive but is unable to exercise control.
4. DEBTORS
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 19,607 19,184
Other debtors 910 521
20,517 19,705
£19,607,000 (2005: £19,184,000) is due after more than one year
5. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Accruals — 125
Other creditors 986 2,124
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 6,106 13,875
7,092 16,124
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 83
6. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER ONE YEAR
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Convertible loan notes — 1,249
Other creditors 1,000 284
1,000 1,533
The convertible loan notes were denominated in US dollars and were convertible into ordinary shares at par at the option of the note holder
at any time or would become repayable on 31 December 2007. On 23 September 2006 these convertible loan notes were repaid in full. Prior
to redemption the convertible loan notes bore interest at 10% per annum. As at 30 September 2005, the convertible loan notes were convertible
into 2,572,499 ordinary shares.
7. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
NI on share options
£’000
Balance at 1 October 2005 480
Additions in the year 70
Balance at 30 September 2006 550
This provision is expected to be utilised over the coming 24 month period. There are no signiﬁcant assumptions included in calculating this
provision and the amounts provided are known with reasonable certainty.
The share option provision reﬂects the directors’ estimate of the employer’s national insurance and other similar tax liabilities arising on
outstanding share options. This is matched by an amount recoverable from the relevant employees, which is included within other debtors.
The company had no unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date (2005: £nil).
8. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Authorised share capital
1,000,000,000 (2005: 1,000,000,000) ordinary shares of 2 pence each 20,000 20,000
2006 2005
No. £’000 No. £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 2 pence each 451,501,928 9,030 439,641,679 8,793
The following share issues took place during the year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
19 January 2006 Service Konzept AG consideration 9,300,754 0.295 2,741,397
3 February 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
21 February 2006 Exercise of options 25,000 0.140 3,500
7 March 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
7 April 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
1 June 2006 Prophit Share Limited consideration 1,926,164 0.312 600,000
17 July 2006 Exercise of options 308,333 0.140 43,167
17 August 2006 Exercise of options 66,666 0.136 9,067
31 August 2006 Exercise of options 33,334 0.136 4,533 84
8. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued
The following share issues took place during the previous ﬁnancial year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
1 October 2004 InterX deferred consideration 3,700,277 0.270 1,000,000
22 August 2005 Exercise of options 1,819 0.020 36
22 August 2005 Exercise of options 446,666 0.136 60,747
23 August 2005 Exercise of options 500,000 0.136 68,000
19 September 2005 Exercise of options 133,332 0.136 18,133
9. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
The number of shares subject to options (including those granted to executive directors), the date on which they were granted and the periods
in which they may be exercised are given below:
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2006 2005
No. No.
24 May 2000 £2.29 a Between 2 and 10 years 795,000 795,000
31 May 2000 £2.29 a Between 2 and 10 years 130,000 130,000
26 June 2000 £3.24 a Between 2 and 10 years 20,000 20,000
10 August 2000 £4.64 a Between 2 and 10 years 398,500 512,350
1,343,500 1,457,350
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2006 2005
No. No.
15 June 2001 £0.02 a Between 2 and 10 years 7,566 13,001
16 July 2001 £2.97 a Between 2 and 10 years 500,000 500,000
19 October 2001 £2.46 a Between 2 and 10 years 2,376,888 2,510,888
1 May 2003 £0.073 a Between 2 and 10 years 450,000 450,000
18 August 2003 £0.136 a Between 2 and 10 years 8,034,566 8,333,167
18 August 2003 £0.136 a Between 3 and 10 years 4,073,767 4,225,166
3 October 2003 £0.14 a Between 2 and 10 years 666,667 1,000,000
3 October 2003 £0.14 a Between 3 and 10 years 500,000 500,000
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,184,109 1,323,597
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 3 and 10 years 592,055 661,798
16 March 2004 £0.357 a Between 4 and 10 years 592,055 661,800
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 2 and 10 years 1,216,666 1,216,666
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 3 and 10 years 1,216,667 1,216,667
7 September 2004 £0.277 b Between 4 and 10 years 1,216,667 1,216,667
22 December 2004 £0.360 a Between 12 and 18 months 150,000 150,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 3 and 10 years — 250,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 4 and 10 years — 250,000
22 December 2004 £0.360 b Between 5 and 10 years — 250,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 3 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 4 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
31 March 2005 £0.458 b Between 5 and 10 years 150,000 150,000
23,227,673 25,179,417
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 85
9. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Performance Share Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2006 2005
No. No.
19 August 2005 £0.00 c 19 August 2008 4,610,000 4,610,000
Performance conditions
a These options had no performance conditions attached.
b The awards will vest and become exercisable between the dates given above if Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth, adjusted for goodwill
amortisation and any adjustments required in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may arise (including for example the impact of
IFRS on the Group’s future results) as made at the discretion of the remuneration committee, exceeds the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) plus 3%
per annum. The base EPS being that for the year ended 30 September 2004. Future options issued will vest based on EPS growth plus 10%.
c The awards will vest subject to meeting the following two performance conditions. Vesting of up to 50 per cent. of the award is based upon
the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of a comparator group of other companies comprising the software and
computer services and the support services sector of the FTSE, over a three year performance period ending 30 September 2007. If the
Group’s TSR growth ranks below the 50th percentile over the three year period 0 per cent. of the award will vest. At the 50th percentile 15
per cent. will vest and at 75 per cent. or above, 50 per cent. will vest. Between the 50th and 75th percentile vesting will occur on a straight
line basis. Vesting of the remaining 50 per cent. of the award will be subject to the growth of the Group’s EPS. 15 per cent. of an award will
vest for total EPS growth of 12 percent above RPI over the performance period, with 50 per cent. of an award vesting for total EPS growth
of 45 per cent. or more above RPI over the performance period. Between these points, vesting will occur on a straight line basis.
10. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY
Shares to Share premium Merger Proﬁt and
be issued account reserve loss account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Company
At 1 October 2004 1,000 481,997 — (440,698)
Proﬁt retained for the year — — — 8,731
Shares issued (1,000) 1,051 — —
Costs of issue — 60 — —
Capital reduction — (483,033) — 483,033
At 1 October 2005 as reported — 75 — 51,066
Effect of implementation of FRS 26 — — — 56
At 1 October 2005 as restated — 75 — 51,122
Proﬁt retained for the year — — — 15,769
Shares issued — 2,631 561 —
At 30 September 2006 — 2,706 561 66,891
Following an extraordinary general meeting on 29 June 2005, The Innovation Group plc petitioned The High Court of Justice to cancel its
share premium account. Permission was granted on 23 August 2005 and as a result £483,033,000 was cancelled and transferred to retained
earnings. The reserves created cannot be distributed until all creditors existing at 23 August 2005 have been settled. 86
11. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 not to disclose such transactions as it is prepares
consolidated ﬁnancial statements which are publicly available.
Transactions with the Directors of the company are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in the notes to the Group ﬁnancial
statements.
12. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
At 30 September 2006 there was no capital expenditure (2005: £nil) contracted for and not provided in the Company ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has guaranteed a line of credit to the buyer of the trade and assets of The Innovation Group/MTW Inc. to the extent of £226,000 ($400,000)
in both the current and previous ﬁnancial years. At the end of the current ﬁnancial year this had been drawn down in full (2005: £nil).
13. STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION
There are no employees of the Company (2005: nil).
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed on page 28 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fee for the audit of the Company was £8,000 (2005: £7,500).
14. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT
On 13 December 2006 the Company completed a rights issue. This rights issue was undertaken on the basis of 2 new ordinary shares for every
pre-existing 5 ordinary shares. The total number of shares issued as part of the rights issue was 180,660,771 at a price of 21 pence per share.
This increased the number of issued shares in the company from 451,501,928 to 632,102,699.
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 87
Note 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
Proﬁt and loss account
Revenue £’000 79,651 60,916 58,051 58,514 100,071
Adjusted EBITDA a £’000 12,018 4,734 9,783 6,533 15,094
Adjusted proﬁt b £’000 10,947 3,566 7,525 3,331 10,028
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation £’000 6,824 545 (7,349) (24,088) (391,114)
Dividends £’000 — — — — (1,255)
Earnings/(loss) per share c
— Basic p 1.28 0.07 (1.77) (6.86) (155.26)
— Adjusted p 1.77 0.40 1.33 0.71 2.20
Dividend per share p — — — — 0.60
Balance sheet
Non-current assets/Fixed assets £’000 53,907 36,689 35,268 49,793 81,462
Other assets less liabilities £’000 (14,913) (13,603) (8,447) (17,091) (22,808)
Net funds/(debt) £’000 8,002 13,923 9,408 3,821 (1,255)
Total equity/Net assets £’000 46,996 39,009 36,229 36,523 57,399
Operating cash ﬂow £’000 9,978 7,237 6,611 (5,230) (8,086)
Key ratios
EBITDA margin d % 15.1 7.7 16.9 11.2 15.1
Adjusted proﬁt margin e % 13.7 5.9 13.0 5.7 10.0
Employees (average) No. 1,360 1,103 983 1,004 1,158
Notes
a. Adjusted EBITDA is operating proﬁt/(loss) before amortisation, depreciation, share based payments and utilisation of pre-acquisition brought
forward tax losses
b. Adjusted proﬁt is proﬁt/(loss) before tax, after adding back amortisation, share based payments, proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of operations and
utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses .
c. Earnings/(loss) per share has been adjusted in all years in respect of the shares issued by way of rights issue in December 2006. 2001 and
2002 have been adjusted further to reﬂect the shares issued by way of rights issue in March 2003.
d. EBITDA margin is adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
e. Adjusted proﬁt margin is adjusted proﬁt as a percentage of revenue.
FIVE YEAR REVIEW 88
DIRECTORS
G W Squire OBE
(Chairman)
H Sadiq
(Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)
P Smolinski
(Group Finance Director)
J C Banks
(Non-Executive)
D A Thorpe
(Non-Executive)
SECRETARY
J Hall
COMPANY NUMBER
3256771
REGISTERED OFFICE
Yarmouth House
1300 Parkway
Solent Business Park
Whiteley, 
Hampshire PO15 7AE
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young LLP
Apex Plaza
Reading RG1 1YE
BANKERS
The Royal Bank of Scotland
Corporate Banking
Solent Corporate Centre
Notebeme House
84 High Street
Southampton SO14 2NT
SOLICITORS
Dorsey & Whitney
21 Wilson Street 
London EC2M 2TD
REGISTRARS
Capita IRG plc
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersﬁeld
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA
OFFICERS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS UNITED KINGDOM
The Innovation Group plc
Head Office
Yarmouth House 
1300 Parkway
Solent Business Park
Whiteley
Hampshire
PO15 7AE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1489 898300
Fax: +44 (0) 1489 579181
info@uk.innovation-group.com
AUSTRALIA
The Innovation Group plc
Melbourne
1 Bowen Crescent 
Melbourne
Victoria 3004
Australia
Tel: +61 (0) 3 9864 1800
Fax: +61 (0) 3 9864 1801
info@au.innovation-group.com
The Innovation Group plc
Sydney
Level 2, 37 Bligh Street
Sydney
NSW 2000
Australia 
Tel: +61 (0) 2 8257 3391
Fax: +61 (0) 2 8257 3399
info@au.innovation-group.com
CANADA
Innovation Group 
‘a division of The Innovation
Group (Canada) Ltd’
Toronto
175 Commerce Valley
Drive West
Suite 108
Markham, Ontario
L3T 7P6
Canada
Tel: +1 (905) 771 5110
Fax: +1 (905) 771 0232
info@ca.innovation-group.com
GERMANY
Innovation Group 
Holdings GmbH
Max-Eyth-Strasse 42 
71088 Holzgerlingen
Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 7031-8170 0
Fax: +49 (0) 7031-8170-3200
info@de.innovation-group.com
JAPAN
The Innovation Group plc
Tokyo
Izumi Shiba Koen Bldg. 6F 
1-6-8 Shiba Koen
Minato-ku
Tokyo
Japan
Tel: +81 3 6402 1680
Fax: +81 3 6402 1681
Info@jp.innovation-group.com
SOUTH AFRICA
Innovation Group (Pty) Ltd
Fourways Office Park 
CNR Roos & Fourways Blvd
Private Bag X99
Bryanston 2021
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0) 11 790 5200
Fax: +27 (0) 11 790 5299
info@za.innovation-group.com
USA
The Innovation Group d.b.a
Innovation Group
Danbury
7 Kenosia Avenue 
1st Floor
Danbury
CT
USA
06810
Tel: +1 (203) 743 6000
Fax: +1 (203) 743 6003
info@us.innovation-group.com
The Innovation Group d.b.a
Innovation Group
Kansas City
7500 College Blvd. 
Suite 925
Overland Park
KS
USA
66210
Tel: +1 (913) 562 3100
Fax: +1 (913) 562 3103
info@us.innovation-group.com
The Innovation Group d.b.a
Innovation Group
Hartford
One Constitution Plaza, 
Ninth Floor
Hartford
CT
USA
06103
Tel: +1 (860) 218 9250
Fax: +1 (860) 727 0244
info@us.innovation-group.com
GLOBAL OPERATIONS The Innovation Group plc • 1300 Parkway • Solent Business Park • Whiteley • Hampshire • England • PO15 7AE
Tel: +44 (0)1489 898300 • Fax: +44 (0)1489 579181 • Web: www.innovation-group.com • E-mail: info@uk.innovation-group.com
www.innovation-group.com
