 ANNUAL REPORT AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2008
www.innovation-group.com
UNITED KINGDOM
•
AUSTRALIA
•
BELGIUM
•
CANADA
•
FRANCE
•
GERMANY
•
JAPAN
•
NETHERLANDS
•
PAKISTAN
•
SOUTH AFRICA
•
SPAIN
•
UNITED STATES
TIG Cover 2008  27/1/09  14:43  Page 2 Innovation Auto’s nationwide network fits our 
key policyholder regions very well, and the
adjuster portal integrates cleanly into our 
workflow. We appreciate the fact that Innovation
was able to quickly develop a customised 
program specifically tailored to Mendota’s 
non-standard auto insurance needs.  
Brian Ebent – Managing Director of Claims
Mendota Insurance USA
“
”
Innovation Claims provides a deep and broad 
set of functionality. The Innovation Claims system
has a thoughtfully designed UI (user interface)
with a host of helpful usability features. The re-
architecture of the Innovation Insurer technology
provides a functionally-rich end-to-end range of
processing and analytic capabilities.  
Donald Light – Senior Analyst
Celent
Core Claims Systems Vendors Report 2008
“
”
OUR NETWORKS,
YOUR STRATEGY
INNOVATION INSURER: ENABLING
FUTURE BUSINESS MODELS 
TIG Cover 2008  27/1/09  17:21  Page 3 Innovation Group is a specialist provider to the
global insurance industry, our BPO and software
services underpin more than 1,000 global clients.
We operate in the world’s largest insurance
markets, including, Australia, Belgium, Canada,
France, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Pakistan,
South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom and the
United States.
The clients we service include Allstate, Aviva, Avis
Budget, AXA Insurance, the Ford Motor Company,
Hertz, LeasePlan, RSA, Toyota and Zurich.
Serviced by over 2400 insurance specialists, we
work with clients to generate new products and
support their sales, employing our call centres to
convert prospects into policyholders, and our
software to quote and manage these policies. 
In the event of an incident – our call centres,
claims professionals and software manage every
step of the claims process to realise greater
efﬁciency, improved customer satisfaction and
higher proﬁts.
Innovation Group’s major on-going 5 year
partnership with IBM has enabled us to develop a
‘centre of excellence’ to constantly improve the
delivery of our solutions.
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:46  Page 1 Highlights 3
Chairman’s Statement 5
Chief Executive’s Statement 6
Finance Director’s Review 11
Financial Highlights 13
Board of Directors 15
Executive Management Team 16
Directors’ Report 17
Corporate Governance 20
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 25
Directors’ Remuneration Report 26
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of  
The Innovation Group plc 31
Consolidated Income Statement 32
Consolidated Balance Sheet 33
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 34
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36
Notes to the Financial Statements 37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in relation to the Company Financial Statements 91
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of 
The Innovation Group plc in relation to the 
Company Financial Statements 92
Company Balance Sheet 93
Company Notes to the Financial Statements 94
Five Year Review 103
Ofﬁcers and Professional Advisers 104
CONTENTS
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:47  Page 2 3
HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2008 2007
Revenues £139.9m £110.5m
Adjusted proﬁt before tax * £10.1m £16.1m
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (£3.8m) £10.4m
Adjusted earnings per share 0.52p 1.93p
(Loss)/earnings per share (1.06p) 1.17p
Dividend per share (full year) 0.2p 0.3p
Net Cash £10.7m £16.9m
*Adjusted proﬁt before tax is (loss)/proﬁt before tax after adding back the amortisation charge of £3.4m,
exceptional costs of £6.3m, impairment charge of £1.2m, a share based payments charge of £2.5m and utilisation
of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses of £0.5m as analysed on the face of the income statement.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2008 2007
Organic revenue growth 15.2% 10.5%
Outsourcing revenues 77% 68%
Recurring revenues 84% 77%
Operating cash ﬂow £12.1m £15.2m
CORPORATE HIGHLIGHTS
• Growth in Europe
• Group debt reﬁnanced with Barclays Bank plc
• IBM technology partnership wins UK insurer contract
• Project Enterprise BPO technology platform on plan 
Hassan Sadiq, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, commented,
In a year of unprecedented turbulence, our proﬁts were impacted by strategic
investments, economic issues and customer contract delays. However, we
have experienced strong growth in organic revenue, clients and contract wins
which positions us well to deal with the global economy and gives us good
momentum for 2009 and beyond.
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:47  Page 3 Having gone live in 2005, Innovation Group has
helped to drive our business process
outsourcing forward in an exceptional manner .
David Clinch – General Manager Trade Services, Australia 
Custom Service Leasing Limited
“
”
4
LONG-TERM 
STRATEGIC ALLIANCES
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:47  Page 4 5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Innovation Group is a technology-led Business Process Outsourcer
(“BPO”) that provides software and outsourcing services to the
insurance industry . Our vision is to provide technology and best practice
for the administration of policies and claims for the world’s insurers and
risk carriers. The Group is totally focussed on this market and delivers
its two broad offerings through a single client-centric organisation. 
We are a multinational player operating in the world’s largest insurance
markets with a strong proportion of our clients being international in
nature. Our 2,400 people across the world have extensive insurance
experience and they are ably supported by our partners.
The year in review
During 2008 we made strong progress in expanding our brand across
global markets. We grew our revenue by 27%, expanded into three
new European geographies, gained over 70 contracts with new and
existing clients and launched new auto and property services in the US.
However, the year also witnessed unprecedented turbulence with
resultant operational challenges. Whilst we saw strong organic revenue
growth and the successful integration of Nobilas Claims and Fleet
Solutions Limited (“Nobilas”) and National Service Network Holdings
Limited (“NSN”), performance was impacted by contract delays, slower
than expected volume ramp in the North American BPO business and
other issues caused by both internal and external factors. 
In December 2007 we completed the acquisition of Nobilas, the
accident management business of Akzo Nobel, which has expanded
our European footprint into France, Benelux and Spain and has also
taken us into the ﬂeet management and leasing markets. We have
now fully integrated this acquisition with our existing motor operations
to give us a truly pan-European offering. 
In June 2008 we acquired NSN, the company which manages the
largest centrally controlled network of independent maintenance and
repair garages in the UK. This acquisition expands our offering to
include regular repair, servicing and maintenance of our client’s
vehicles in addition to accident management. 
Project Enterprise is the implementation of our own services orientated
architecture (“SOA ”) based Innovation Insurer technology as a common
platform to support our global BPO business. This multi-year global
project is continuing to meet all our expectations in terms of quality,
timescales and budgets. Project Enterprise will give us the most
technically advanced capability in our sector and will provide signiﬁcant
ﬂexibility and operational efﬁciencies for our clients.
Financial Results
Total revenues for 2008 are £139.9m (2007: £110.5m) an increase of
27%. Recurring revenues represent 84% (2007: 77%). Organic growth
was 15.2% (2007: 10.5% restated). Adjusted proﬁt is £10.1m (2007:
£16.1m), and the loss before tax was £3.8m (2007: proﬁt £10.4m). 
We are disappointed with these reductions which reﬂect increased
investment in both BPO and technology capacity, investment into new
BPO products in the US, a customer contract settlement, delayed
contracts and acquisition integration costs.  
Towards the end of the year, we undertook a restructuring of the
business to reﬂect the current conditions and improve operational
efﬁciency, the beneﬁts of which will be felt in 2009.
*Adjusted proﬁt before tax is (loss)/proﬁt before tax after adding back
the amortisation charge of £3.4m, impairment charge of £1.2m, a
share based payments charge of £2.5m, exceptional charges of £6.3m
and the utilisation of pre-acquisition tax losses of £0.5m as analysed
on the face of the income statement.
Organisation and employees
I would like to pay tribute to the outstanding teamwork and
commitment to clients displayed by our employees during a year which
presented a very challenging economic environment. I would also like
to compliment our partners’ employees who are working with us on
client engagements. Innovation continues to attract and retain some
of the best people in the industry and we recognise them as the
foundation of our success. 
Corporate Governance and the Board 
The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code throughout the year . 
On 10 October 2008 Paul Hemsley resigned as Group Finance Director
and Jane Hall was appointed Acting Group Finance Director with
immediate effect.
Dividend policy
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 0.05 pence per share.
When combined with the interim dividend of 0.15 pence per share this
equates to full year dividends of 0.20 pence per share (2007: 0.30
pence per share). This ﬁnal dividend will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting on 16 March 2009 and if approved, paid on 31 March
2009. The record date will be 27 February 2009.
Outlook
The Board is pleased with the increase in demand for its products and
services, although it has been a challenging year to turn this revenue
into proﬁt and cash generation. In addition, we have made strategic
investments during the year on distribution (Nobilas), services (NSN)
and their integration and also technology infrastructure.
The outlook for the global economy is uncertain, which in common with
other businesses is creating difﬁculty in forecasting. Nevertheless our
clients are being driven more sharply to seek cost savings and
efﬁciency gains, and we are well placed to beneﬁt from these trends
in 2009 and beyond.
Geoff Squire, OBE
Chairman
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:47  Page 5 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Overview
2008 has been a mixed year for Innovation and we were disappointed
with the reduction in adjusted proﬁt. Adjusted proﬁt is £10.1m (2007:
£16.1m), and the loss before tax was £3.8m (2007: proﬁt £10.4m).
These reductions reﬂect increased investment in BPO new products,
technology capacity, a customer contract settlement and acquisition
integration costs.
Innovation Group provides technology enabled outsourcing to the
global insurance industry and our offerings are attracting record
demand. We have seen significant organic growth and product
innovation and we have also successfully completed the integration
of our businesses to become a uniﬁed global player in the insurance
and risk carrier market. 
Revenues for the year have risen 27% and organic growth is 15.2%,
up from 10.5% in 2007. We have expanded our customer base, which
is now in excess of 1,000 customers, managing over four million
transactions worldwide, whilst our recurring revenues have continued
to increase year-on-year . 
We have successfully integrated two substantial acquisitions, Nobilas
and NSN, and through the restructuring of our business this year, we
have expanded our capacity and service portfolio to meet the record
demand for our services across all geographies. 
The US BPO business was impacted by a number of major contracts
either being delayed or signed later than expected. Whilst this led to
a reduction in profits for 2008, the rising volumes from these
contracts are helping to underpin our 2009 expectations, with
revenues already beginning to ﬂow through.
Company Strategy
As a leading specialist technology-led BPO provider, we continue to
innovate and create new products for use by our clients. We licence
these products both directly to clients and through partners such as
IBM. In addition, we have set up a multi-year programme called Project
Enterprise for use within our own outsourcing business. 
Our focus is on developing new solutions where appropriate and
providing a responsive and sustainable service which exceeds customer
expectations, and helps them to meet their needs for efficiency,
productivity and proﬁtability.
Operating as a single client-centric organisation our key objective and
goal is to service more clients with more incidents globally. We now
have unrivalled global capabilities, expanded and enhanced this year
through our acquisitions of Nobilas and NSN.
Market Drivers and Business Model
Despite the economic downturn, industry analysts expect the BPO
market to continue to grow across all geographic areas. According to 
a Gartner report (July 2008) in the ﬁnancial services industry this is 
forecast to be 10.5% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) which
we expect to exceed. 
With increasing competition and decreasing investment returns,
insurance companies are looking to reduce overheads and are
striving to improve risk management in the wake of recent ﬁnancial
pressures. Commercial challenges faced by insurers include the
need to strengthen customer relationships and develop tailored and
targeted products and services in the face of more exacting customer
demands and increased competition. Pressure from regulators and
rating agencies alike sees more focus on technology-enabled BPO
to provide consistency, automation and improved quality. 
Our combination of technology efﬁcient BPO capability and specialist
insurance knowledge offers clients ﬂexibility, together with innovative
new products, reduced cost, improved service and opportunities to
enter new markets on a multinational basis. 
Operational Review
Our excellent momentum from 2007 has led to good overall revenue
growth in 2008. As pioneers of the combined BPO and software
business model, our overall positioning is resulting in signiﬁcant
global demand and sustainable growth. This year it has brought us
multi-million pound contract wins with blue-chip organisations across
all areas of our business. In Europe we achieved revenue growth of
62% to £70.4m (2007: £43.4m). In North America, revenue growth
Our focus is on developing new
solutions where appropriate
and providing a responsive and
sustainable service which
exceeds customer expectations,
and helps them to meet their
needs for efﬁciency,
productivity and proﬁtability.
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 6 In a recent customer survey, those 
who had enjoyed the motor repair 
service were twice as likely to remain 
a long-term customer of AXA, than 
those that organised their own repair .
Markus Troche – Head of Claims, Germany 
AXA Service AG
“
”
Innovation Group continues to help
us save time and money, but not at
the expense of our customers. 
As well as providing an excellent
service, Innovation Group supports
our brand. 
Markus Troche – Head of Claims, Germany 
AXA Service AG 
“
”
7
EXTENSION OF
YOUR BUSINESS 
FOCUSED ON 
YOUR CUSTOMERS
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  16:56  Page 7 8
was up 4% to £26.5m (2007: £25.6m) despite contract delays and,
building on the FNS acquisition, the Group has become established
in the BPO market and is achieving signiﬁcant customer wins. Good
performances have also come from Asia Paciﬁc, where our Australian
business performed to expectations with revenue growth of 21% to
£8.8m (2007: £7.3m). As a consequence of regional economic
conditions, which affected consumer driven lines of business, our
South African operations were ﬂat at £34.2m (2007: £34.2m).
Key customer contracts
This year we have won some signiﬁcant contracts and in the UK these
include one in conjunction with IBM for a leading insurer, worth £4.7m
over 2008 and 2009 and a ﬁve-year contract renewal with CIS General
Insurance Limited (CISGIL) estimated to be worth £7m. Our UK
subsidence division was recently awarded Best in Class in the service
provider category at the RSA Supply Chain Collaboration Supplier
Conference in the UK, while our UK motor services division has won
two accident management awards for customer service.
New business developments in the US include a ﬁve-year contract with
Avis Budget Group, a leading provider of vehicle rental services with
operations in more than 70 countries, and an agreement worth $3m
with Western Computer Services (WCSI) to deliver our technology
solutions to Farm Bureaus in the United States. We have also signed
an extended relationship with American Modern Insurance Group
(AMIG).
Partnerships
Innovation Group has been selected as a component services provider
for IBM’s Insurance ISV ecosystem and insurance industry solutions.
The intent is to offer a repeatable solution that is content rich,
delivering high value to customers, while reducing delivery risk and
lowering costs. A collaboration between Innovation Group and IBM to
develop our core capabilities has led to the establishment of our
Innovation Centre in India. We now have access to leading expertise
and the massive worldwide IBM presence which should help us to
expand our global reach. 
Innovation has partnered with Symbility to create a mobile estimating
capability for processing property claims.
One Company
We have completed the transition to a ‘one company’ culture evidenced
by satisfied customers and staff. Project Enterprise, common
forecasting business systems and the flattening of the Group
organisation structure have all been launched in 2008. Going forward,
our focus in 2009 will be predominantly short to medium term,
delivering growth from existing and recently secured contracts,
without making any material acquisitions or incurring further
exceptional restructuring charges. 
Investments
In 2008, we have made strategic cash investments, which we are
conﬁdent will accelerate our growth and proﬁtability into 2009 and
beyond. 
New Products
We have launched two new services in the US, Auto Claims
Management and Property Claims Management, the latter of which
expands our capability with a solution which provides mitigation and
contractor services to the insurance industry, including a fully
integrated, managed network of providers, along with end-to-end
property solutions. 
Additionally during the year we have invested £3.2m (2007: £3.1m)
globally in software research and development, all of which has been
expensed. 
Project Enterprise
The implementation of our own common technology platform to
support our global BPO business using our new Innovation Insurer
software platform is continuing to meet all our expectations in terms
of quality, timescales and budgets. When implemented across the
Group, it will lead to signiﬁcant operational efﬁciencies and ﬂexibility.
This will beneﬁt both our customers, as well as our own operations
and will be the most technically advanced solution in our sector.
Innovation Insurer, a new release of our SOA based system is to be
launched to the market in the Spring of 2009.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT continued
“
We grew our revenue by 27%,
expanded into three new
European geographies, gained
over 70 contracts with new and
existing clients and launched
new auto and property services
in the US. 
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 8 9
Acquisitions and integration
We have completed the acquisition and full integration of Nobilas
over a nine-month period, which now provides us with new innovative
BPO capabilities in France, Spain and Benelux. In Germany and the
UK, Nobilas is now operating successfully within the Innovation Group
Motor Services Division.
In the UK, the acquisition and successful integration over a 120-day
period of NSN, the largest centrally controlled network of independent
maintenance and repair garages in the UK, has helped us provide a
compelling proposition to our customers. NSN has in excess of 25
customers including LeasePlan, the world’s largest vehicle
management and leasing provider. We were recently awarded a
platinum score for managing LeasePlan’s network of garages and a
gold score for their Service Booking Line.
In the US we integrated FNS, Sureplan and Nobilas US into one single
BPO business. With these complex steps completed, our US region
is now well established as a single integrated business, fully prepared
for the volume ramp up in 2009 from recently signed contracts.  
Risks and uncertainties
The Board monitors the risk factors faced by the business and takes
appropriate action to mitigate them where possible. As with any
company, risk may affect the Group, its results and the Board’s ability
to deliver strategy. 
Key risks and uncertainties include:
• On a global basis, the Group needs to remain competitive 
• The Group is dependant upon the maintenance of service level
agreements with insurance industry clients
• The Group relies on its relationships with its supplier networks
• The Group’s software solutions must remain technologically
competitive and the associated intellectual property must be
properly protected
• The Group is exposed to certain external risks including exchange
translation risks.
In addition to the above, in common with all companies, the Group is
exposed to uncertainty in the global economy as evidenced by the
recent market turmoil.
Summary 
2008 has been a challenging year for our business as our ambitious
operating model coincided with unprecedented macro economic
turbulence.  
We are disappointed with the reduction in adjusted proﬁt levels, but
are encouraged by the revenue growth which was driven by demand
for our products and services from both new and existing clients.  
We have been integrating strategic acquisitions, adapting the
corporate structure to create a uniﬁed company and investing in new
products, all against the backdrop of this economic turmoil. 
We have re-ﬁnanced our debt, turned around a ﬁrst half operating
cash outﬂow to a full year operating cash inﬂow and signiﬁcantly
cut back on acquisitions. We also carried out a restructuring exercise
at the end of the year to lower the cost run rate.
Our combined software and BPO offering is building strong
momentum both in Europe and the US and we see volumes building
rapidly as we move into 2009. Whilst the outlook for the global
economy remains uncertain, it is clear to us that our insurance
industry customers remain very sharply focused on saving costs and
improving efﬁciencies.
Our opportunity pipeline and recurring revenues remain strong. This
gives the Board confidence in the significant long term growth
prospects for our business.
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
We have seen signiﬁcant organic
growth and product innovation
and we have also successfully
completed the integration of our
businesses to become a uniﬁed
global player in the insurance
and risk carrier market. 
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 9 10
Innovation Group has become one of 
RSA’s key outsourcing suppliers in 
the UK, acting as an extension to our 
business. This unique partnership 
has enabled RSA to improve our 
claims process and increase service 
levels to our customers.
Steven Maddock – Technical Claims Director
RSA Insurance Group
“
”
WORKING FOR
RESULTS, TOGETHER
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 10 11
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Financial Overview
Total revenues for the year are £139.9m (2007: £110.5m) an increase
of 27%. Revenue from recurring transaction streams represent 84%
(2007: 77%). Organic growth was 15.2% (2007: 10.5% restated).
Adjusted proﬁt is £10.1m (2007: £16.1m), down 37%. The loss before
tax was £3.8m (2007: proﬁt £10.4m) and adjusted earnings per share
is 0.52 pence (2007: 1.93 pence) with basic loss per share 1.06 pence
(2007 earnings: 1.17 pence). 
The Group’s gross margin was 42% (2007: 47%) whilst adjusted
margin was 7% (2007: 15%). The reduction in proﬁtability reﬂects
increased investment into BPO capacity, new products in the US, a
customer contract settlement, acquisition integration costs, and
trading losses in Poland. As in prior years the 2008 result was
weighted towards the second half of the year which generated
adjusted proﬁt of £6.1m (2007: £10.0m). 
Adjusted profit is (loss)/profit before tax after adding back
amortisation on acquired intangible assets of £3.4m (2007: £2.9m),
impairment of £1.2m (2007: £1.2m), share based payments charge
of £2.5m (2007: £1.4m), utilisation of pre–acquisition brought forward
tax losses of £0.5m (2007: £0.2m) and exceptional costs of £6.3m
(2007: Nil). Included within exceptional costs are £2.6m in respect of
the Nobilas acquisition, staff restructuring costs of £1.2m and £2.5m
arising from the restructuring of offshore facilities in South Africa and
the closure of the Polish operation. 
Organic revenue growth for 2008 at 15.2% was ahead of the 2007
ﬁgure of 10.5% using consistent deﬁnitions. In calculating organic
revenue growth, revenues from acquisitions in the current year are
excluded. In the comparator year, revenues from the prior year
acquisitions are adjusted to reﬂect a full year of revenue.
In line with our strategic shift to a recurring revenue model, there has
been a 37% increase in our recurring revenues to £116.8m (2007:
£85.0m). Recurring revenues being outsourcing revenues plus
recurring licences and maintenance now represent 84% (2007: 77%)
of total revenues.  
Key Indicators
Segment Information
In the Outsourcing segment, revenues were £107.4m (2007: £75.4m),
an increase of 42%, reﬂecting the impact of both organic growth and
acquisitions. Nobilas and NSN contributed £7.9m and £0.8m to
revenues respectively. Adjusted segment proﬁt was £4.4m (2007:
£11.4m) and represents 44% (2007: 71%) of Group adjusted proﬁt.  
Software revenues were £32.5m (2007: £35.1m) which is a reduction
of 7%. Our software segment now represents 23% of Group revenue
(2007: 32%). One-time licence fees increased by £2.9m to £6.6m
largely as a result of the UK technology win with IBM. Adjusted
segment proﬁt was £5.7m (2007: £4.7m) and represents 56% (2007:
29%) of Group adjusted proﬁt.
Foreign Currencies
The Group undertakes operations on a global basis and the results
for the year are subject to movements in exchange rates. The Group
has a policy of not hedging translation movements that arise either
positive or negative, although all material transactions are hedged
at the point they become more than likely to occur. In contrast to
2007, the impact of foreign currency movements on revenue and
proﬁt in the year was not material.
2008 2007
Organic revenue growth 15.2% 10.5%
Outsourcing revenues 77% 68%
Recurring revenues 84% 77%
Software revenues 16% 23%
Gross margin 42% 47%
In line with our strategic shift
to a recurring revenue model,
there has been a 37% increase
in our recurring revenues to
£116.8m (2007: £85.0m).  
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 11 FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued
12
Taxation 
The Group tax charge is £1.3m (2007: £2.3m). The Group’s effective
tax rate, being the tax charge prior to deferred tax on IFRS acquired
intangibles of £0.8m (2007: £0.9m), expressed as a percentage of
adjusted proﬁt remains at 20% (2007: 20%). The Group continues to
carry forward signiﬁcant tax losses in certain UK and US entities.
The forecast effective tax rate for 2009 is expected to be in the range
of 22%-27%.
Investment activity
In December 2007 the Group acquired certain business and assets
of Nobilas Claims and Fleet solutions from Akzo Nobel for €0.85m
(£0.6m) cash excluding working capital adjustments. Our 2008 results
reﬂect nine months of activity from Nobilas which incurred a statutory
loss of £3.2m. 
In June 2008 the Group acquired a 100% equity interest in NSN
Holdings Ltd the largest UK centrally controlled network of
independent maintenance and repair garages from management,
Aftermarket UK Limited and South East Growth Fund Managers, 
for an initial consideration of £1.1m excluding acquisition costs. 
In addition, there is contingent deferred consideration payable, details
of which are given in note 17b. 
In May 2008 the Group acquired for cash, Choice Certified
Contractors, a US provider of property contracting services from
management for $0.7m (£0.4m). The goodwill arising on this
acquisition has been impaired although the underlying business
model has been retained.  
Cash ﬂow and capital management
The Group had a strong net cash position at year end which reﬂects
a combination of tighter working capital management throughout
the second half and delayed supplier payments in September . During
the year we successfully reﬁnanced long term debt and secured a
new revolving credit facility. The net cash balance at the year end was
£10.7m (2007: £16.9m). The operating cash inﬂow of £12.1m (2007:
£15.2m) reflects operating losses of £4.2m (2007: profit £8.6m)
adjusted for non-cash items, taxation and a working capital increase.
Investment expenditure, net of interest received of £2.0m (2007:
£1.8m), was £8.2m (2007: £42.7m). This includes net fixed asset
additions of £7.5m (2007: £2.8m) and acquisition related expenditure
of £2.7m (2007: £41.6m). Included within ﬁxed asset expenditure is
£4.3m (2007: £0.5m) relating to Project Enterprise.
Financing cash outﬂow of £9.2m (2007 inﬂow: £45.3m) includes net
repayment of borrowings of £4.0m (2007: £9.9m new debt) and parent
company dividend payments of £2.9m (2007: £nil).
Overall cash and cash equivalents decreased by £5.1m (2007 increase:
£20.8m) and after reﬂecting opening cash of £39.8m (2007: £19.0m),
adjusted for the effect of exchange rates, resulted in closing cash of
£34.7m. Included in closing cash is £6.0m (2007: £7.9m) of balances
held in Innovation bank accounts for which there is a corresponding
balance sheet liability for the settlement of future claims.
In 2008, operating cash conversion was 120% (2007: 95%) of adjusted
proﬁt. This includes timing differences on working capital and taxation
payments. Accordingly in 2009, the Group anticipates an operating
cash outﬂow for the ﬁrst half, and a modest cash inﬂow for the full year .  
Project Enterprise
In 2007 we commenced Project Enterprise to implement Innovation
Insurer technology within our own global outsourcing businesses.
These costs have continued to be capitalised and will be amortised
over the useful life when available for use. Included in intangible
ﬁxed assets is an amount of £4.8m (2007: £0.5m). 
Jane Hall
Acting Group Finance Director
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 12 13
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Turnover 139,859 110,466
Adjusted proﬁt before tax* 10,065 16,052
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (3,783) 10,401
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 0.52 1.93
Basic earnings per share (pence) (1.06) 1.17
Note: * Adjusted proﬁt before tax is calculated as:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (3,783) 10,401
Add back
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3,403 2,877
Exceptional costs 6,246 —
Impairment of investments 1,228 1,119
Share based payments 2,520 1,464
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 451 191
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 10,065 16,052
References to adjusted proﬁt and adjusted earnings per share reﬂect the Directors’ view that this is an important measure for their own,
and shareholders’, assessment of the Group’s underlying performance.
GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD OF REVENUE
Europe
50%
North 
America
19%
South
Africa
25%
Asia
Paciﬁc
6%
£70.4m
(2007: £43.4m)
£26.4m
(2007: £25.6m)
£34.2m
(2007: £34.2m)
£8.8m
(2007: £7.3m)
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:50  Page 13 14
Since 2005, our relationship with Innovation Group has
evolved from consulting to implementation. We have 
found them to be professional at all times, solution- 
driven and having a willingness to make things work 
and meet requirements. This work ethic has been 
instrumental in the success of our partnership.  
Pearl Mancoba – VAP Specialist, PSI & Call Centres
ABSA Vehicle & Asset Finance Insurance Division, 
South Africa
“
”
EVOLVING WITH INNOVATION
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  17:20  Page 14 15
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company and their responsibilities within the Group are
set out below:
Geoff Squire OBE (61), (Non-Executive Chairman)
Geoff Squire has been involved in the information technology industry for over
40 years. In June 2001, Geoff joined the Board of The Innovation Group as a
Non-Executive Director and in May 2002 he became Chairman of the Board. 
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Geoff is also Chairman of
Kognitio Limited and a Director of Informatica Corporation and several privately
held companies. Geoff held positions with ICL and CACI Consultancy Group
before joining Oracle Corporation where he ultimately became President of
worldwide operations. He joined OpenVision in 1994 as the President and Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of its newly formed international subsidiary. He became Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of the company in 1995 and took the company public on
NASDAQ prior to its merger with VERITAS in 1997. Geoff executed the merger
with Seagate software and grew the combined entity to over a billion dollars.
He remained as Vice Chairman until the Symantec VERITAS merger in 2005.
Geoff previously served as a Director of the Cranﬁeld IT Institute from 1989 to
1991 and was president of the Computing Services & Software Association during
1994 and 1995. In September 1993, he was awarded an honorary Doctorate of
Science by Oxford Brookes University for his outstanding contribution to the
information technology profession. In recognition of his services to the
information technology industry, Geoff was awarded an OBE in 1997. 
Hassan Sadiq (40), (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)
Hassan Sadiq joined the Group as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer following the
acquisition of Cosy plc in October 2001 and was appointed Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer in March 2003. Hassan has held numerous senior management
positions in companies involved in software development and distribution. 
In 1994, together with several partners, Hassan created Chatsworth Systems,
where he assumed the role of Managing Director. In 1998, Hassan was
appointed CEO of New Planet Solutions, part of the Cosy Group, where he
played a key role in driving the ﬁrm’s business and technology vision, which
led the company into its ﬁrst vertical market as an e-Claims Insurance
specialist organisation.
Jane Hall (40), (Acting Group Finance Director) 
Jane Hall joined the Group following the acquisition of Cosy plc in October
2001. Jane was initially responsible for the UK ﬁnance function before moving
into the role of Group Financial Controller in 2004. In November 2005 Jane also
took over the responsibility of Company Secretary. Prior to joining the Group
Jane had several senior ﬁnance positions in smaller private companies. She is
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and qualiﬁed in 1993. Jane
has recently been promoted to the role of Acting Group Finance Director .
Chris Banks (58), (Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman)
Chris Banks joined the Group in June 2003. He is the Chairman of the Audit
Committee and the Senior Independent Director. Chris has over twenty-ﬁve
years experience in the management and ﬁnancial development of leading
technology companies and experience of providing leadership and support to
organisations through Non-Executive Directorships. Chris was the Finance
Director at CMG plc and a core member of the management team through the
company’s ﬂotation where he was responsible for a full range of ﬁnance
functions. Prior to joining CMG, Chris was the Finance Director of The BIS Group.
Chris became a Non-Executive Director of Detica Group plc as Senior Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of its Audit Committee from 2000 to
September 2008. He is also a Non-Executive Director of Consort Medical plc and
chairs its Audit Committee. In April 2007 Chris was appointed as Senior Non-
Executive Director of Medical Marketing International Group plc and currently
chairs its Audit and Remuneration Committees. He is also a trustee of The
Barbara Ward Children’s Foundation. He qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant
in 1973 and is a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
David Thorpe (59), 
(Non-Executive Director, Remuneration Committee Chairman)
David Thorpe joined the Group in July 2003. He is Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. David retired from EDS in 2003, where he had held
a series of senior positions culminating as the head of their European Business
with responsibility for operations in 20 countries and revenue of $4bn. Before
joining EDS, David was at Bull Information Systems, where he was a member
of the UK Board and Managing Director of Bull’s largest operating unit,
Systems Integration and Services. He is a member of The Chartered Institute of
Public Finance and Accountancy and has over 25 years experience in the IT
software, services and outsourcing market. David is currently Chairman of
Tunstall Holdings Ltd and Clinical Solutions Ltd and a Director of VT Group Plc.
In 2004, he was also appointed as Chairman of the Race-Course Association
and a member of the Horse Race Betting and Levy Board.
Kurt Lauk (61), (Non-Executive Director)
Dr . Kurt Lauk joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2007 and
sits on both the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Kurt has
considerable global experience in both the automotive and technology
industries. He is the Founder and President of Globe CP GmbH. Kurt was a
member of the Board of Management of Daimler-Chrysler AG, where he was
responsible for its global Commercial Vehicle Division. He was also Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer of Veba AG (today called E.ON AG). Kurt was a Non-Executive
Director of Corus Group, the steel manufacturer, until April 2007, where he sat
on the Audit and Nomination Committees. He is currently a Non-Executive
Director of Business Objects S.A, where he also sits on the Audit Committee.
Kurt also serves on the Board of two private companies Scheufelen
Papierfabrik GmbH and Gehring Machinenfabrik GmbH.
James Morley (59), (Non-Executive Director)
James Morley joined the Board as Non-Executive Director in March 2007 and
sits on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees. James has signiﬁcant
ﬁnancial and operational experience in the insurance industry, the Group’s
core market. Until recently James was Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Primary
Insurance Group. He has previously held the role of Group Finance Director at
Cox Insurance Holdings and Guardian Royal Exchange, as well as the paper
group Arjo Wiggins Appleton. James was also Deputy Chief Executive and
Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc, the car hire group. Since 1994,
James has been a Non-Executive Director of Bankers Investment Trust, where
he is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is also Senior Independent Director
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of WS Atkins plc, the design and
engineering consultancy.
Geoff Squire OBE Hassan Sadiq Jane Hall Chris Banks David Thorpe Kurt Lauk James Morley
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:50  Page 15 16
Peter Hamilton, (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Europe)
Peter has over 38 years experience working in the technology and insurance
sectors, including senior management positions in both Europe and North
America. Prior to joining Innovation Group, Peter was a board member of Softkey
Software Products. He also founded Lava Systems, before taking up the
Chairman’s position at NPS, a company focused on delivering outsourcing
software for the insurance industry.
Phil Gerrard, (Corporate Chief Operating Ofﬁcer)
Prior to joining Innovation Group, Phil was Chief Commercial Ofﬁcer of Vocalink,
the company that operate the UK’s BACS and cash machine networks, where he
led a merger integration and an organisational transformation programme.
Before that he worked for LINK as Commercial Director, leading on the
commercial programme to deliver the world’s ﬁrst real-time payment system
to the UK banking industry, which went live in May 2008. He also played a key
role in launching MONILINK, a joint venture that provides consumers with a
“bank in their pocket”. Phil’s early career was in Insolvency and Corporate
Finance with Coopers & Lybrand, where he trained as a Chartered Accountant.
Denis Walker, (Human Resources and Information Technology Director)
Prior to joining Innovation Group, Denis was an independent consultant and
before that, Chief Operations Ofﬁcer of Cox Insurance Holdings Plc (2002 to
2005). Prior to that, Denis was Group HR Director of AXA UK, UK HR Director GRE
and Director of Operations at PPP Healthcare. Denis spent over ﬁfteen years at
British Airways, including HR roles, leading the Customer First programme and
latterly as Deputy General Manager of Ground Operations. Denis has also run
his own successful consultancy business.
Shaun Gwilliam, (Software Solutions Director) 
Shaun began his career in software development in 1986 with Rank Xerox Group.
In 1987, he joined Sprint Computer Systems and later Areapower developing
software in automatic test equipment and road haulage and management
systems. In 1990, he joined Wayland systems where he was responsible for the
development of their pioneering telephone call management systems. In 1995,
he joined Traderights where he managed the development of their EDIfact, SEC
ﬁlings and early e-mail systems for distribution in both the UK and North
America. In 1996, Shaun formed Premier Business Associates, where his focus
was to develop their document management system for the ﬁnancial services
industry. This company was acquired by ICL in 1997 and Shaun was employed
as technical design authority on a number of high proﬁle government projects.
In 2000, Shaun joined New Planet Solutions (NPS) as Chief Technology Ofﬁcer
and was employed to develop the technical platform for motor claims solutions
in the insurance industry which was subsequently delivered to a tier 1 insurer .
NPS was acquired by the Group in November 2001, where this responsibility
continued until early 2006 when Shaun was given responsibility for the Group
product development of the policy and claims solutions.
Eric Wadsworth, (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Americas)
Eric is a qualiﬁed chartered accountant, whose early career was spent in the
auditing arena. He has extensive experience in the ﬁnancial services industry and
held the position of finance executive at Aegis Insurance, where he was
responsible for ﬁnancial and procurement divisions. In 1997, Eric was invited to
join CWA as managing director and gained extensive experience in the motor
market, most notably in the area of supply chain management in insurance
related processes. Later that year, he and other members of management
bought majority shares in this business and the eQuals Group materialised.
Through an afﬁliation with motorCare UK and its various global business units,
Eric gained international experience and the attention of Innovation Group,
which led to the eQuals acquisition in 2001.
Andy Labrot, (Chief Technology Ofﬁcer)
Andy Labrot joined the Group in July 2001 following the Group’s acquisition of
MTW in that year. Andy leads the Group’s R&D efforts globally and drives the
evolution of our products based on continuous customer feedback, industry
evolution and best practices. With more than 20 years in the IT industry, Andy’s
experience with service based architectures, and the development of distributed
systems, has guided the Group’s technical strategies and supported customer
implementation efforts. From 1981 to 1993 Andy led research development and
implementation efforts for Aetna, IBM and Hartford Steam Boiler, during which
he was among the ﬁrst technologists to build distributed systems with CICS
technology. He was Chief T echnologist for T exas Instruments Software Division’s
ﬁeld operations from 1993 to 1997 and most recently was Chief Technology
Ofﬁcer for MTW where he led the development of the company’s component
based policy system, and co-authored the patented PROgression® Method,
which continues to be leveraged worldwide.
Glen Mollink, (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, South Africa & Middle East)
Prior to joining Innovation Group, Glen worked at ABSA Group as a software
project manager, responsible for credit scoring and bond registration
systems. Before that, he worked for three years at Aegis Insurance as a
software project manager and business analyst, where he was responsible
for the company's claims systems. In 1999, Glen joined Innovation Group as
Business Project Manager, to investigate and build business cases around
new business opportunities for the group, and to create new business units
within the group to handle the new business. At this stage, Innovation Group
consisted of three business units. Glen was Managing Director of Warranty
care, the most successful business unit created under Glen's tenure. In 2003
Glen was promoted to Group Executive: Non-Motor, where four business
units worked under his guidance. In this position his role within Innovation
Group became more strategic and more marketing focussed and Glen was
responsible for creating new business units. In 2005 Glen was promoted to
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Innovation Group South Africa and to Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer in 2007.
Ed Ossie, (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Asia)
Ed Ossie has extensive US and international operational experience in IT
solutions. From 1996 Ed was President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of MTW,
until its acquisition by Innovation Group in July 2001. Prior to MTW he worked
for Texas Instruments for 19 years. In the Technology Software Division he was
Vice President and General Manager for the Americas. In this role Ed was
instrumental in leading the division’s revenue growth, staff expansion and
customer satisfaction.
Martin Jones, (Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Asia & Australia/Managing Director
Australia & Japan)
Martin is responsible for leading the Innovation Group’s business in the Asian
and Australasian markets. Martin has spent over 24 years working in the
provision of solutions to insurance and related industries. In that time he has
worked in ﬁnance, sales and marketing, management consulting and senior
management roles in the UK and in Australia. Having been responsible for the
Innovation Group’s Technology Solutions in Australia since mid-2001, he was
appointed COO of the region in 2006 and has responsibility for all areas of
Innovation’s solutions in Asia and Australasia.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
TIG R&A AW Front 08  10/2/09  16:17  Page 16 17
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their annual report and the audited ﬁnancial
statements for the year ended 30 September 2008.  
Activities
The principal activities of the Group during the year were outsourcing
and the provision of insurance software on an international basis.  
Review of the business and future developments
The results for the year are set out on page 32 and the ﬁnancial
position is set out on page 33. Further information on the review of
the business and the Directors’ expectation for the development of
the Group’s activities for the coming year are given in the Chairman’s
Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement and Finance Director’s
Review on pages 5 to 12 and which are hereby incorporated into,
and form part of this Directors’ Report.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 0.15 pence per share (2007: £nil) was paid
during the year and the Directors propose a ﬁnal dividend for the
year of 0.05 pence per share (2007: 0.3 pence per share) to give a full
year dividend of 0.20 pence per share. This dividend will be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting in March 2009 and if approved paid
shortly thereafter . 
Directors and their interests
A list of the present Directors of the Company is given on page 15. 
The interests in the Company of the Directors in ofﬁce at the year
end are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 26 to
30. All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be
independent. Chris Banks is currently the Senior Independent Director . 
Geoff Squire and Hassan Sadiq, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in March
2009. The Board believes that these Directors should be re-elected
as their individual participation and experience within the industry
and markets in which the Group operates adds considerably to the
Group’s overall ability to deliver its objectives.
Substantial shareholdings
At 28 November 2008 the Company had been notiﬁed of the following
shareholdings of 3% or more of the Company’s share capital.
Ordinary shares % of capital
M&G Investment Management 64,414,329 9.91
BlackRock MLIM 57,725,418 8.88
SG Asset Management 57,522,888 8.85
GAM London Ltd UK 51,578,318 7.93
Legal and General Investment Management 31,106,237 4.79
River & Mercantile Asset Management 29,933,755 4.61
Jupiter Asset Management 25,545,800 3.93
Hermes Pension Management 21,390,998 3.29
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 21,279,977 3.27
Research and development
The Group continues to be active in its research and development of
software and services and intends to remain so for the foreseeable
future. 
Environmental policies
The Group recognises that it has a corporate responsibility to carry
out its operations whilst minimising environmental impacts. The
Group aims to comply with all applicable environmental legislation,
to prevent pollution and to minimise environmental damage
occurring as a result of its activities. More details are included within
Corporate Governance on page 20.
Employee involvement
Information on the Group is provided through internal newsletters
and notices and by the circulation of press releases. 
Regular meetings are held with employees to discuss operations,
sales, product development and the financial progress of the
business. 
Where appropriate, employees are also encouraged to become
involved in the success of the Company through share option
schemes.
Training programmes for staff continue to focus on technical,
consulting and people skills to meet the needs of a high growth
business. An induction programme is in place for all new joiners. 
Disabled employees
The Group is committed to a policy of recruitment and promotion
on the basis of aptitude and ability without discrimination. The Group
gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled
persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulﬁlled
by a handicapped or disabled person. Where existing employees
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to
provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions
and to provide training and career development and promotion to
disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Contractual relationships
There are no individual contracts which are signiﬁcant or essential
to the business of the Group. 
Supplier payment policy
It is Company policy to agree and clearly communicate the terms of
payment as part of the commercial arrangement negotiated with
suppliers and then to pay according to those terms based upon the
satisfactory completion of contractual obligations and timely receipt
of an accurate invoice. Trade creditor days of the Group for the year
ended 30 September 2008 were 54 days (2007: 42 days), calculated 
in accordance with the requirements set down in the Companies 
Act 1985.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 17 18
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Treasury policy
Treasury activities are managed under policies and procedures
approved and monitored by the Board. These are designed to reduce
the ﬁnancial risks faced by the Group, which relate primarily to
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and currency risk. Details are given
in note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Events since the balance sheet date
No reportable events have happened since the balance sheet date.
Directors’ liabilities
The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability
in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the
conditions set out in s234 of the Companies Act 2006. Such qualifying
third party indemnity provision was in force throughout the period
and remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors’ Report.
Takeovers directive
Where not provided previously in this Directors’ Report, the following
provides the additional information required for shareholders as a
result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law. 
At 30 September 2008, the Company’s issued share capital comprised
a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. Details of
the share capital can be found in note 27. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every
holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one
vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and
entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the general meeting speciﬁes deadlines for exercising
voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy
in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. All proxy
votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation
to each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting
and published on the Company’s website after the meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the
Company other than: 
  certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws
and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and  
  pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority
whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval
of the Company to deal in the Company’s securities.
There have been no changes in share capital, no purchases by the
Company of its own shares and the Company holds no shares in
treasury.  
A resolution will be proposed as a special resolution at the 2009
Annual General Meeting which will give the Company authority to use
its available cash resources to acquire up to 5% of its own shares in
the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
The Directors will continue to use this authority only after careful
consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at
the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels,
and the overall position of the Company. The Directors only purchase
such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per
share and the beneﬁts for shareholders. 
There are no shares issued under share schemes with rights not
directly exercisable by employees as the shares are only issued when
the share option is exercised by the employee. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for
voting rights other than two acquisition agreements which restrict
the vendor shareholders from transferring shares in the Company
given as consideration for a certain period. 
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy or
otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. The agreements
between the Company and its Directors for compensation for loss of
ofﬁce are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26. 
The Company is not party to any signiﬁcant agreements which take
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a
takeover bid of the Company. 
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution
or by the Board. A Director appointed by the Board holds ofﬁce only
until the next Annual General Meeting and is not taken into account
in determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that
meeting. Unless and until otherwise determined by ordinary
resolution, the number of Directors shall not be less than two and
shall not be subject to any maximum. 
The Company’s articles of association may only be amended by a
special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 18 19
Responsibility statement of the Directors in relation to the
Group ﬁnancial statements
In accordance with the FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules,
the Directors conﬁrm to the best of their knowledge that:
  the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and
fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or
loss of the Group; and
  the Chief Executive’s statement, Finance Director’s review and
the Directors’ report include a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the Group,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties faced by the Group.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put
to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Authority to purchase own shares
On 13 March 2008 the shareholders granted the Company authority
to purchase a maximum of 32,201,668 (being 5% of issued share
capital at that date) of its own shares. This authority remains in place
at 30 September 2008.
Directors’ Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of
approving the Directors’ report are listed on page 104. Having made
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Company’s auditors, each of
these Directors conﬁrms that:
  to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
  each Director has taken all the steps a Director might
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors
are aware of that information.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
Jane Hall
Company Secretary
2 December 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 19 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Innovation Group is committed to high standards of corporate
governance. As required, this statement describes how the Group has
applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (“the Code”) published by the FSA in June 2006. The
Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the Code. 
The Board
As described in the Director’s Report on page 17 the Board comprises
two Executive Directors and ﬁve Non-Executive Directors (including a
Non-Executive Chairman). The structure of the Board is aligned with
the recommendations of the Code which for large companies requires
a Board structure where at least half the members of the Board
excluding the Chairman are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management
of the Group and for its system of corporate governance. The Board
meets regularly and prior to signiﬁcant decisions being taken. Non-
Executive Directors meet regularly as a group without the executives
present and at least once a year without the Chairman present.
During the year there were six scheduled meetings and nine Board
calls. In advance of each meeting, each Director receives
documentation concerning the Group’s operational performance, an
update on legal matters and other information to enable decisions
to be taken on the resolutions proposed. These resolutions are made
with reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board
approval, which include:
  the Group’s long term objectives, commercial strategy and
related plans
  approval of interim and ﬁnal ﬁnancial statements and reports 
  the Group’s acquisition and divestment policy and any
transactions arising
  approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration
of signiﬁcant ﬁnancing matters
  approval of all circulars, listing particulars and press releases
concerning matters decided by the Board
  the approval of the annual budgets
  matters concerning the Board and its committees’ membership
and terms of reference.
Operational management of the Group is delegated to the Executive
Directors and senior management team who meet regularly to
discuss and approve operational matters, again under a schedule of
matters reserved for this forum. These matters include project
delivery, maintaining customer relationships and initial due diligence
on mergers and acquisitions. 
The Board has concluded that the Non-Executive Directors comprising
Geoff Squire (notwithstanding his role as non-executive chairman),
Chris Banks (Senior Independent Director), David Thorpe, Kurt Lauk
and James Morley are independent of management in character,
judgement and opinion. In coming to this assessment, the Board has
taken into consideration the criteria contained in the Code which are
whether the Director:
  has been an employee of the Group within the last ﬁve years
  has, or has had within the last three years, a material business
relationship with the Group
  has received or receives additional remuneration from the Group
apart from a Director’s fee
  has close family ties with any of the Group’s advisers, Directors
or senior employees
  holds cross-directorships or has signiﬁcant links with other
Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies
  represents a signiﬁcant shareholder
  has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date
of their ﬁrst election.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, will submit themselves
for re-election at least once every three years and at the ﬁrst annual
general meeting following their appointment as a Director .
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and are entitled in furtherance of their duties to take
independent professional advice at the Group’s expense, including if
necessary requesting the attendance of external legal counsel or
other professional advisors at Board meetings. 
The Board has three standing committees which deal with speciﬁc
aspects of the Group’s affairs as determined by their written terms
of reference which are available for inspection on the Group’s website.
The Board members, their respective committee responsibilities
and their attendance details, including those where attendance has
been by telephone, for the year ended 30 September 2008 are as
follows:
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 20 21
Board and
current Audit Remuneration Nomination
committee Board Committee Committee Committee
membership (B) (A) (R) (N)
Total number of 
meetings in year 6 3 3 1
Geoff Squire
Non-Executive Chairman B*N* 6 — — 1
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer B 6 — — —
Paul Hemsley
Group Finance Director B 6 — — —
Chris Banks
Senior Independent 
Director BA*N 6 3 — 1
David Thorpe
Non-Executive Director BAR* 6 3 3 —
Kurt Lauk
Non-Executive Director BRN 6 — 3 1
James Morley
Non-Executive Director BAR 6 3 3 —
* denotes chairman
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Chris Banks (Chairman), David Thorpe
and James Morley, who are, in the opinion of the Board, independent
of management and reports ﬁndings to the Board. 
The Audit Committee meets prior to the release of ﬁnancial results
to consider the interim and full year results announcements. The
external auditors, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Group Finance Director
attend each meeting by invitation as required. The committee also
meets the auditors without the Executive Directors present, and is
authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or independent
professional advice if it considers this necessary. The purpose of the
committee includes:
  assisting the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s
ﬁnancial reporting and internal control policies and procedures
for the identiﬁcation, assessment and reporting of risks
  monitoring the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements and any
formal announcements relating to the ﬁnancial performance
of the Group
  reviewing the Group’s internal and financial controls and
monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit and agreeing the
annual internal audit plan 
  considering matters associated with the external audit process
including its effectiveness, the independence and objectivity of
external audit, the annual plan and associated fees, and making
recommendations to the Board as regards the appointment,
re-appointment or removal of the Group’s external auditors 
  reviewing the appropriateness and consistency of accounting
policies and challenging where necessary the Group’s ﬁnancial
statements taking into account matters such as decisions
requiring a major element of judgement, the clarity of
disclosures, and compliance with accounting standards
  reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in conﬁdence, raise
concerns about possible improprieties in ﬁnancial reporting or
other matters
  developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of
the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into
account ethical guidance reporting to the Board identifying areas
of improvement and recommendations.
During the year the Audit Committee met three times to fulﬁl these
responsibilities. At these meetings the Audit Committee undertook
the following activities:
  reviewed the interim and annual results and reports including
a review of matters raised by the external auditor and areas of
judgement
  reviewed the system of internal control in operation throughout
the Group
  reviewed the internal audit function and concluded that current
arrangements are adequate
  reviewed the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity
of the external auditor Ernst &Young LLP
  reviewed and agreed the level of non-audit fees payable to the
external auditor
  reviewed the Group’s compliance with the Code
  reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it had
continued to operate in an effective manner and
  reviewed the Group’s whistle blowing policy.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 21 22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises David Thorpe (Chairman),
James Morley and Kurt Lauk who are, in the opinion of the Board,
independent of management. 
The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year to:
  consider and recommend to the Board the total individual
remuneration package of each Executive Director, the Chairman
and certain senior employees. No Director plays a part in setting
their own remuneration
  propose targets for any performance related pay schemes and
measure performance against those targets
  determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements,
service agreements for the Executive Directors, termination
payments and compensation commitments.
The Committee consults the Chairman about its proposals and has
access to professional advice from outside the Group as necessary.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 26 to 30 and
includes full details of the components of Directors’ remuneration.
During the year the Remuneration Committee met three times to
fulﬁl these responsibilities.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Geoff Squire (Chairman), Chris
Banks and Kurt Lauk who are, in the opinion of the Board, independent
from management.  
There were no new Director appointments during the year .
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually and its key
responsibilities include: 
  making recommendations to the Board as to its structure, size
and composition
  preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for
any particular appointment
  being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval
of the Board, candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies as and when
they arise
  reviewing succession planning processes with regard to both
Board and senior appointments
  assessing and articulating the time needed to fulﬁl the role of
Chairman, and Non-Executive Directors 
  undertaking an annual performance evaluation to ensure 
that all members of the Board have devoted sufﬁcient time to
their duties. 
During the year the Nomination Committee met once to fulﬁl these
responsibilities. 
Performance evaluation
The Code requires each company to conduct performance evaluations
of its Board, committees and individual Directors and to report on
these evaluations. Evaluations of the individual Directors, the Board,
the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were performed
during the year through the use of tailored questionnaires. The results
of each questionnaire were reviewed and reported back to the Board
and relevant committee by the chairman of that body. In each case,
speciﬁc strengths and perceived weaknesses were highlighted and
discussed, and any resultant requirements documented.
The performance evaluation of each individual Director, including the
Chairman, was also performed during the year by the completion by
each Board member and the Company Secretary of a series of
questionnaires. The results of these were communicated to the Board
by the Chairman, or in the case of the appraisal of the Chairman, by
the senior independent Non-Executive Director noting any appropriate
actions that were required. 
Communication with shareholders
The Board recognises the signiﬁcance of effective communication
with both institutional and private investors, and the need to respond
promptly to queries received. During the year the Group published
interim ﬁnancial statements, which are available to all shareholders
via the Group’s website (www.innovation-group.com). The website
also includes material presented at institutional investor meetings,
a library of all stock exchange notices issued by the Group and other
information on the Group such as press releases and contact details.
During the year the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Group
Finance Director held presentations for, and attended meetings with,
analysts and institutional shareholders. The Senior Independent
Director attends sufﬁcient meetings to develop a balanced view of
shareholders needs. In addition the Chairman and Senior Independent
Director have notiﬁed themselves to all major shareholders and offered
themselves as an alternative point of contact for any matters of concern.
The annual general meeting is also used as a forum to introduce the
Directors to shareholders and to take questions from investors. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 22 23
All Non-Executive Directors attended the annual general meeting
held on 13 March 2008. 
The Directors meet the Group’s brokers to discuss items raised by
shareholders and feedback from the analysts attending the interim
and annual presentations is also collated by the Group’s advisors and
reviewed by the Directors. The Directors also receive copies of analyst
coverage as and when it is released. 
Internal control and risk management
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the
Group’s system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
By its nature however, such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. 
The Board views risk management as integral to good business
practice and has designed its risk identiﬁcation and management
processes so as to be part of its normal review and decision making
activities. These include a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group with
controls and review processes designed to ensure effort and
management time is focused on the areas where attention is required.
The Board is also regularly updated on issues of importance through
the Board meeting documentation and determines appropriate actions
as necessary.
As with any business, risk factors may affect the Group, its results and
the Board’s ability to deliver on its strategy. A list of some of the main
risk areas, not all of which are within the Directors’ control, is given
below:
  on a global basis the Group’s footprint within certain territories
compared to competitors  
  the Group is dependent upon the maintenance of service level
agreements with clients
  the Group relies on it’s relationships with its supplier networks
  the Group’s software solutions must remain technologically
competitive and these must be properly protected
  the Group is exposed to certain external risks including
exchange translation risks as approximately 75% of Innovation
revenues are generated outside of the UK
  the ﬁnancial or operational failure of customers.
Other factors may also affect the Group.
Key elements of the Group’s internal control system, targeted at
mitigating the above risks include:
  a clearly defined management structure and delegation of
authority to committees of the Board, executive committee and
business units
  a detailed budgeting process culminating in approval by the
Board
  timely and accurate ﬁnancial reporting of historical results 
and regular re-forecasting of future profit and cash flow
performance 
  Board information and meeting agendas linked to identiﬁed
risks to ensure review of progress in key risk areas 
  quality, knowledge and integrity of personnel maintained
through recruitment, training and communication activities 
  day to day hands-on involvement in selected business areas by
the Executive Directors 
  use of internal audit and external professional advisors.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with
Turnbull guidance. It has been in place for the year under review and
up to the date of the approval of these ﬁnancial statements. The
Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee has reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control, including
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls, based on a review of
signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed and reports prepared by management, and
the internal and external auditors.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee and the Board consider auditor objectivity and
independence, ensuring, in particular, that this is not compromised
where the auditor provides non-audit services. It is the Group’s policy
to use the services of advisors other than the external auditors for
non-audit work where conflicts may arise for significant new
assignments, but it is also recognised that in certain cases the
incumbent auditor is often best placed to provide a cost and time
efficient service, in particular in areas such as tax advice and
compliance and due diligence. In order to safeguard and help ensure
independence the Chairman of the Audit Committee is consulted
prior to each major non-audit engagement where the use of the
auditor is proposed.  
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 23 24
Going concern basis
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have formed a
judgement, at the time of approving the ﬁnancial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason the Directors have adopted the going concern
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises that to achieve our objectives over the long
term, sustainability of the environment, contributing to the local and
global communities, taking a responsible and positive approach to
employment practices and employees and generally building a position
as a respected corporate citizen are issues that cannot be overlooked. 
The Board also recognises that corporate social responsibility needs
to be considered as part of the Board’s strategy of actively managing
the risks faced by the business, its responsibilities to its clients and
stakeholders, as well as to its reputation.
The approach to corporate responsibility consequently covers three
key areas:
  governance, in which the Group has an established governance
framework compliant with the requirements of the Code 
  employees and health and safety, where the aim is to have
skilled and motivated employees working in safe environments
supported through Group HR and health and safety policies
  the environment, community involvement and corporate
conduct.
The Board as a whole is responsible for health and safety and
environmental matters however on a day to day basis these matters
are reported to the Group Finance Director .
The Board is supportive of environmental initiatives where these are
commercially viable, and continues to support the recycling program
initiated by the Group’s UK business. 
Across the Group, the following have been identiﬁed as being areas
where the Groups activities directly impact the environment:
  employee travel
  water and energy consumption
  waste management 
  site management and good housekeeping
  materials used in its purchases of ﬁxed assets and consumables.
The Group also indirectly impacts the environment through the actions
of its suppliers, in particular where the outsourcing businesses
perform supply chain management services. In these cases, the
Group’s supply chain is required to ensure it complies with local
health and safety and environmental legislation. 
Primarily as a result of Black Economic Empowerment in South Africa
the Group has continued several initiatives. This includes the Group’s
South African business sponsoring matric students to have access to
education, stationery, school uniforms and food and provides tuition
fees. Support is also being provided to READ Educational Trust to
help it develop learner study guides endorsed by the Department of
Education. This programme is to assist pupils to attain the
foundational competence to pass their ﬁnal exams. Several HIV/AIDS
initiatives are being undertaken including support for the construction
of an HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment Centre and support to several
groups providing advice and assistance to those suffering with
HIV/AIDS. A Crèche project has also commenced which enables 
the employees children to have access to quality education at a 
young age. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 24 25
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Directors are required to prepare Group ﬁnancial statements for
each ﬁnancial year which present fairly the ﬁnancial position of the
Group and the ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the Group for
that period. In preparing those Group financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8
“Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and
errors” and then apply them consistently;
  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information; 
  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc
requirements in IFRSs is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions
on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
  state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial
statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group
ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article
4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the Board
Jane Hall
Company Secretary
2 December 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 25 26
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) currently comprises
David Thorpe (Chairman), Kurt Lauk and James Morley who are, in
the opinion of the Board, independent of management. The attendance
at meetings of all members during the year is shown on page 21.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Group’s
website at www.innovation-group.com. As described in more detail in
the Corporate Governance report above, the Committee is responsible
for recommending the remuneration of the Executive Directors and
the Chairman to the Board. In addition, the Committee also reviews
the remuneration of the senior management team. 
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants,
Hewitt New Bridge Street (“HNBS”) to advise on all aspects of senior
executive remuneration. HNBS has no other connection with the
Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee
remuneration. The Chief Executive also provides guidance to the
Committee on remuneration of the senior executive team at the
invitation of the Committee. 
The remuneration of each of the Non-Executive Directors is
determined by the executive members of the Board within the limits
set out in the Articles of Association. Non-Executive Directors are
not eligible to participate in short or long term incentive plans or to
receive any pension from the Group. There have been no changes to
the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
Chairman £90,000 
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of Audit Committee £47,000
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of Remuneration Committee £47,000
Other Non-Executive Directors £44,000 
Remuneration policies
The Group’s remuneration policy which applies to the year under
review, and is intended to apply in the forthcoming year, seeks to
provide remuneration in a form and amount to attract, motivate and
retain Directors of the high calibre needed to maintain the Group’s
position as a market leader and to reward them for creating
shareholder value. In line with the Code’s recommendations, a
substantial proportion of the Executive Directors’ remuneration is
delivered through short and long term performance related pay
schemes.
There are three main elements of the remuneration package for
Executive Directors:
1. ﬁxed pay, comprising base salary, pension scheme contributions
and other beneﬁts
2. annual performance related remuneration
3. long term performance related remuneration in the form of
awards under the performance share plan (“PSP”) and the
global management incentive plan (“GMIP”) (see audited section
below).
While not directly relevant to Innovation Group, the Committee has
considered the Company’s current remuneration policy in light of the
recent Financial Services Authority’s (FSA) letter to Chief Executives
of U.K. ﬁnancial institutions. The conclusion of the Committee was that
the current remuneration structure at Innovation remains appropriate
in light of the good practice suggestions of the FSA.
Base Salaries
The salary levels of individual Executive Directors are reviewed
annually by the Committee, during the ﬁrst quarter of each ﬁnancial
year with account taken of individual performance, skill and pay levels
for similar roles in comparable international computer and software
companies and the wider market, together with modest pension
provision. A review of Executive Directors’ base salaries was
undertaken at the start of the ﬁnancial year under review and, as a
result, the base salary for the Chief Executive, Hassan Sadiq was
increased to £350,000 from £285,000. The Committee considered this
increase appropriate to maintain a broadly median base salary level
vis-à-vis companies of a comparable size (as at the time the review
at the start of the ﬁnancial year) within the FTSE Computer and
Software Services Sector and companies of a similar size drawn
across all FTSE Sectors. In addition, in setting this revised base salary
level, the Committee also took into consideration the major changes
and acquisitions taking place in the business. 
The Group Finance Director’s base salary was set at £200,000 on
appointment in May 2007 and remained at that level until the date of
his departure on 10 October 2008.
Pension & Beneﬁts
The Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution
arrangement into which the Company contributes 7.5% of base salary.
In addition to pension beneﬁts, the Executive Directors also receive
private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and a fully
expensed company car or car allowance. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 26 27
Annual Performance Related Remuneration
Year ended 30 September 2008
For the year under review, the maximum bonus opportunity for the
Chief Executive was 100% of base salary and 75% of base salary for
the Group Finance Director. These bonuses, which were payable on
a sliding scale, were dependent on the achievement of targets relating
to adjusted proﬁt (as deﬁned in the Finance Director’s Review) which
the Committee believe were stretching. Based on the Group’s
performance relative to these targets no bonus was paid to the
Executive Directors in relation to the year ended 30 September 2008.
Year ended 30 September 2009
The maximum bonus opportunity of the Chief Executive will remain
unchanged at 100% of salary for the current ﬁnancial year. It is the
Committees intention to continue to operate a maximum bonus
opportunity of 75% of base salary for the Group Finance Director once a
suitable candidate has been identiﬁed. The bonus targets are set by the
Committee at the start of each ﬁnancial year and for the current ﬁnancial
year relate to the achievement of a sliding scale of challenging adjusted
proﬁt targets (80%) (as deﬁned in the Finance Director’s Review), Group
cash ﬂow targets (10%) and Group revenue targets (10%).
Long Term Performance Related Remuneration 
The Committee reviews the incentive arrangements offered to the
senior executive population on an annual basis, taking into
consideration the strategic objectives of the Company and investors’
best practice guidelines. 
Long term incentive opportunity is currently provided to Executive
Directors through two separate plans.
Global Management Incentive Plan (“GMIP”)
The GMIP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting held in March 2007.
Executive Directors were eligible to receive “one-off” Performance
Awards (conditional awards of shares subject to challenging three
year performance targets) under the GMIP which were made to provide
a signiﬁcant incentive to maximise the growth potential associated
with the acquisition of First Notice Systems in December 2006 and to
further align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
As set out in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Chief
Executive received a conditional award of 6,000,000 shares in March
2007 under the GMIP with the Group Finance Director, following
appointment in May 2007, receiving a conditional award of 1,000,000
shares granted on 20 December 2007. The terms of the Finance
Directors award were agreed on appointment but due to restrictions
in share dealings this was the earliest available date the
Remuneration Committee was able to make the award. The
performance conditions on both these awards are measured over a
three year period commencing 1 October 2006.
Performance Conditions
Two separate earnings per share (“EPS”) growth conditions were set.
For a third of the shares comprising the Executive Directors’ awards,
vesting takes place based on the following EPS performance range:
Adjusted EPS Growth Proportion of this third
over the three year period of Award Vesting
RPI + 21% 0%
RPI + 60% 100%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points
For the remaining two thirds, vesting takes place based on the
following, more challenging EPS performance:
Adjusted EPS Growth Proportion of this two
over the three year period thirds of Award Vesting
RPI + 60% 0%
RPI + 100% 100%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points
In addition to the above EPS growth conditions, vesting will also be
contingent on the satisfaction of a total shareholder return underpin
that requires the Company’s total shareholder return to be at least
equal to the median of that of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap
Index over the performance period (although the Committee may
determine it inappropriate to apply the underpinning condition in
exceptional circumstances).
To the extent that the above performance award vests, shares will
be released one-half on 15 March 2010 with half of the balance of
shares each being released on 15 March 2011 and 15 March 2012,
subject to continued employment. The phased release of shares is
considered by the Committee to have the potential to act as substantial
retention mechanism and further align the interests of the Executive
Directors with shareholders.
The use of EPS as the primary performance measure reﬂected the
Company’s strong focus on the delivery of earnings growth with the
total shareholder return underpin reflecting the Company’s
commitment to deliver above market returns to shareholders. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 27 28
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
No further awards will be made to Executive Directors under the
GMIP. At the time of introducing the GMIP, the Committee stated its
intention to investors that the existing Performance Share Plan (see
below) would operate as the primary long-term incentive for Executive
Directors for the ﬁnancial year 30 September 2008 and beyond. This
policy was restated in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The PSP was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General
Meeting held in June 2005.
On 4 August 2008 the Chief Executive received a conditional award of
1,970,000 shares representing 100% of salary. The Group Finance
Director received a conditional award of 845,000 shares representing
75% of salary. The maximum normal award limit in the PSP is 100%
of salary. When determining grant levels the Remuneration
Committee reviewed both the actual number of shares awarded and
the percentage of salary in light of its policy objectives of motivating
and retaining the Executive Directors. Awards are dependent on the
satisfaction of challenging three year performance conditions.
Performance Conditions
For awards made to date under the PSP, the vesting of awards has
been conditional on meeting the performance conditions set out
below over a three year performance period.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (50% of awards)
Percentage of 
Three Year EPS Growth Total Award Vesting
Below RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 15%
RPI + 45% 50%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points
Total Shareholder Return (50% of awards)
The Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) is measured relative to the
constituents of the FTSE Software and Computer Services and FTSE
Support Services sectors with vesting taking place as set out below:
Percentage of 
Ranking of the Company’s TSR Total Award Vesting
Below Median No vesting
Median 15%
Upper Quartile 50%
Straight line vesting occurs between these points
While the Committee does not currently anticipate changing the
performance measures applying to PSP awards in advance of making
awards in the current ﬁnancial year, it is currently intended that the
performance ranges will be reviewed to ensure that they remain
appropriate for the current circumstances of the Company. 
Dilution limits
Shareholders approved a reworking of the Company’s dilution limits
at the AGM in March 2007 that allows it to issue of up to 12.5% of its
issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all
share plans. Previously the Company had operated within a 10% in 10
years discretionary limit and a 15% in 10 years all schemes limit. This
re-working of the existing dilution limits was considered to provide a
better balance between the need to operate competitive incentive
schemes in a global environment and limiting shareholder dilution. The
current level of dilution is approximately 8.8% and the Company
remains committed to managing dilution as efﬁciently as possible.
Service contracts 
The Directors have each entered into service agreements or letters
of appointment between themselves and the Group as noted below.
The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for all the
Executive Directors that continue indeﬁnitely unless determined by
their notice period. Each of the Non-Executive Directors is employed
for an initial term of three years. In line with the Code, each Non-
Executive Director is typically expected to serve two three-year terms,
although in certain circumstances the Board may decide to extend this
to three or more three-year terms. 
In October 2007 Geoff Squire renewed his employment terms for a
further three years, his previous letter of employment having expired.
Geoff Squire has served two three-year terms on the Board and was
invited by the Board to serve a further three years.
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive Directors
with regard to compensation in the event of loss of ofﬁce or in the event
of a change of control. 
Notice period Early
(by either termination Unexpired
Date of contract party) provision term
Geoff Squire 1 October 2007 1 month No 24 months
Hassan Sadiq 11 October 2001 12 months No
Paul Hemsley 22 May 2007 6 months No
Chris Banks 20 October 2006 1 month No 12 months
David Thorpe 20 October 2006 1 month No 12 months
Kurt Lauk 7 March 2007 3 months No 18 months
James Morley 5 March 2007 3 months No 18 months
Paul Hemsley ceased to be Group Finance Director on 10 October 2008.
Unexpired terms are only relevant to the Non-Executive Directors.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 28 29
Share ownership
The beneﬁcial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of the
Directors in ofﬁce as at 30 September 2008 and 30 September 2007
were as follows:
30 September 2008 30 September 2007
No. No.
Geoff Squire 20,000,000 10,000,000
Hassan Sadiq 1,679,287 1,679,287
Paul Hemsley 10,000 10,000
Chris Banks 700,000 560,000
David Thorpe 401,178 401,178
Kurt Lauk 40,000 40,000
James Morley 75,000 75,000
There have been no changes to the above shareholdings since the 
year end.
Total shareholder return
The following graph shows the total shareholder return for the Group
for the last ﬁve years compared to the FTSE Software and Computer
Services Index and FTSE Small Cap index. The Committee considers
these benchmark indices to be the most appropriate equity indices for
illustrating the Group’s performance.
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2008, of £100 invested in Innovation Group plc
on 30 September 2003 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap
Index and the FTSE All Share Software & Computer Services Index. The other points plotted
are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends.
0
50
100
150
200
250
30 Sept 03 30 Sept 04 30 Sept 05
Value (£)
30 Sept 06 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 07
300
Source: Thomson Financial
FTSE Small Cap Index Innovation Group plc
FTSE All Share Software & Computer Services Index
AUDITED INFORMATION
Share options and long-term incentives
The Group has adopted ﬁve share option schemes, a Performance
Share Plan and a Global Management Incentive Plan, which allow
the granting of options to acquire ordinary shares and the awarding
of conditional rights to acquire shares to Directors and employees
of the Group. Details of the four schemes being operated are given in
note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements. The share options and long term
incentives held by the Directors, who have held ofﬁce during the year,
at the year end are as follows:
Market 
price
of shares Held at Granted Forfeited  Held at Option, Earlier Expiry/
Date of when 1 October in the in the 30 September Exercise LTIP Performance exercise award
Name award awarded 2007 year year 2008 price or GMIP Conditions date date
H Sadiq 18 Aug 2003 £0.136 1,119,331 —— 1,119,331 £0.122 Option (a) 18 Aug 2005 18 Aug 2013
18 Aug 2003 £0.136 559,665 —— 559,665 £0.122 Option (a) 18 Aug 2006 18 Aug 2013
7 Sept 2004 £0.277 401,093 —— 401,093 £0.247 Option (b) 7 Sept 2006 7 Sept 2014
7 Sept 2004 £0.277 401,093 —— 401,093 £0.247 Option (b) 7 Sept 2007 7 Sept 2014
2 Sept 2004 £0.277 401,094 —— 401,094 £0.247 Option (b) 8 Sept 2008 7 Sept 2014
19 Aug 2005 £0.287 783,532 — (608,256) 175,276 £0.000 LTIP (c) 19 Aug 2008 1 Nov 2008
15 Mar 2007 £0.330 3,000,000 —— 3,000,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2010
15 Mar 2007 £0.330 1,500,000 —— 1,500,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2011
15 Mar 2007 £0.330 1,500,000 —— 1,500,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2012
4 Aug 2008 £0.155 — 1,970,000 — 1,970,000£0.000 LTIP (c) — 4 Aug 2011
P Hemsley 20 Dec 2007 £0.3225 — 500,000 — 500,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2010
20 Dec 2007 £0.3225 — 250,000 — 250,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2011
20 Dec 2007 £0.3225 — 250,000 — 250,000£0.000 GMIP (d) — 15 Mar 2012
4 Aug 2008 £0.155 — 845,000 — 845,000£0.000 LTIP (c) — 4 Aug 2011
The shares forfeited in the year did not meet the performance criteria.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 29 30
Directors’ emoluments for 2008
Basic Performance Beneﬁts Total Total
salary Fees related in kind 2008 2007
Appointed Resigned £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Geoff Squire — 90 — — 90 80
Hassan Sadiq 350 — — 49 399 533
Paul Hemsley 22 May 07 10 Oct 08 200 — — 18 218 169
Chris Banks — 47 — — 47 40
David Thorpe — 47 — — 47 40
Kurt Lauk — 44 — — 44 25
James Morley — 44 — — 44 25
Paul Smolinski 31 Jan 07 — — — — — 65
John Sidwell 19 Mar 07 21 May 07 — — — — — 266
550 272 — 67 889 1,243
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Performance conditions
Full details of performance conditions are given in note 28 to these
ﬁnancial statements.
(a) In common with all options granted by the Company prior to 
4 October 2003, these options had no performance conditions
attached. 
(b) The awards will vest and become exercisable between the dates
given above if EPS growth, adjusted for amortisation of intangible
assets, share-based payment charges and any adjustments
required in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may
arise (including for example the impact of IFRS on the Group’s 
future results) as made at the discretion of the Committee,
exceeds RPI plus 3% per annum. The base EPS being that for the
year ended 30 September 2004. 
(c) Awards will vest subject to the performance conditions set out
above for awards made under the PSP .
(d) Awards will vest subject to the performance conditions set out
above for awards made under the GMIP .
The market price of one ordinary share in the Company at 30
September 2008 was £0.0518 and the range during the year was
£0.0518 to £0.345.
Beneﬁts in kind include company car, private medical and permanent
health insurance.
In relation to his departure from the Board on 10 October 2008 a
payment of £115,662 was made to Paul Hemsley in line with his
statutory notice period. In view of the substantial changes taking
place in the business Paul Hemsley has been retained on a
consultancy basis for six months to provide continuity and to
complete a number of strategic projects. The total value of the
contract is a maximum of £150,000.
Pension entitlements
The contributions made by the Group in respect of money purchase
schemes for each Executive Director are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Hassan Sadiq 26 21
Paul Hemsley (resigned 10 October 2008) 15 5
Paul Smolinski (resigned 31 January 2007) — 4
John Sidwell (resigned 21 May 2007) — 2
41 32
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
David Thorpe
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 December 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 30 31
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
THE INNOVATION GROUP PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation
Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet,
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33. These Group
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
statements of The Innovation Group plc for the year ended 30
September 2008 and on the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group ﬁnancial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information
given in the Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information
presented in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Statement and the Finance Director’s Review that is cross referenced
from the Review of the Business section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required
to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement,
the Finance Director’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement
and the unaudited section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group
ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial statements. It
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group
ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
Group ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the
state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its loss
for the year then ended; 
  the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Group ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Reading
2 December 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 31 32
Year to Year to
30 September 30 September
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
Revenue 3,4 139,859 110,466
Cost of sales (81,356) (58,662)
Gross proﬁt 58,503 51,804
Administrative expenses excluding exceptional costs (56,505) (43,206)
Exceptional costs 5 (6,246) —
Administrative expenses (62,751) (43,206)
Operating (loss)/proﬁt 6 (4,248) 8,598
Finance revenue 8 2,166 2,090
Finance costs 9 (2,271) (1,240)
Share of proﬁt of associate 16 570 953
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (3,783) 10,401
UK income tax credit 2,174 178
Overseas income tax expense (3,462) (2,510)
Total tax expense 10 (1,288) (2,332)
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (5,071) 8,069
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (6,831) 7,161
Minority interests 1,760 908
(5,071) 8,069
Adjusted proﬁt:
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (3,783) 10,401
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3,403 2,877
Exceptional costs 6,246 —
Impairment of goodwill and investments 1,228 1,119
Share based payments 2,520 1,464
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 451 191
Adjusted proﬁt for the year 4 10,065 16,052
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 11 (1.06) 1.17
Diluted 11 (1.06) 1.14
Adjusted 11 0.52 1.93
Adjusted diluted 11 0.51 1.90
All amounts relate to continuing operations.
Dividends paid or authorised are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Year ended 30 September 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 32 33
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
30 September 2008
30 September 30 September
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 14,069 13,045
Goodwill 14 77,846 70,575
Other intangible assets 15 19,558 16,886
Investments accounted for using the equity method 16 1,641 1,609
Financial assets 16 530 301
Deferred tax assets 10 2,316 730
115,960 103,146
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 44,072 28,197
Prepayments 3,292 2,344
Other ﬁnancial assets 19 262 245
Cash and cash equivalents 20 34,749 39,826
82,375 70,612
TOTAL ASSETS 198,335 173,758
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Equity share capital 27 13,000 12,877
Share premium 37,717 36,034
Merger reserve 2,121 2,121
Foreign currency translation 447 (290)
Put option reserve (2,225) (2,225)
Retained earnings 37,834 45,052
88,894 93,569
Minority interests 2,422 1,527
TOTAL EQUITY 91,316 95,096
Non current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 266 1,719
Deferred income 22 1,320 5,841
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 24 16,127 17,876
Deferred tax liabilities 10 4,223 4,996
Provisions 25 1,033 486
22,969 30,918
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 58,680 20,952
Deferred income 22 9,849 15,978
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 24 7,925 5,066
Income tax payable 2,881 3,321
Provisions 25 4,715 2,427
84,050 47,744
TOTAL LIABILITIES 107,019 78,662
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 198,335 173,758
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 December 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
Hassan Sadiq – Director
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 33 34
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 30 September 2008
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued Share Merger Retained Translation Put Option Minority Total
capital premium reserve earnings reserves reserve Total interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2006 9,030 2,706 561 36,427 (2,523) — 46,201 795 46,996
Currency translation differences 
on foreign currency intangibles — — — — 1,313 — 1,313 — 1,313
Currency translation differences 
on net investments including 
loans to foreign subsidiaries — — — — 920 — 920 (22) 898
Total income and expense for the 
year recognised directly in equity — — — — 2,233 — 2,233 (22) 2,211
Proﬁt for the year — — — 7,161 — — 7,161 908 8,069
Total income and expense 
for the year — — — 7,161 2,233 — 9,394 886 10,280
Fair value of put option — — — — — (2,225) (2,225) — (2,225)
Dividends (note 12) — — ————— (562) (562)
Issue of share capital 3,847 35,674 1,560 — — — 41,081 — 41,081
Share issue costs — (2,346) ———— (2,346) — (2,346)
Share based payments — — — 1,464 — — 1,464 — 1,464
Minority interest acquired
with subsidiary — — ————— 408 408
At 30 September 2007 12,877 36,034 2,121 45,052 (290) (2,225) 93,569 1,527 95,096
Currency translation differences 
on foreign currency intangibles — — — — 2,136 — 2,136 — 2,136
Currency translation differences 
on net investments including 
loans to foreign subsidiaries — — — — (1,399) — (1,399) (180) (1,579)
Total income and expense for the 
year recognised directly in equity — — — — 737 — 737 (180) 557
Loss for the year — — — (6,831) — — (6,831) 1,760 (5,071)
Total income and expense 
for the year — — — (6,831) 737 — (6,094) 1,580 (4,514)
Dividends (note 12) — — — (2,907) — — (2,907) (685) (3,592)
Issue of share capital 123 1,683 ———— 1,806 — 1,806
Share based payments — — — 2,520 — — 2,520 — 2,520
At 30 September 2008 13,000 37,717 2,121 37,834 447 (2,225) 88,894 2,422 91,316
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 34 35
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY continued
Year ended 30 September 2008
Share Capital
The balance classiﬁed as share capital represents the nominal value on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising ordinary
2 pence shares.
Share Premium
The balance on the share premium account represents the premium on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital less any share issue
costs.
Merger Reserve
The merger reserve represents the premium on shares issued as consideration for acquisitions, where the acquisition was in excess of 90%
of the vendors share capital.
Translation Reserves
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of
foreign subsidiaries. 
Put Option Reserve
This reserve is used to record the fair value of a put option existing as part of the acquisition of Holmswood and Back and Manson during
2007. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 35 36
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Year ended 30 September 2008
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Group operating (loss)/proﬁt (4,248) 8,598
Adjustments to reconcile Group operating proﬁt to net cash inﬂows from operating activities
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,979 2,124
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 28 (25)
Amortisation of intangible assets 3,602 3,033
Impairment of goodwill and ﬁnancial assets 1,228 1,119
Share based payments 2,520 1,464
Share of proﬁt from associate 570 —
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 451 191
Increase in receivables (2,854) (6,463)
Increase in payables 12,245 7,899
Income taxes paid (4,397) (2,750)
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 12,124 15,190
Investing activities
Sale of property, plant and equipment 72 369
Purchases of tangible and intangible assets (7,562) (3,166)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 17 (7,642) (41,854)
Payment of deferred consideration — (1,430)
Cash acquired with subsidiaries 17 5,168 1,725
Purchase of associated undertaking — (519)
Purchase of ﬁxed asset investments (240) (254)
Sale of current asset investment — 685
Interest received 2,024 1,792
Net cash ﬂow from investing activities (8,180) (42,652)
Financing activities
Interest paid (2,098) (1,206)
Dividend paid to minorities (283) (523)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,907) —
Repayment of borrowings (17,416) (4,026)
New bank loans 14,000 14,794
Repayment of capital element of ﬁnance leases (568) (853)
Proceeds from issue of shares 37 37,112
Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities (9,235) 45,298
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (5,291) 17,836
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 39,826 18,999
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 214 2,991
Cash and cash equivalents at the year end 20 34,749 39,826
Cash and cash equivalents include £6,034,000 (2007: £7,873,000) representing funds held to settle future maintenance claims as part of the
normal administration of the outsourcing businesses. An equal amount representing the liability to the third parties involved is included as
part of the Group’s current and long term liabilities.
Cash held and available for use within the business in our South African operation of £4,903,000 (2007: £4,853,000) continues to be subject
to the normal government imposed exchange controls for that country.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 36 37
1. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS
The ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation Group plc (the ‘Group’) for the year ended 30 September 2008 were authorised for issue by the
Board of the Directors on 2 December 2008 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Hassan Sadiq. The Innovation Group
plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London
Stock Exchange.
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by
the European Union. The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2. 
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Group is required to prepare its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International
Financial Reporting Interpretation Council (“IFRIC”) interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to Companies
reporting under IFRS. The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items
which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Group ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000s), except where
otherwise indicated. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial statements of The Innovation Group plc and the entities it controls drawn up to 30
September 2008.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the
investee so as to obtain beneﬁt from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable
or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same
reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised
proﬁts and losses arising from them, are eliminated.
The results and cash ﬂows relating to a business are included in the consolidated income statement and the consolidated cash ﬂow statement
from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Minority interests represent the portion of proﬁt or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from parent shareholders’ equity.
The following German subsidiaries make use of the exemption clause included in Article 264 Paragraph 3 German Commercial Code (HGB)
and therefore do not publish their Financial Statements: 
Innovation Group Holdings GmbH 
Innovation Group AG” 
Interests in associates
The Group’s interests in associates, being those entities over which it has signiﬁcant inﬂuence and which are not subsidiaries, are accounted
for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost
plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in the
value of individual investments. The Group income statement reﬂects the share of the associate’s results after tax.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Group’s share
of the net fair value of the associate’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate
and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the associate’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater
than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the associate’s proﬁt or loss in the period in which the
investment is acquired.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 37 38
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, management has had to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have
been made in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are detailed below and in speciﬁc accounting policy notes. These judgements
involve assumptions or estimates in respect of future events which can vary from what is anticipated. 
Deferred income in the outsourcing division
Administration fees are recognised according to management’s best estimate of when effort is incurred and service delivered. 
Within the outsourcing division the Group collects certain premiums and fees from clients for the processing and settlement of future claims.
The Group assesses the extent to which future claims will be received and defers income accordingly. In some cases independently reviewed
actuarial curves are used to facilitate the release of income. During the ﬁrst half of the year, as a result of a change in market conditions in
South Africa, a change in these actuarial estimates have enabled the Group to release £2m to income due to a signiﬁcant reduction in the level
of future claims costs. Management assess these curves on a periodic basis to ensure costs are adequately reserved.
On risk contracts
For all subsidence contracts, estimates are generated for the cost of the resolution of a subsidence claim, which are subsequently adjusted
by adequacy factors to represent the actuarial risk of cost increases on these estimates. 
Within the outsourcing division the Group has a number of contracts with customers which generate income based on the Groups ability to
settle claims for these customers below agreed benchmark ﬁgures. Where management can assess with a reasonable degree of conﬁdence
the savings generated on these contracts and the share attributable to the Group, revenue is recognised to the extent the administration service
has been delivered.
Proﬁt recognition in controlled cell captives
Where the Group takes residual risk on insurance claims a cell captive is used to re-insure this risk. Management recognise proﬁt in the cell
captive based on an excess of funds held compared to future costs to settle claims. Management have sufﬁcient history on the proﬁle of these
claims to predict future costs with a high degree of accuracy.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included within intangible
assets. IFRS 3 also requires the identiﬁcation of other intangible assets acquired. Although the techniques used to value these assets are in
line with internationally used models, they do require the use of estimates which may differ from actual outcomes. Models used are the Multi
Period Excess Earnings for customer relationships and lists and the Relief From Royalty method for valuing trade names and software.
Impairment
The Group tests annually whether Goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been
determined based upon value in use calculations. The key assumptions within the calculations are:
  EBITA
  Discount rates
  Growth rates and terminal growth rates
Details of the speciﬁc rates used and the amounts which have been written off within administrative expenses in the income statement are
detailed in Note 14.
Income taxes
In recognising income taxes, assets and liabilities, management makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on
transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain. Where the ﬁnal outcome of such matters is different, or expected to
be different, from previous assessments made by management, a change in the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded
in the period in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on the following years budget, where management believe that the proﬁt is reasonably assured.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 38 39
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Share based payment
An assessment is conducted annually on the potential to achieve the performance conditions within the Performance Share Plan and the Global
Management Incentive Plan. The assessment is based upon managements expectation of future proﬁts and achievement of the long term
business plan. Where it is considered that the performance conditions will not be met those share based payments have been omitted from
the calculation of the share based payment charge.
Revenue
The Group derives its revenues from fees for transactions processed on behalf of clients, the sale of software licences, solution delivery
implementation services, maintenance and post contract customer support services (“PCS services”) and licence rental fees. 
Fees earned by the outsourcing division – The Group receives payments either as principal or agent. This is differentiated by the extent to
which the Group is at risk for the gross payment. Receipts typically comprise one or more of the following elements: administrative fees, fees
for which the Group provides an additional service or where the Group receives funds in relation to claims it has assumed the risk for settling. 
Where the Group has assumed the risk of settling claims on behalf of the client, revenue is recorded on a gross basis and includes the element
of income relating to that cost. In all other cases revenue is recorded on a net basis and comprises fees for administrative and other services.
Revenues are recognised in line with the performance of the related services or referred work, including where appropriate, an assessment
of accrued income. 
On-risk contracts
In a small number of cases the Group has entered into ‘risk and reward’ contracts.
The Group receives premiums in advance for on-risk contracts. The premium is split between administration fees paid in advance and a fund
portion, which is used to cover the future claims that relate to the contract. Any split is determined based on historical experience for
administration only services. 
In the case of service and maintenance plans the administration fees received in advance are recognised according to the effort incurred and
service delivered. The fund portion is deferred and released to reserves to the extent it is not required to fund future claims according to the
claims curve.
In the case of subsidence claims the administration fee is recognised over the period of the claim and the fund portion is deferred in a
‘repairer reserve’ in the balance sheet in order to meet future repair costs. As repair costs are incurred, income will be recognised from the
repairer reserve to cover this cost. Any anticipated losses are accrued immediately. 
Where a contract allows for revenues for generating savings against a ﬁxed cost benchmark for our customers, revenues are recognised rateably
on all claims that have been closed at the reporting date based on the expected average cost saving per claim. This is adjusted for a
deterioration factor which allows for increase in the overall estimate of the expected cost base of the claim.
Monthly policies
Monthly policies run for a ﬁxed period but are settled in advance on a monthly basis and can be cancelled at any time during the policy period
with no additional penalty being levied on the policy holder . Revenue is recognised on these policies in accordance with when the premium
is due, but only after payment has been received.
Fees earned by the software division – New solution sales often involve software licences being sold together with PCS and/or implementation
services. Where the commercial substance of such a combination is that the individual components operate independently of each other and
fair values are attributable to each of the components, each are then recognised in accordance with their respective policies described below.
Where it is not possible to attribute reliable fair values to two or more components these are viewed as a combination and revenue is
recognised on the combined revenue streams in proportion to the Group’s right to receiving consideration on the combination at the balance
sheet date. For example, when software licences are sold together with implementation services and the fair value of either element is not
determinable, both software licence and the implementation services are recognised using the percentage of completion method with
provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts being recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the
current contract cost estimates. When software licences are sold together with PCS services and the fair value of either revenue stream is
not determinable, the licence income is recognised over the period of the PCS services.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 39 40
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Monthly policies continued
The revenue recognition policies for separately identiﬁable revenue streams are as follows:
Initial licence fees – revenues are recognised when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the licence fee is
ﬁxed or determinable, the collection of the fee is reasonably assured, no signiﬁcant obligations with regard to installation or implementation
of the software remain, and customer acceptance, when applicable, has been obtained.
Maintenance and other PCS services – revenues are recognised rateably over the explicit, or an implicit, PCS services term.
Solution delivery implementation services – revenues are billed on a time-and-materials basis and are recognised as the related services
are performed. However, if the consulting agreement is a ﬁxed-fee arrangement, revenue may be recognised using the percentage of
completion method as the related services are performed, or recognised in stages on achievement of milestones. Provisions for estimated
losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the current contract cost
estimates.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred in the development of software and hardware products for use or sale by the business, and their related intellectual
property rights, is capitalised as an intangible asset only when:
  technical feasibility has been demonstrated;
  adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources exist to complete the development, which the Group intends to complete and use;
  future economic beneﬁts expected to arise are deemed probable; and
  the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised development costs are amortised
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives once the related software and hardware products are available to use.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s
interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and
is not amortised. 
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place before 1 October 2004. As a result goodwill
recognised on any business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP in the
functional currency of the acquiring entity. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review. 
The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets or equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date
of exchange, plus costs directly attributed to the acquisition. After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment
losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment losses are never reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at
business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit
is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it. 
Deferred consideration is capitalised as part of the cost of acquisition and is discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Where the
consideration is contingent, any revision to the amount payable is adjusted through goodwill. 
Where a put option exists the option is fair valued by reference to the present value of its expected exercise price. If it is considered that the
option gives the Group, in substance, present ownership in the shares, the option is considered to be contingent consideration and the
corresponding minority interest will be derecognised. Where this is not the case, the option is treated as a ﬁnancial liability with the initial
recognition in equity and subsequent fair value movements being taken to the income statement. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 40 41
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business
combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding internally generated software and capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and
expenditure is charged against income in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite or indeﬁnite. Intangible assets with ﬁnite lives are amortised over the useful
economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a ﬁnite useful life is reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial year
end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset are
accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates and adjustments
are reﬂected prospectively. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with ﬁnite lives is recognised in the income statement in the
expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset. The useful economic lives of the intangible assets are as follows:
Software licences 5 to 7 years
Customer relationships 5 to 12 years
Customer lists 2 years
Trade names 5 to 10 years
Intellectual property 5 years
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Such cost includes costs
directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended. 
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. On other assets it is calculated to write off their cost less estimated residual value, based on
prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets. These are as
follows:
Freehold property 50 years
Property improvements 10 to 15 years
Fixtures and ﬁttings 4 to 15 years
Motor vehicles 4 years 
Computer systems 5 years
Computer equipment 2 to 3 years
The useful economic lives and residual values assigned to property, plant and equipment are assessed on an annual basis. The carrying values
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not
be recoverable. 
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where
the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised
in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 41 42
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Impairment of assets continued
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no
longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss
is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in
prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are stated at the lower of the original invoiced value and recoverable amount. A provision is made against the receivable
when there is evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the full amount due.
All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are reviewed and provided for based upon estimated irrecoverable amounts
determined by reference to past default experience. Amounts which are less than six months overdue are provided where the recoverability
of the balance due is considered to be doubtful. Any amounts provided for are recorded in the income statement within administrative
expenses. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against administrative expenses within the income statement.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter carried at amortised cost.
Retirement beneﬁts
The Group contributes to Group personal pension schemes for its staff according to individual’s contract terms. Contributions payable by the
Group to these schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. All such schemes are deﬁned contribution
arrangements, the assets of which are held separately from the Group. 
For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance
sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
is calculated annually by Independent Actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated
in the currency in which the beneﬁts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in
the statement of recognised income and expenses in the period in which they arise.
Nobilas Claims & Fleet Solutions operates the Groups only deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. The scheme is based in Germany and has two
employees within the scheme. The net assets of the pension scheme amount to £145k (see note 19). This pension scheme is immaterial to
the Group for further disclosure.
Share based payments
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity settled awards so as to apply IFRS
2 only to those equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which vest on or after 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and
is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting
conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance conditions are satisﬁed.
Where awards contain both market and non-market conditions, the fair value will be determined using a model that takes into account the
market conditions, however a charge will only be incurred to the extent the non-market conditions are expected to be achieved. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 42 43
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Share based payments continued
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired
and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will
ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in
cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modiﬁed or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost
based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the
remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modiﬁcation, based on the difference between the fair value of the
original award and the fair value of the modiﬁed award, both as measured on the date of the modiﬁcation. No reduction is recognised if this
difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the
income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or
settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Holiday accruals 
Accruals are made in respect of holiday entitlements that have accrued to employees but have not been taken at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprises cash at bank and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months
or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents, as
previously deﬁned, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Investments
Investments in unquoted equity investments which do not have a reliable market value are stated at cost less provision for any impairment
in value. For investments where there is an actively traded market the investment is stated at fair value, determined by reference to a quoted
market bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet date. 
Leases and hire purchase contracts 
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and disclosed under property, plant and equipment at
their estimated fair value, or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments on the inception of each lease or contract and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The capital element of the future payments is treated as a liability and the total ﬁnance charge
is allocated over the period of the lease or contract in such a way as to give a constant charge on the outstanding liability.
Leases in which a signiﬁcant proportion of the risk and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable or receivable are charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on
translation are included in the income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency loans to foreign currency subsidiaries
which form part of the net investment. These are taken directly to equity until the date of disposal of the net investment, at which time they
are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Income and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the year, where this represents a reasonable approximation of actual exchange rates
at the date of transactions. The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign
entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 43 44
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Foreign currencies continued
The Group previously applied the exemption in IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption” to reset cumulative exchange differences on net investment in
foreign operations to zero at the date of transition.
During the year the most signiﬁcant currencies, other than Sterling, were the US Dollar, South African Rand and the Euro. The average
annual exchange rates used to convert results into Sterling are shown in the table below: 
Currency 2008 2007
US dollar 1.97 1.98
South African Rand 14.71 14.18
Euro 1.31 1.48
Current and deferred income tax
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed, based on
tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable proﬁt. 
Deferred tax liabilities or assets are recognised on all temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries and associates
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a
business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss. 
Deferred tax assets on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries or associates are recognised only to the extent that it is
probable the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future; and taxable proﬁts will be available against which the temporary
difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary
difference or unused deferred tax asset can be utilised. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis. Where
deferred tax assets are recognised subsequent to an acquisition, such as when the beneﬁt of the acquirer’s income tax loss carry forwards
have since been realised, the deferred tax income is recognised in taxation and a corresponding reduction is made to goodwill, which is
recognised as an operating expense. The carrying amount of the deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
In the United Kingdom, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as remuneration on exercise of certain employee share
options. As explained under “Share based payments” above, a remuneration expense is recorded in the Group’s income statement over the
period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options. As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases,
a deferred tax asset may be recorded. The deferred tax asset arising on share option awards is calculated as the estimated amount of tax
deduction to be obtained in the future (based on the Group’s share price at the balance sheet date) pro-rated to the extent that the services
of the employee have been rendered over the vesting period. If this amount exceeds the cumulative amount of the remuneration expense at
the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings. Similarly, current tax relief in excess of the cumulative
amount of the remuneration expense at the statutory rate is also recorded in retained earnings. No remuneration charge is recorded in
respect of options granted before 7 November 2002 which have not vested by 1 January 2005. Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and
will continue to arise on these options. The tax effects arising in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity against retained earnings.
No deferred tax asset is recognised with respect to this where there is no certainty of taxable proﬁts being generated in appropriate locations
that the deferred tax asset could be utilised against. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is
settled. This is based upon tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 44 45
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Financial assets
Financial assets are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity
investments, as appropriate. When ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of ﬁnancial assets
not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets
at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each ﬁnancial year-end.
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
Financial assets classiﬁed as held for trading are included in the category ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss’. Financial assets
are classiﬁed as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also classiﬁed as held for
trading unless they are designated and effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on investments held for trading are recognised in income. 
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets except for maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date. Such assets are carried
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
Loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in net proﬁt or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as
a deduction, net of tax, from proceeds.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity concerned.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and management believe it to be probable that
the Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to
settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to net present value where this is deemed to be material. 
Segment reporting
For reporting purposes the results of the Group are allocated between the two primary reporting segments. The Group accounting policies
as described above are applied consistently across all reporting segments. 
Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations 
The following new standards have been adopted and are effective for the current year:
IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of ﬁnancial statements – Capital
disclosures. The implementation of IFRS 7 has resulted in additional disclosures but does not impact the classiﬁcation or valuation of the Group’s
ﬁnancial instruments. Comparative information has been revised as necessary.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations would be effective for the current year but are not considered relevant and have
had no material effect on the Groups operations:
IFRIC 10 Interim ﬁnancial reporting and impairment
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 45 46
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations continued
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IAS 1 (Revised) Presentation of Financial Statements – management are assessing the impact of the revisions 
on the reporting of the Group’s operations 1 January 2009
IAS 23 (Revised) Borrowing Costs – management do not expect the revisions to be relevant to the Group 1 January 2009
IAS 27 (Revised) Consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements – management are assessing the impact of the 
revision on future Group reporting 1 July 2009
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of ﬁnancial statements 
Puttable ﬁnancial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation – management do not expect this to 
be relevant for the Group 1 January 2009
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible hedged items – management do not expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 January 2009
IFRS 1 Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS – management do not expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 January 2009
IFRS 2 Share based payment amendment vesting conditions and cancellations – management are assessing the 
impact of the amendments on future Group reporting 1 January 2009
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations – management are assessing the impact of the amendments on 
future Group reporting 1 July 2009
IFRS 7 Amendment to IFRS 7 and IAS 39 reclassiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets – management are assessing the impact 
of the amendments on future Group reporting 1 July 2008
IFRS 8 Operating segments – management are assessing the impact of the amendments on future Group reporting 1 January 2009
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Effective date
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements – management do not expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 January 2008
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes – management do not expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 July 2008
IFRIC 14 The limit on deﬁned beneﬁt asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction – management do not 
expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 January 2008
IFRIC 16 Hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation – management do not expect this to be relevant for the Group 1 October 2008
3. REVENUE
Revenue is recognised in the income statement as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Rendering of services 139,859 110,466
Finance revenue 2,166 2,090
142,025 112,556
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods or services (2007: nil).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 46 47
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group operates within two primary reporting segments, namely outsourcing and software. These are the Group’s primary reporting
format for segment information. Secondary segment information is reported geographically.
Primary basis – business segments
Year ended 30 September 2008
Outsourcing Software Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
External segment revenue 107,433 32,426 139,859
Segment result (8,339) 4,091 (4,248)
Finance revenue 1,696 470 2,166
Finance costs (1,668) (603) (2,271)
Share of proﬁt of associate 570 — 570
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (7,741) 3,958 (3,783)
Tax expense (1,288)
(Loss) after tax (before minority interest) (5,071)
Adjusted proﬁt
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (7,741) 3,958 (3,783)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3,306 97 3,403
Exceptional costs 6,078 168 6,246
Impairment of goodwill and investments 1,228 — 1,228
Share based payments 1,099 1,421 2,520
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 451 — 451
4,421 5,644 10,065
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 144,447 49,139 193,586
Unallocated assets 4,749
198,335
Segment liabilities 58,222 17,641 75,863
Unallocated liabilities 31,156
107,019
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 2,481 1,559 4,040
Intangible ﬁxed assets 9,415 4,288 13,703
Depreciation 2,189 790 2,979
Amortisation and impairment 4,725 105 4,830
Central costs have been allocated on a 75:25 (2007: 75:25) basis between outsourcing and software.
Unallocated assets comprise ﬁxed and current asset investments and deferred tax assets. Unallocated liabilities include interest bearing loans
and borrowings and taxation creditors.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 47 48
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
Primary basis – business segments
Year ended 30 September 2007
Outsourcing Software Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
External segment revenue 75,411 35,055 110,466
Segment result 4,969 3,629 8,598
Finance revenue 1,507 583 2,090
Finance costs (625) (615) (1,240)
Share of proﬁt of associate 953 — 953
Proﬁt before tax 6,804 3,597 10,401
Tax expense (2,332)
Proﬁt after tax (before minority interest) 8,069
Adjusted proﬁt
Proﬁt before tax 6,804 3,597 10,401
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2,789 88 2,877
Impairment of goodwill and investments 1,119 — 1,119
Share based payments 477 987 1,464
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 191 — 191
11,380 4,672 16,052
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 112,008 58,864 170,872
Unallocated assets 2,886
173,758
Segment liabilities 34,426 12,977 47,403
Unallocated liabilities 31,259
78,662
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 3,084 1,970 5,054
Intangible ﬁxed assets 44,821 4,758 49,579
Depreciation 879 1,245 2,124
Amortisation and impairment 2,939 94 3,033
Unallocated assets comprise ﬁxed and current asset investments and deferred tax assets. Unallocated liabilities include interest bearing loans
and borrowings and taxation creditors.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 48 49
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
Secondary format – geographical segments
The following table presents an analysis of revenue by country of origin and an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets and capital
expenditure by the geographical area in which those assets are located.
Revenue by origin and destination
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Africa 34,239 34,165
Europe 70,403 43,427
Americas 26,444 25,596
Asia Paciﬁc 8,773 7,278
139,859 110,466
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Segment assets
Africa 19,932 29,668
Europe 109,138 77,810
Americas 57,622 55,940
Asia Paciﬁc 6,894 7,454
193,586 170,872
Unallocated assets 4,749 2,886
198,335 173,758
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment
Africa 684 1,545
Europe 1,987 1,879
Americas 1,092 1,369
Asia Paciﬁc 277 261
4,040 5,054
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure – intangibles and goodwill
Africa — 4,521
Europe 13,112 6,099
Americas 543 38,569
Asia Paciﬁc 48 390
13,703 49,579
All revenue relates to services. The following table provides disclosure of the Group’s revenue analysed by the type of service. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 49 50
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION continued
Revenue by type of service
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Outsourcing 107,433 75,411
Software
Licence 6,566 3,669
Solution delivery 16,453 21,797
Licence rental 3,595 3,642
Maintenance 2,546 2,529
Hosting and bureau services 3,266 3,418
32,426 35,055
Total revenue 139,859 110,466
5. EXCEPTIONAL COSTS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Nobilas restructuring costs 2,572 —
Other restructuring costs 3,028 —
Poland closure costs 646 —
6,246 —
Following the acquisition of Nobilas Claims and Fleet solutions a restructuring process was undertaken to bring the business into line with
the structure, control and processes of the Group.
In addition a global restructuring programme was undertaken in September 2008 in order to streamline the business to achieve greater
operational and ﬁnancial efﬁciencies. Included within this are redundancy costs of £1m and a provision for restructuring the offshore facility
in South Africa of £1.9m.
6. OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT
Operating (loss)/proﬁt is stated after charging/(crediting):
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Depreciation — owned assets 2,165 1,573
— leased assets 814 551
Amortisation of intangible assets 3,602 3,033
Impairment — goodwill 1,209 679
— ﬁnancial assets 19 440
Loss/(proﬁt) on disposal of ﬁxed assets 28 (25)
Auditors’ remuneration — audit of the Group ﬁnancial statements 140 138
Other audit services — local statutory audits for subsidiaries 629 348
Other fees to auditors — services provided pursuant to legislation 30 —
— services related to taxation 158 278
Operating leases minimum lease payments — hire of plant and machinery 197 60
— other 2,236 1,617
Exchange gain (768) (234)
Research and development 3,258 3,139
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 50 51
7. STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments, share options and grants under the Performance Share Plan and Global Management Incentive Plan are
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 30 and forms part of the ﬁnancial statements.
Employee costs during the year (including Directors)
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 55,208 42,757
Social security costs 4,356 3,176
Other pension costs 1,362 930
Share based payments 1,855 1,234
62,781 48,097
Average number of persons employed
2008 2007
No. No.
Software division 613 468
Outsourcing division 1,601 1,484
Central and administration 19 19
2,233 1,971
Total number of employees at the year end 2,363 2,103
8. FINANCE REVENUE
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank interest 2,038 1,845
Fair value adjustments on interest rate swap 128 245
2,166 2,090
9. FINANCE COSTS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Other Bank loans 1,526 1,078
Finance leases 217 162
Fair value of put option 528 —
2,271 1,240
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 51 52
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
10. TAXATION
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax (income)/expense (19) (178)
Foreign tax expense 3,938 3,090
Current tax on income in the year 3,919 2,912
Adjustments in respect of prior years (232) 141
Total current tax expense 3,687 3,053
Deferred tax credit
Origination and reversal of UK temporary differences (689) —
Previously unrecognised tax losses and other temporary differences (1,466) —
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (244) (721)
Total deferred tax credit (2,399) (721)
Total income tax in the income statement 1,288 2,332
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Reconciliation of total tax charge
Group (loss)/proﬁt before tax (3,783) 10,401
Income tax using UK corporation tax rate of 29% (2007: 30%) (1,097) 3,120
Tax effects of:
Permanent differences 541 42
Goodwill impairment 356 —
Non-taxable income (168) (571)
Rate differences on overseas earnings (62) 557
Current year tax losses, no deferred tax recognised 2,427 1,141
Previously unrecognised tax losses and other temporary differences (1,466) —
Temporary differences 1,181 212
Utilisation of brought forward tax losses (1,129) (2,607)
Share based payments 705 438
Total income tax expense 1,288 2,332
Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Release of deferred tax on acquired intangibles (773) (879)
Short term temporary differences (820) 158
Decelerated capital allowances (806) —
Origination and reversal of other temporary timing differences (2,399) (721)
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net balance at 30 September
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Deferred tax on intangible assets — — (4,223) (4,996) (4,223) (4,996)
Deferred tax on short term timing differences 1,510 730 — — 1,510 730
Decelerated capital allowance 806 — — — 806 —
2,316 730 (4,223) (4,996) (1,907) (4,266)
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 52 53
10. TAXATION continued
During the year the UK corporation tax rate changed from 30% to 28%, and therefore deferred tax has been measured on the basis of this
new rate. There is no material change in the deferred tax balances due to this change in tax rate.
The Group have looked forward one accounting period in assessing the utilisation of deferred tax assets of £1,466,000 to the extent that the
realisation of future taxable proﬁts are probable and have been recognised based on the results of that accounting period.
There are temporary differences which arise in connection with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries. Since the Group is able to control the
dividend distributions from these companies it is unlikely that further UK tax on repatriation of these earnings will be payable in the foreseeable
future. Consequently, no deferred tax liability has been provided.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Decelerated capital allowances 2,551 3,287
Tax losses — trading losses 19,468 17,912
— capital losses 47,154 47,154
Unexercised share options — 1,565
69,173 69,918
Unutilised deferred tax assets largely relate to carried forward tax losses which are available for offset against future proﬁts of the companies
in which the losses have arisen. These losses do not expire. These assets have not been recognised on the basis that there is insufﬁcient evidence
that the asset will be recoverable at the balance sheet date. The assets will only be recognised with improved predictability of taxable proﬁts.  
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE
2008 2007
pence pence
Basic earnings per share (1.06) 1.17
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares
— add share options (0.03)
Diluted earnings per share (1.06) 1.14
Basic earnings per share (1.06) 1.17
Adjustments 
— amortisation 0.53 0.48
— impairment of assets 0.19 0.18
— share based payments 0.39 0.24
— exceptional costs 0.96 —
— utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 0.07 0.03
— tax effect of the above (0.56) (0.17)
Adjusted basic earnings per share 0.52 1.93
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares (0.01) (0.03)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 0.51 1.90
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 53 54
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE continued
Earnings per share is calculated as follows: 
2008 2007
Number of shares (000’s)
Average number of shares in issue used to calculate basic, diluted and adjusted basic earnings per share 646,847 612,449
Dilutive potential ordinary shares
— add share options 18,339 12,632
Shares used to calculate diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per share 665,186 625,081
2008 2007
Basic and diluted earnings (£’000)
Basic and diluted earnings for the year (6,831) 7,161
— add amortisation 3,403 2,877
— add impairment of assets 1,228 1,119
— add share based payments 2,520 1,464
— exceptional costs 6,246 —
— add utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses 451 191
— less tax effect of the above (3,605) (1,054)
Adjusted and adjusted diluted earnings for the year 3,412 11,758
12. DIVIDENDS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend of 0.3p per share for 2007 (2006: nil) 1,932 —
Interim dividend of 0.15p per share for 2008 (2007: nil) 975 —
2,907 —
Equity dividends on ordinary shares paid to minority shareholders:
Travest Investments (Pty) Limited
Interim dividend for 2008: 76,000 South African Rand per share (2007: nil) 197 —
Final dividend for 2008: 105,545 South African Rand per share (2007: nil) 274 —
Travel Insurance Consultancy (Pty) Limited
Interim dividend for 2008: 45,000 South African Rand per share (2007: nil) 86 —
Final dividend for 2008: 67,500 South African Rand per share (2007: nil) 128 —
Holmswood and Back and Manson
Final dividend for 2008: nil (2007: 4,500 Rand per share) — 148
685 148
Approved by shareholders at the subsidiaries’ AGM
TiG – Netsol Pvt Limited – nil (2007: 33.26 Pakistan Rupees per share) — 414
The dividends disclosed in 2007 above were made by Group subsidiaries in which there is a minority interest. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 54 55
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Computer 
Land and Property Fixtures Motor systems and
buildings improvements and ﬁttings vehicles equipment Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 October 2006 6,834 3,712 4,367 207 10,939 26,059
Foreign exchange — (36) 18 — 51 33
Additions — 237 506 148 3,100 3,991
Disposals — — (34) (11) (924) (969)
Acquired with subsidiary — 352 209 1 501 1,063
At 30 September 2007 6,834 4,265 5,066 345 13,667 30,177
Foreign exchange (1) 87 20 (7) 79 178
Additions 71 555 396 38 2,396 3,456
Disposals — (36) (133) (76) (710) (955)
Acquired with subsidiary — 161 184 — 239 584
At 30 September 2008 6,904 5,032 5,533 300 15,671 33,440
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2006 369 2,404 3,218 73 9,498 15,562
Foreign exchange — (2) 22 1 51 72
Charge for the year 72 94 638 78 1,242 2,124
Disposals — — (18) (1) (607) (626)
At 30 September 2007 441 2,496 3,860 151 10,184 17,132
Foreign exchange — 17 13 (3) 44 71
Charge for the year 72 246 596 68 1,997 2,979
Disposals — (36) (114) (52) (609) (811)
At 30 September 2008 513 2,723 4,355 164 11,616 19,371
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 6,391 2,309 1,178 136 4,055 14,069
At 30 September 2007 6,393 1,769 1,206 194 3,483 13,045
At 1 October 2006 6,465 1,308 1,149 134 1,441 10,497
Refer to note 24 for details of security existing on the above assets.
Land and buildings relates to assets all of which are held as freehold. Freehold land included within land and buildings totals £3,075,000 
(2007: £3,075,000). In accordance with IAS 16, this is not depreciated. Within land and buildings are assets with a net book value of £6,314,000
(2007: £6,385,000) against which the loan of £7,885,000 (2007: £3,152,000) disclosed in note 24 is secured. 
Included within the total net book value is £13,000 (2007: £51,000) and £1,408,000 (2007: £1,493,000) relating to motor vehicles, computer
equipment and systems respectively held under hire purchase or ﬁnance lease agreements. These assets are security for the obligations under
hire purchase and ﬁnance lease of £1,647,000 (2007: £1,677,000) disclosed in note 24.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 55 56
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
14. GOODWILL
Goodwill
Note £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2006 33,412
Acquisition of Motorconsult Pty Ltd 17e 383
Acquisition of IFN GmbH 17e 347
Acquisition of Sureplan International Pty Ltd 17e 6,809
Acquisition of Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Ltd 17e 2,963
Acquisition of First Notice Systems Inc. 17e 21,260
Acquisition of Conversant Data Ltd 17e 4,280
Acquisition of Addressology Ltd 17e 70
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses (191)
Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions 30
Foreign exchange 1,931
At 30 September 2007 71,294
Acquisition of Nobilas Claims and Fleet Solutions 17a 2,427
Acquisition of National Services Network Limited 17b 5,600
Acquisition of Choice Certiﬁed Contractors 17c 380
Utilisation of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses (451)
Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions 603
Foreign exchange (79)
At 30 September 2008 79,774
Amounts provided
At 1 October 2006 40
Impairment charge 679
At 30 September 2007 719
Impairment charge 1,209
At 30 September 2008 1,928
Net book value 
At 30 September 2008 77,846
At 30 September 2007 70,575
At 1 October 2006 33,372
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units. The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the
carrying value of goodwill using value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are the discount rate applied
and the future growth rate of net operating cash ﬂows. 
The goodwill acquired at 1 October 2004 has been allocated to one of two cash-generating units, outsourcing or software. Since 1 October
2004, goodwill arising on acquisition shall be allocated to individual cash-generating units, where it is possible to continue to attribute future
cash ﬂows to these cash-generating units. 
The adjustment of £603,000 in relation to the prior year mainly relates to the increase in the deferred consideration settlement for Sureplan
International (Pty) Limited (see note 21).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 56 57
14. GOODWILL continued
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units is as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Outsourcing
Pre 1 October 2004 and integrated acquisitions 17,160 10,971
Statsure (Pty) Limited — 271
Service Konzept AG — 6,384
CMC Deutschland GmbH — 39
Addressology Limited — 70
17,160 17,735
US Outsourcing 28,397 25,805
National Service Network Limited 5,600 —
Holmswood and Back and Manson 2,841 2,999
Sureplan Australia Pty Limited 1,873 1,856
AMK Associates Limited 1,849 1,825
Infront Solutions Limited 422 873
IFN GmbH 347 347
58,489 51,440
Software 
Pre 1 October 2004 and integrated acquisitions 19,357 19,135
77,846 70,575
Goodwill is allocated to either Outsourcing or Software cash generating units (CGU) unless the acquisition is not immediately integrated into
existing businesses. In which case, goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to its own separate cash generating unit.
During the year there were two material acquisitions, Nobilas Claims and Fleet Solutions which has been fully absorbed into existing
businesses and therefore the goodwill has been allocated to the Outsourcing CGU and National Service Network which has not been
immediately integrated and therefore treated as its own separate CGU. 
During the year the Statsure (Pty) Limited, Service Konzept, CMC Deutschland and Addressology have been absorbed into the core Outsourcing
business and therefore no longer considered to have their own separate cash generating unit. 
Impairment test for goodwill
The Group prepares cash ﬂow forecasts for these cash generating units based on the most recent annual budgets approved by the Board.
These are based upon detailed budgets for the coming year and internal forecasts of future growth over a ﬁve year period and cash ﬂows
beyond the ﬁve year period are extrapolated using prudent expected growth rates. Further information on the assumptions used within the
major CGUs are detailed below.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The calculation of value in use for all of the business units is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
  EBITA
  discount rates
  growth rates used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the budget period. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 57 58
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
14. GOODWILL continued
EBITA is derived from management budgets which are based upon both past performance and experience together with changes anticipated
following expected developments within each location and operating segment. 
Discount rates reﬂect management’s estimation of the rate of return that would be expected from a rational investor over the period of the
forecast. In determining these rates management has reﬂected speciﬁc risks relating to the relevant operating segments. The pre-tax
discount rates vary from 12.5% to 21.11%, speciﬁc detail for each of the major CGUs is provided below.
Growth rate estimates for a ﬁve year period, are based on discounted forecasts. The standard growth estimates for years 2 to 5 are mainly in
the range of 3% to 5%. For speciﬁc CGUs, where management have historical data which supports a different growth rate, the historical growth
rate previously achieved in similar CGUs has been used to inform the future growth rate assumptions used, giving consideration to current
market conditions. The terminal growth rate used is 1%. Further information is provided below for speciﬁc rates used on the main CGUs.
Segments
The following assumptions have been used in each of the major CGUs:
Goodwill at EBITA Growth rate Terminal growth Pre-tax
30 September 2008 Years 2 – 5 rate discount rate
Outsourcing 17,160 3% 1% 12.5%
US Outsourcing 28,397 25% 1% 13.89%
National Service Network 5,600 75%, 25%, 25%, 5% 1% 21.11%
Respectively
Other 7,332 3 – 5% 1% 12.5% – 21.11%
Software 19,357 100%, 50%, 10%, 10% 1% 12.5%
Respectively
Further details on the main CGUs is detailed below:
Outsourcing – this CGU represents pre 1 October 2004 acquisitions and all fully integrated acquisitions since that date. The growth rate used
is between 3 and 5% and these rates are conservatively below the growth expected by management for the business. The discount rate of
12.5% is based upon managements estimation of an expected rate of return for this core business. The cash ﬂows expected to be raised from
this CGU are greatly in excess of the value of goodwill held. 
US Outsourcing – this CGU represents the acquisitions made in prior years, due to integration of these businesses it is not possible to split
this CGU further . The ﬁrst acquisition within the US was a strategic acquisition in order to enter the market place. Further acquisitions and
expansion into other products has occurred during the year, although this plan is slightly behind managements timeline. However, signiﬁcant
customers have been won in late 2008 for several product ranges and this underpins managements expectations for the 2009 budget. 
A growth rate of 25% has been used for years 2 to 5 based upon historical data which has been achieved by the Group in its UK, German and
South African operations, management consider 25% to be prudent and achievable. The discount rate used of 13.89% is based upon the cost
of capital applied to these acquisitions.
National Service Network – this was acquired in the year, the budget has been derived with an expected increase in proﬁtability in the second
half of 2009 due to new contracts which are currently being concluded and a time lag for these contracts to be absorbed into the business
and an upturn in business being achieved. The growth rates of 75% for year 2 recognises these new contracts and the growth rates for the
following years are representative of the Groups experience in similar markets, but have been sensitised from managements expected plans
for the business. It is possible to reduce these growth rates to 50% and 10% growth respectively without breaching the head room between
the carrying value and the estimated recoverable amount. The discount rate used is based upon the IFRS 3 Purchase Price Allocation.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 58 59
14. GOODWILL continued
Software – The cash ﬂows for the software business for 2009 reﬂect deﬂated revenues until the launch of the new product in March 2009 and
the current level of resources being used on completing the product. Budgets for the following years reﬂect the launch of the product and
increased cash ﬂow in late 2010 and 2011 with cash ﬂow returning to a normalised level by 2012. The discount rate used is based upon
managements estimation of an expected rate of return for this core business.
Sensitivities
Other than disclosed below management believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the
cash generating unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
US Outsourcing – At the 30 September 2008 the US Outsourcing CGU carrying value exceeds its estimated recoverable amount by £2.3m. 
A change in the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation and the amount by which each key assumption must change in order
for the estimated recoverable amount to agree to the carrying value is detailed below:
Percentage point
change required
Growth rate (3.2)
Discount rate 0.8
Impairment
At 30 September 2008 no impairment provision has been made following the review of the individual CGUs. An impairment has been made
in respect of the acquisition of Choice Certiﬁed Contractors on 2 May 2008 for £380,000 which has been fully impaired in the year. The
remaining Maxicare Holdings Pty Limited goodwill balance (see below) of £829,000 has been written off in the year as management recognises
that the demand for the current Maxicare product in South Africa has fallen. Both of these businesses fall within the Outsourcing division. 
The impairment charges have been written off to administrative expenses within the income statement. 
At 30 September 2007 an impairment provision of £679,000 was made against the carrying value of the goodwill attributable to Maxicare Holdings
Pty Limited (“Maxicare”), a subsidiary of the Group’s South African subsidiary. Value in use calculations were prepared using a growth
assumption of 5% and a post tax discount rate of 11.76%. Due to both changes in the underlying market in which the subsidiary operates and
foreign exchange ﬂuctuations between Sterling and the South African Rand future cash ﬂows no longer supported the carrying value. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 59 60
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
15. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Internally
Software generated Customer Customer Trade Intellectual
licences software relationships lists names property Total
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2006 129 — 6,095 321 348 1,526 8,419
Additions 162 494 — — — — 656
Acquisitions:
IFN GmbH 17e 152 — — — — — 152
HBM Pty Ltd 17e — — 1,284 — 137 136 1,557
Sureplan International Pty Ltd 17e 59 — 830 — — — 889
First Notice Systems Inc. 17e — — 4,557 — 1,404 3,567 9,528
Conversant Data Ltd 17e — — 279 — — 193 472
Addressology Ltd 17e 182 — — — — — 182
Foreign exchange 4 — (248) 29 (109) (213) (537)
At 30 September 2007 688 494 12,797 350 1,780 5,209 21,318
Additions 197 4,280 — — — — 4,477
Disposals (14) — — — — — (14)
Acquisitions:
Nobilas Claims & Fleet Solutions 17a 8 — 119 — — — 127
National Services Network 17b — — 387 — — — 387
Foreign exchange 43 26 1,100 14 170 400 1,753
At 30 September 2008 922 4,800 14,403 364 1,950 5,609 28,048
Amortisation
At 1 October 2006 40 — 1,033 67 65 100 1,305
Charge for the year 156 — 1,772 206 193 706 3,033
Foreign exchange 4 — 58 18 2 12 94
At 1 October 2007 200 — 2,863 291 260 818 4,432
Charge for the year 250 — 2,056 30 213 1,053 3,602
Disposals (11) — — — — — (11)
Foreign exchange 20 — 322 11 32 82 467
At 30 September 2008 459 — 5,241 332 505 1,953 8,490
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 463 4,800 9,162 32 1,445 3,656 19,558
At 30 September 2007 488 494 9,934 59 1,520 4,391 16,886
At 1 October 2006 89 — 5,062 254 283 1,426 7,114
All amortisation is charged through administrative expenses in the income statement. 
No intangibles have an indeﬁnite life. 
Internally generated software relates to the development and implementation of Innovation Claims software into the Group’s outsourcing
subsidiaries. In accordance with IAS 38 amortisation will commence on this asset when it is available for use. The expected life once complete
is 5 years.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 60 61
16. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Investments accounted for under the equity method Financial assets
Associates
Share of Other
Loans Goodwill net assets investment Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2006 — 1,179 967 87 2,233
Additions 50 — — 260 310
Acquired with subsidiary — — — 9 9
Transfer to goodwill — (976) — — (976)
(Loss)/proﬁt retained for the year — (20) 973 — 953
Dividend from associate — — (451) — (451)
Foreign exchange — — 27 — 27
At 30 September 2007 50 183 1,516 356 2,105
Additions — — — 248 248
Proﬁt retained for the year — — 32 — 32
At 30 September 2008 50 183 1,548 604 2,385
Amounts provided
At 1 October 2006 — — — 55 55
Charge for the year 50 90 — — 140
At 30 September 2007 50 90 — 55 195
Charge for the year — — — 19 19
At 30 September 2008 50 90 — 74 214
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 — 93 1,548 530 2,171
At 30 September 2007 — 93 1,516 301 1,910
At 1 October 2006 — 1,179 967 32 2,178
Other investments held at 30 September 2008 includes a shareholding of 2,937,500 ordinary shares in The Claims People Group plc, a
company listed on the Alternative Investment Market with a value of £18,000 (2007: £36,000), a 5.8% (2007: 4.76%) shareholding in China Auto
Care (Cayman) Limited with a value of £502,000 (2007: £254,000), a small investment in Praesidio Risk Managers (Pty) Ltd, acquired with the
Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited acquisition, with a value of £9,000 (2007: £9,000) and a small investment in Sureplan New Zealand
Limited with a value of £2,000 (2007: £2,000).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 61 62
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
16. INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS continued
Investments in associates accounted for under the equity method
The Group has a 100% shareholding in a cell captive structure which is part of Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited (registered in South
Africa). As the Group has no control over the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the cell it has not been consolidated. The Group does have a
signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the cell and it is therefore accounted for as an associate using the equity method of accounting. The Group’s share
of net proﬁt has been brought into the income statement with the investment carried at the equity value in the balance sheet. The cell is a
“Special Purpose Entity” as deﬁned by SIC 12.
The following table illustrates the summarised ﬁnancial information of the Group’s investment in the Guardrisk cell captive. 
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Revenues 4,008 4,086
Proﬁt before tax 76 366
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Share of the associate’s balance sheet
Non-current assets 4,934 5,830
Current assets 684 97
Share of gross assets 5,618 5,927
Current liabilities (67) (569)
Non-current liabilities (4,003) (3,750)
Share of gross liabilities (4,070) (4,319)
Share of net assets 1,548 1,608
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 62 63
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
All fair values included in the following analysis are ﬁnal fair values, with the exception of National Service Network Limited which is based
upon management’s best estimate at the time of preparation of the ﬁnancial statements. Fair values will be amended as necessary in the
light of subsequent knowledge of events to the extent that these reﬂect conditions at the date of acquisition.
17a. Nobilas Claims and Fleet Solutions
On 3 December 2007, the Group acquired certain businesses and assets of Nobilas Claims and Fleet Solutions for a total cash consideration,
including acquisition costs of £5,962,000. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition.
The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) 3 127
Property, plant and equipment 493 461
Trade and other receivables 13,930 13,730
Deferred taxation — (35)
Cash and cash equivalents 5,168 5,168
Trade and other payables (15,916) (15,916)
3,678 3,535
Goodwill 2,427
5,962
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 600
Cash paid for working capital 3,196
Acquisition costs 2,166
5,962
From the date of acquisition the Nobilas European based Group has contributed a loss of £3,218,000 (£1,858,000 of which is within the statutory
Nobilas European group and £1,360,000 has been incurred within a fellow subsidiary relating to Nobilas head ofﬁce costs) to the loss before
tax of the Group. Included within this loss is an exceptional charge of £983,000. The European based group has contributed £7,947,000 to
revenue. The revenue and loss information is not available for the Nobilas US operations as this business has been immediately integrated into
other US BPO operations. However, pre integration restructuring costs have resulted in an exceptional charge of £1,589,000 in the US.
It is impracticable to obtain the pre-acquisition trading results due to the differing Group structure of the vendor prior to acquisition. 
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships. These assets have a useful economic life of ﬁve years. The remaining
excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated synergies due to business
processes and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 63 64
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17b. National Service Network Limited
On 10 June 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of National Service Network Limited for a total cash consideration, including
acquisition costs, of £1,276,000. In addition to the cash consideration already paid there exists a deferred compensation payment based on
the performance of the Company over the period to 30 September 2012. The earn-out is subject to a maximum of £5.75m.
The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the
outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 387
Property, plant and equipment 123 123
Trade receivables 244 244
Deferred taxation (108) (108)
Bank overdraft (178) (178)
Trade and other payables (4,794) (4,792)
(4,713) (4,324)
Goodwill 5,600
1,276
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 1,070
Acquisition costs 206
1,276
From the date of acquisition the Company has contributed a loss of £197,000 to the loss before tax of the Group and £817,000 to its revenues. 
If the Company had been acquired on 1 October 2007 it would have contributed £2,187,000 to the revenue and a loss of £482,000 to the loss
before tax of the Group.
The excess of purchased consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill and is attributable to anticipated synergies achievable
in the Group’s German motor outsourcing division.
17c. Other acquisitions
During the year the Group also made the following acquisitions:
Choice Certiﬁed Contractors – On the 2 May 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the Company for a cash payment of £380,000
($750,000). This investment has been fully impaired in the year . 
Innovation Group (Motorconsult) Pty Limited – On the 31 October 2007 the Group purchased the remaining 49% share of the Company for a
cash payment of £24,000 (Aus$50,000). 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 64 65
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17d. Business combination summary for the year ended 30 September 2008
The total of acquisitions made in 2008 are summarised as follows:
£’000
Intangible assets 601
Goodwill 8,027
Property, plant and equipment 498
Trade and other receivables 13,674
Deferred taxation (143)
Bank loans & overdrafts (178)
Trade and other payables (20,709)
Cash acquired with subsidiaries 5,168
Total cash to acquire subsidiaries paid in 2008 7,642
In the year to 30 September 2008 the above acquisitions contributed a loss of £3,415,000 to the loss before tax of the Group and £8,764,000
to its revenues.
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007
Motorconsult Pty Limited
A 51% shareholding of Motorconsult Pty Limited was acquired as part of the AMK Associates Limited acquisition in July 2006. However, at
30 September 2006 the net liabilities of this entity, which are not material to the Group, were not recorded in the Group ﬁnancial statements.
There was no separate consideration for this acquisition. Motorconsult Pty Limited provides service and maintenance data to the motor
industry. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to
the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Property, plant and equipment 13 13
Trade and other receivables 22 22
Cash and cash equivalents 50 50
Trade and other payables (468) (468)
(383) (383)
Goodwill 383
—
The acquisition has been included from 1 October 2006.
The net asset value at acquisition has been capitalised as goodwill and is attributable to anticipated synergies achievable in the Group’s
Australian motor outsourcing division.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 65 66
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
IFN GmbH
On 1 October 2006 Group acquired 60% of the share capital of IFN GmbH for a total cash consideration of £101,000 (€149,000). IFN GmbH provides
parts to the motor industry. The Company has subsequently been renamed to Innovation Parts GmbH. The investment has been included in
the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 152 152
Property, plant and equipment 11
Trade receivables 87 87
Other receivables 163 —
Cash and cash equivalents 88
Trade and other payables (494) (494)
(83) (246)
Goodwill 347
101
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 68
Acquisition costs 33
101
The excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill and is attributable to anticipated synergies achievable
in the Group’s German motor outsourcing division.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 66 67
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
Sureplan International Pty Limited
On 25 October 2006 the Group gained control of Sureplan International Pty Limited by acquiring 51% of the share capital. The remaining 49%
was acquired on 31 August 2007. The total cash consideration paid was £6,245,000 (USD $11,861,000). In addition to the cash consideration
already paid, there was a deferred contingent consideration payment based on performance of both the US Auto sector and entire US business
in the year to 30 September 2009. The deferred contingent consideration was a maximum of $7,500,000 (approx. £3,750,000). This deferred
contingent consideration has been settled in 2008 by way of a share issue (see note 27). Sureplan International Pty Limited is a provider of
outsourced accident and risk management solutions to the automotive leasing and self-insured ﬂeet sector in the US. The investment has
been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the
Group.
The following table reﬂects the acquisition of the 51% ownership on 25 October 2006:
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) 59 889
Property, plant and equipment 70 70
Trade and other receivables 711 711
Cash and cash equivalents 575 575
Deferred taxation 38 (211)
Trade and other payables (1,408) (1,408)
Minority interest (22) (307)
23 319
Goodwill 4,412
4,731
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 3,298
Deferred contingent cash consideration 1,190
Acquisition costs 243
4,731
The subsequent acquisition of the remaining 49% for £2,704,000 on 31 August 2007 saw the derecognition of the minority interest and further
goodwill of £2,397,000 taking the total goodwill arising on acquisition to £6,809,000.
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships. These customer relationships have a useful economic life of ﬁve years.
The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated synergies
achievable by integrating the acquisition into the US outsourcing business and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 67 68
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited
On 1 November 2006 the Group acquired 61.86% of the share capital of Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited for a total cash
consideration, including acquisition costs, of £4,526,000 (ZAR 64,185,000). In addition there exists a number of put and call options over the
minority shares. The call options are exercisable at the discretion of the Group however not currently considered to bring economic beneﬁt
to the Group and therefore deemed to have a nil fair value. The put option is exercisable at the discretion of a minority shareholder by no later
than 1 November 2009, for the Group to acquire an additional 30.58% from such minority shareholder on the same valuation basis as the original
transaction which is an earnings multiple. This put option has been valued at fair value in the balance sheet at the year end and is included
in provisions less than one year. Holmswood and Back and Manson is a leading supplier of travel insurance administration and consulting
services in South Africa. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is
attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 1,557
Investments 99
Property, plant and equipment 169 169
Trade and other receivables 303 303
Deferred taxation 63 (388)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,184 1,184
Trade and other payables (863) (863)
Minority interests (329) (408)
536 1,563
Goodwill 2,963
4,526
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 4,502
Acquisition costs 24
4,526
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships, trade names and software. These assets have a useful economic life
of nine years. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to
anticipated synergies due to business processes and the speciﬁc knowledge of the workforce.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 68 69
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
First Notice Systems Inc.
On 22 December 2006 Group acquired 100% of the share capital of First Notice Systems Inc (“FNS”) for a total cash consideration of
£29,390,000 ($54,205,000). FNS is a leading provider of claim reporting outsourcing services and software to the property and casualty
insurance markets in the US. The Company has subsequently been renamed to Innovation First Notice Inc. The acquisition was funded
entirely by a 2 for 5 rights issue completed on 13 December 2006. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at
the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 9,528
Property, plant and equipment 760 760
Trade and other receivables 1,986 1,986
Deferred taxation — (2,858)
Trade and other payables and deferred income (1,428) (1,286)
1,318 8,130
Goodwill 21,260
29,390
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 28,160
Acquisition costs 1,230
29,390
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships, software and a trade name. The customer relationships have a
useful economic life of between ﬁve and twelve years. The software has a useful economic life of seven years and the trade name ten years.
The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated synergies
achievable by integrating the acquisition into the US business, knowledge gained from the Group’s other outsourcing businesses and the speciﬁc
knowledge of the workforce.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 69 70
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
Conversant Data Limited
On 5 April 2007 the Group acquired the remaining 75% of the share capital of Conversant Data Limited for a total consideration of £4,424,000.
The consideration was a combination of cash and shares as detailed below. Since January 2006 the Group had owned 25% of this Company
and had previously accounted for its results as an associate using the equity method. Conversant Data Limited is a leading provider of anti-
fraud services to the insurance market. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date of acquisition. The
acquisition is attributable to the software segment of the Group. 
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) — 472
Property, plant and equipment 36 36
Trade and other receivables 357 357
Cash and cash equivalents (108) (108)
Deferred taxation — (142)
Trade and other payables (471) (471)
(186) 144
Goodwill 4,280
4,424
Satisﬁed by:
Cash paid in 2006 to acquire 25% shareholding 1,191
Cash paid in 2007 to acquire 75% shareholding 1,410
Issue of shares 1,661
Acquisition costs 162
4,424
Intangible assets relate to the value of acquired customer relationships and software. These intangible assets have a useful economic life of
ﬁve years. The remaining excess of purchase consideration over fair value has been capitalised as goodwill. This is attributable to anticipated
synergies achievable by integrating the acquired software with the Group’s existing products to give fraud capability across all regions. 
From 1 August 2007 the trade and assets of Conversant Data Limited have been transferred to another Group company, the Innovation Group
(EMEA) Limited. From this date it will not be possible to measure separate cash ﬂows and hence the acquired goodwill has been merged with
that of the software group.
The share premium on the issue of the consideration shares of £1,560,000 has been taken to the merger reserve.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 70 71
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17e. Year ended 30 September 2007 continued
Addressology Ltd
On 5 April 2007 the Group acquired 90.25% of the share capital of Addressology Limited for a total cash consideration of £20,000. Addressology
is a provider of insurance risk modelling focusing on subsidence and ﬂood. The investment has been included in the balance sheet at its fair
value at the date of acquisition. The acquisition is attributable to the outsourcing segment of the Group.
Book value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Intangible ﬁxed assets (excluding goodwill) 182 182
Property, plant and equipment 14 14
Trade and other receivables 44 44
Cash and cash equivalents 16 16
Trade and other payables (306) (306)
(50) (50)
Goodwill 70
20
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 20
No intangibles have been separately identiﬁed under IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) as the Company is currently in start-up mode and has
no established customer base. The value of the acquired software is deemed to be fair value.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 71 72
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
17. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued
17f. Business combination summary for the year ended 30 September 2007
The total of acquisitions made in 2007 are summarised as follows
£’000
Intangible assets 12,780
Investments 9
Goodwill 36,112
Property, plant and equipment 1,063
Trade and other receivables 3,510
Deferred taxation (3,599)
Trade and other payables (5,343)
Minority interests (408)
Cash acquired with subsidiaries 1,725
Total cash to acquire subsidiaries paid in 2006 (1,191)
Total cash to acquire subsidiaries paid in 2007 (41,854)
Total net cash outﬂow (41,320)
Total consideration paid in shares (1,661)
Total deferred consideration (1,190)
In the year to 30 September 2007 the above acquisitions contributed £3,004,000 to the proﬁt before tax of the Group and £20,261,000 to its
revenues.
If all of the above acquisitions had been held from 1 October 2006, they would have contributed £2,894,000 to the proﬁt before tax and
£23,463,000 to the revenues of the Group.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 72 73
18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 30,815 16,929
Less provision for impairment of trade receivables (506) (134)
Trade receivables – net 30,309 16,795
Other debtors 2,821 3,146
Accrued income 10,942 8,256
44,072 28,197
All amounts are due within one year. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and on average have thirty to sixty day settlement terms. 
The credit quality of the trade receivables is considered by management to be very good as a high proportion of customers are large global
companies with whom the Group trades on a long term basis. Management do not consider that there is a signiﬁcant concentration of credit
risk due to the spread of trade receivables across the global business.
Impairment of trade receivables
The movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 October (134) (276)
Provision for impairment (500) (42)
Provision for impairment on acquired trade receivables (200) —
Provision utilised 284 177
Unused provision reversed 51 5
Foreign exchange movement (7) 2
At 30 September (506) (134)
The total amount and ageing of impaired receivables against which the above provision relates are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Due at 30 September 9 10
1 month overdue — 1
2 months overdue 2 —
3 months overdue 326 24
4 or more months overdue 545 252
882 287
The following trade receivables are past due but are not considered to be impaired as there is no recent history of default by these customers.
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
1 month overdue 2,339 1,154
2 months overdue 1,377 698
3 months overdue 1,486 566
4 or more months overdue 614 635
5,816 3,053
Based on previous experience, no additional provision is required in respect of trade debtors which are not overdue.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 73 74
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Sterling 16,697 11,687
Euro 14,214 2,883
US dollar 4,649 3,989
Canadian dollar 870 2,178
South African Rand 5,471 6,255
Australian dollar 1,637 1,093
Other 534 112
44,072 28,197
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not
hold any collateral as security.
19. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Other ﬁnancial assets 262 245
Other ﬁnancial assets comprises £117,000 (2007: £245,000) relating to the fair value of an interest rate swap on the loan taken out by
Inthutuko Investments Limited in relation to the Black Economic Empowerment transaction in South Africa – see note 24 and £145,000
(2007: £nil) in respect of the German pension asset.
20. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand 30,811 34,476
Short-term deposits 3,938 5,350
34,749 39,826
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between
one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term
deposit rates.
Cash and cash equivalents include £6,034,000 (2007: £7,873,000) representing funds held to settle future maintenance claims as part of the
normal administration of the outsourcing businesses. An equal amount representing the liability to the third parties involved is included as
part of the Group’s current and long term liabilities.
Cash held and available for use within the business in our South African operation of £4,903,000 (2007: £4,853,000) continues to be subject
to the normal government imposed exchange controls for that country.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 74 75
21. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current
Trade payables 27,982 5,662
Other payables 17,418 5,303
Accruals 9,512 7,382
Dividend to minority interests 397 448
Social security and other taxes 3,371 2,157
58,680 20,952
Non current
Other payables 266 1,719
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and on average have thirty to sixty day settlement terms. 
At 30 September 2008 non current payables relates to deferred rental payments on ofﬁces in the USA.
At 30 September 2007 non current payables comprise primarily deferred contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of Sureplan
International Pty Limited during the year . Full details are given in note 17e. The deferred contingent consideration amount of £1,270,000 was
dependent upon the ﬁnancial results for the year ended 30 September 2009 and was originally payable after that date. On 7 April 2008,
5,872,849 ordinary shares of 2p each with a value of £1,769,000, see note 27, were issued in settlement of this liability.
22. DEFERRED INCOME
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current
Deferred income 9,849 15,978
Non current
Deferred income 1,320 5,841
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 75 76
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
23. INSURANCE LIABILITIES
Included within other payables and deferred income are ﬁgures that require separate disclosure under IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts”. These
are as follows:
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other payables (see ‘a’ below) Deferred income (see ‘b’ below)
On-risk contracts
At 1 October 1,361 1,513 5,087 3,884
Amounts deferred from new policies 929 2,458 1,810 5,034
Amounts released to the income statement (1,584) (2,610) (4,939) (3,982)
Foreign exchange — — (274) 151
At 30 September 706 1,361 1,684 5,087
On-risk contracts currently fall into two categories: service and maintenance plan contracts and subsidence contracts.
a Subsidence contracts
In order to manage the risks around these contracts, each individual subsidence claim is assessed for possible repudiation and total potential
exposure to costs if it is not possible to repudiate the claim. Analysis is performed on a regular basis to ensure that there are adequate funds
available to cover the assessed potential exposure to costs. This includes an assessment of costs to complete on a contract by contract basis.
If this percentage remains below 100%, then there are sufﬁcient funds to cover the potential future costs. In both the current and previous
ﬁnancial years, the percentage is below 100%. The contract includes terms to ensure that any excess of three claims greater than £75,000
are reverted to the insurer . The insurance company is invoiced in advance for claims so cash is always available to meet the repair costs. Since
October 2006 all amounts are re-insured.
b Service and maintenance plans
In order to manage the risks around these contracts all vehicles are assessed in terms of make, model, age and distance driven to date. Service
plan contracts are only sold for vehicles if the above criteria fall within set parameters. 
Fund burn analyses are performed periodically to ensure that there are adequate funds available to pay future expected claims. If this
percentage remains below 100%, then the fund is sufﬁcient to cover future claims. In both the current and previous ﬁnancial years, the
percentage is below 100%. 
The Group has on-risk contracts for both service and maintenance plans. The ratio at the end of the year is 93.1% service and 6.9% maintenance
(2007: 94.5% and 5.5% respectively). As these plans can be priced accurately due to parts having to be replaced at speciﬁc intervals, risk due
to uncertainty is mitigated to satisfactory levels.
Both service and maintenance plans expire on the earlier of either the ﬁxed length of the plan or the distance limit being reached. 
These contracts are not re-insured as management believe it is possible to price the contracts very accurately.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 76 77
24. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current
Bank loans 7,011 3,293
Other loans — 1,148
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 914 625
7,925 5,066
Non current
Bank loans 15,394 14,820
Other loans — 2,004
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase agreements 733 1,052
16,127 17,876
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Borrowings
Bank loans 22,405 18,113
Other loans (secured) — 3,152
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 1,647 1,677
24,052 22,942
Due within one year or on demand
Bank loans 7,011 3,293
Other loans (secured) — 1,148
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 914 625
Due between one and two years
Bank loans 1,769 3,319
Other loans (secured) — 1,148
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 426 489
Due between two and ﬁve years
Bank loans 5,863 2,965
Other loans (secured) — 856
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 307 563
Due after ﬁve years
Bank loans 7,762 8,536
Other loans (secured) — —
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements — —
24,052 22,942
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 77 78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
24. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
Finance leases are secured on the underlying assets.
Future minimum payments due are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Due within one year or on demand 996 756
Due between one and two years 478 588
Due between two years and ﬁve years 355 651
1,829 1,995
Future ﬁnance charges (182) (318)
1,647 1,677
The carrying value of the Groups borrowings, loans and ﬁnance lease are denominated in the following currencies:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Sterling 14,328 8,551
South African Rand 9,524 10,456
Euro — 3,935
US dollar 200 —
24,052 22,942
The average effective interest rates paid, after taking into account the impact of hedging, were as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank loans 7.2% 6.9%
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 15.5% 15.5%
Borrowings are held under both ﬁxed and ﬂoating rates as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Fixed rates
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements 1,647 1,677
Floating rates
Bank loans 22,405 21,265
24,052 22,942
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 78 79
24. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
Borrowings comprise the following:
During the year the sterling and euro denominated bank loans and mortgages were reﬁnanced and consolidated into the following two loans.
A loan of £7,885,000 secured against the Groups two freehold premises and the assets and liabilities of material subsidiaries of the Group.
This loan is repayable according to a standard quarterly repayment schedule ending on 30 September 2013. The loan bears interest at 1.5%
above LIBOR and is paid on a quarterly basis. 
A revolving credit facility of £5,700,000 secured against the assets and liabilities of material subsidiaries of the Group. The loan is repayable
on demand and bears interest at 1.35% above LIBOR, which is paid on a quarterly basis.
A bank loan of ZAR 132,000,000 was advanced to Inthutuko Investments Limited in order to acquire a 25% shareholding in The Innovation Group
(Pty) Limited as part of the Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transaction. Due to the majority share holding in Inthutuko Investments by
an Employee Beneﬁt Trust of The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited, Inthutuko is considered by management to be controlled by the Innovation
Group plc via interpretation of SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities. Interest is charged on this loan based on JIBAR rate plus a 1.25% margin. At
the same time the Group entered into an interest rate swap to ﬁx the interest rate (see note 26). Repayment of the capital is based on an increasing
ratchet as economic beneﬁt of the BEE deal is achieved. In order to obtain the loan, a guarantee for repayment of the loan was provided by
the ultimate parent company of the Group, The Innovation Group plc. As at 30 September 2008 the balance outstanding on this loan was
£8,820,000 (2007: £9,692,000).
A bank loan acquired as part of the AMK Associated Limited acquisition was repaid during the year (2007: £157,000).
The following loans were repaid as part of the above mentioned reﬁnancing of the Group:
– Other loans comprise a mortgage of £nil (2007: £3,152,000) secured on the Group’s two freehold premises. The loan was repayable according
to a standard quarterly repayment and bore interest at 1.5% above LIBOR. 
– A bank loan advanced during 2007 to purchase Sureplan International (Pty) Limited. See note 17e for further information on this transaction.
This loan, totalling £5,250,000, was advanced in two stages. The ﬁrst £3,000,000 was advanced on 25 October 2006 when the 51% stake was
acquired and a subsequent £2,250,000 on 29 August 2007 on purchase of the remaining 49%. The loan was repayable on a quarterly basis
and interest was charged at 1.625% above LIBOR. As at 30 September 2008 the balance outstanding on this loan was £nil (2007: £4,327,000).
– A bank loan utilised by the Group to purchase Innovation Property AG (previously Service Konzept AG). This loan was repayable according
to a standard quarterly repayment schedule. The loan bore interest at 2% above the European Interbank rate (Euribor) and was paid on a quarterly
basis. As at 30 September 2008 the balance outstanding on this loan was £nil (2007: £3,937,000).
There are no undrawn amounts under the facilities noted above at 30 September 2008 (30 September 2007: £nil). 
As part of the terms and conditions of the bank loans, the Group has to satisfy a number of covenants on a quarterly basis. Since the date of
the advancement of the bank loans and to the date of approval of the ﬁnancial statements, these covenants have not been breached.
Finance leases held by the Group primarily relate to the rental of ﬁxtures & ﬁttings and computer equipment for Group companies to utilise
in the course of their business. The leases cover periods of between two to ﬁve years and are payable under terms with equal monthly or quarterly
instalments. There are no other signiﬁcant restrictions in place in regards to these assets. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 79 80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
25. PROVISIONS
Property NI on share
Restructuring leases options Put option Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 September 2008
Balance at 1 October 2007 — 74 486 2,353 2,913
Provided in the year 4,030 — — 521 4,551
Utilised in the year (1,124) (71) (303) — (1,498)
Released in the year — — — — —
Foreign exchange 14 2 — (234) (218)
Balance at 30 September 2008 2,920 5 183 2,640 5,748
Non-current liabilities 850 — 183 — 1,033
Current liabilities 2,070 5 — 2,640 4,715
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the coming 24 month period. There are no signiﬁcant assumptions included in calculating these
provisions and the amounts provided are known with reasonable certainty.
Property NI on share
leases options Put option Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 30 September 2007
Balance at 1 October 2006 235 550 — 785
Additions in the year — — 2,353 2,353
Utilised in the year (161) — — (161)
Released in the year — (64) — (64)
Balance at 30 September 2007 74 486 2,353 2,913
Non-current liabilities — 486 — 486
Current liabilities 74 — 2,353 2,427
Restructuring 
This provision relates to the cost of the Group restructuring undertaken during the year . This amount will be utilised within 24 months.
NI on share options 
The share option provision reﬂects the Directors’ estimate of the employer’s national insurance and other similar tax liabilities arising on
outstanding share options. This is matched by an amount recoverable from the relevant employees which is included within other debtors. 
Property leases
The property lease provision relates to the cost of onerous lease contracts following the closure of certain locations in previous ﬁnancial periods.
Put option
This provision relates to the fair value adjustment made to the put option existing as part of the Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited
acquisition (see note 17e) calculated on the basis of a multiple of proﬁt since acquisition. The option will be fair valued at each balance sheet
date. The option expires on 30 September 2009.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 80 81
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Objectives, policies and strategies
The Group’s objective has been to ﬁnance acquisitions through new capital, cash reserves and borrowings. Investments in intangible ﬁxed
assets, property, plant and equipment have been made through cash and ﬁnance lease borrowings.
The Group’s policy towards using ﬁnancial instruments is to manage credit, interest rate, liquidity and currency exposure risk without exposing
the Group to undue risk or speculation. The policy is kept under review by the Directors according to the Group’s foreign exchange and
treasury policy.
Risk management
The risks arising from the Group’s operations are explained below.
Credit risk
The Group monitors its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. Cash investments are only allowed in liquid securities with major ﬁnancial
institutions that satisfy speciﬁc criteria. The maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying value of
ﬁnancial assets and there are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk.  
Interest rate risk
Interest bearing ﬁnancial assets comprises cash. Interest bearing ﬁnancial liabilities comprise net obligations under ﬁnance leases, bank
loans used to fund the Service Konzept and Sureplan International Pty Limited acquisitions and the Black Economic Empowerment transaction
(see note 24 for maturity proﬁle). The Group currently relies on the natural hedge of ﬁnancial assets versus ﬁnancial liabilities to manage the
risk arising from changes to ﬂoating interest rates in the majority of cases and it is generally the policy of the Group to hold assets under ﬂoating
interest rates. The only exception being in relation to the loan taken out for the Black Economic Empowerment transaction. In this instance
the Group entered into an interest rate swap to hedge against the risk of interest rate movements on the Inthutuko loan (as disclosed in note
24). The swap with a notional value of ZAR 131,278,000 (2007: ZAR 132,000,000) swapped the variable interest rate from JIBAR plus the 1.25%
margin to a ﬁxed rate of 8.5%. Gains and losses on this swap are taken to the income statement and in the current year amounted to a gain
of £128,000 (2007:£245,000). The corresponding ﬁnancial asset is disclosed in note 19.
The interest rate risk is for cash and cash equivalents only. All other ﬁnancial assets are non-interest bearing. Interest on ﬂoating rate assets
is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates, with short-term deposits being made for varying periods of between one and seven days
depending upon the immediate cash requirements of the Group. Interest rates on these assets range from 0% to 8% depending on the type
of account and the location of the Group entity.
Capital risk
The Group deﬁnes its capital as the Groups total equity, including minority interests. Its objective when managing capital are to safeguard
the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, to provide an adequate return to investors based
upon the level of risk undertaken, to have available the necessary ﬁnancial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver
future beneﬁt to investors and maintain sufﬁcient ﬁnancial resources to mitigate risks and unforeseen events.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debts.
The Group manages capital on the basis of the level of net cash held and on the equity ratio, which is calculated as equity (including minority
interest) as a percentage of total assets. The Groups capital and equity ratio are detailed below:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Capital reserves attributable to shareholders 88,894 93,569
Minority interests 2,422 1,527
Total equity 91,316 95,096
Total assets 198,335 173,758
Equity ratio 46.0% 54.7%
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 81 82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Financial liabilities – by maturity
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities. 
Year ended 30 September 2008 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Borrowings 9,196 3,500 9,730 9,981
Put option 2,640 — — —
Trade and other payables 58,680 266 — —
70,516 3,766 9,730 9,981
Year ended 30 September 2007 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Borrowings 6,213 6,168 8,163 11,381
Put option — 2,353 — —
Trade and other payables 20,952 1,719 — —
27,165 10,240 8,163 11,381
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funds are principally held either as cash or short term money market investments with a number of different major banking
institutions. Throughout the year the Group policy has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long-term borrowings with their lenders.
Short-term ﬂexibility is achieved by the use of the Group’s revolving credit facility. 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserves (comprising any undrawn borrowing facility (note 24) and cash and
cash equivalents (note 20)) on the basis of expected cash ﬂow. The Groups liquidity management policy includes reviewing cash ﬂows in
major currencies and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against internal
key performance indicators and external covenant requirements and maintaining debt ﬁnancing plans. 
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
A summary of the fair values and book values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is noted below. 
Year ended 30 September 2008
Fair value Derivatives Total
Loans and through Amortised used for carrying
receivables proﬁt or loss cost hedging amount
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables 18 30,815——— 30,815
Cash and cash equivalents 20 34,749——— 34,749
Interest rate swap 19 — — — 117 117
65,564 — — 117 65,681
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 21 — — (27,982) — (27,982)
Borrowings 24 — — (24,052) — (24,052)
Put option* — (2,640) — — (2,640)
— (2,640) (52,034) — (54,674)
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 82 83
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Year ended 30 September 2007
Fair value Derivatives Total
Loans and through Amortised used for carrying
receivables proﬁt or loss cost hedging amount
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables 18 16,929——— 16,929
Cash and cash equivalents 20 39,826——— 39,826
Interest rate swap 19 — — — 245 245
56,755 — — 245 57,000
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 21 — — (5,662) — (5,662)
Borrowings 24 — — (22,942) — (22,942)
Put option* — (2,353) — — (2,353)
— (2,353) (28,604) — (30,957)
*Liability for exercise of put option
Currency risk
Currency exposure arises through intra-group loans and trading balances throughout all Group locations. Natural hedging is employed, to
the extent possible, to minimise net exposures, however where signiﬁcant exposures arise outside of intra-group trading, it is Group policy
to enter in to formal hedging arrangements where these can be shown to be effective. It is currently management’s opinion that there is no
need for any such arrangements at this point in time. 
Currency exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency
of the operating unit involved, other than those borrowings treated as hedges of foreign equity investments. In general all overseas operating
units trade and hold assets and liabilities in their functional currency. The parent company has long term intercompany loans designated in
foreign currency. As these are of a long term nature any foreign exchange arising is taken straight to reserves.
Sensitivities
The following table details the Groups sensitivities to a change in sterling against the respective foreign currencies. The sensitivities represent
management’s assessment of the effect on monetary assets of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis of the
Groups exposure to foreign currency risk at the year end has been determined based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout
the ﬁnancial year and all other variables remain constant.
A positive number indicates an increase in proﬁt after taxation and other components of equity where sterling weakens against the respective
currencies. A strengthening of sterling would have the equal but opposite effect on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
2008 2007
Sensitivity Proﬁt Equity Proﬁt Equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Rand 10% 207 3,207 492 3,413
Euros 10% 171 5,369 246 868
US dollar 15% 1,174 10,296 2 9,347
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to changes of 1% in interest rates throughout the year, with all other variables remaining constant.
A positive number indicates an increase in proﬁt after taxation and equity (net assets) where interest rates rise. A fall in interest rates would
have the equal but opposite effect on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
2008 2007
Proﬁt Equity Proﬁt Equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling 90 90 60 60
Rand (90) (90) 30 30
Euros 20 20 30 30
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 83 84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
27. SHARE CAPITAL
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Authorised share capital
1,000,000,000 (2007: 1,000,000,000) ordinary shares of 2 pence each 20,000 20,000
2008 2007
No. £’000 No. £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 2 pence each 650,018,142 13,000 643,837,477 12,877
The following share issues took place during the current ﬁnancial year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
9 January 2008 Exercise of options 195,883 0.122 23,898
7 April 2008 Sureplan deferred consideration 5,872,849 0.3013 1,769,196
28 July 2008 Exercise of options 111,933 0.122 13,655
The following share issues took place during the previous ﬁnancial year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
14 December 2006 Rights Issue – rights exercised 171,335,263 0.210 35,980,405
18 December 2006 Rights Issue – rump shares exercised 9,265,209 0.280 2,594,259
15 January 2007 Exercise of options 559,665 0.122 68,279
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 988,742 0.122 120,627
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 1,119,331 0.125 139,916
06 February 2007 Exercise of options 449,286 0.247 110,974
06 February 2007 Exercise of options 1,678,996 0.122 204,838
08 February 2007 Exercise of options 65,293 0.122 7,966
20 February 2007 Exercise of options 503,699 0.065 32,740
04 April 2007 Conversant Data Limited consideration 4,454,422 0.328 1,461,051
04 April 2007 Conversant Poland consideration 609,757 0.328 200,000
31 May 2007 Exercise of options 1,119,331 0.122 136,558
31 May 2007 Exercise of options 186,555 0.125 23,319
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 84 85
28. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
The Group operates four equity settled share-based payment arrangements: the unapproved company share option scheme, the global share
option and incentive plan, the performance share plan and the global management incentive plan. A summary of the main terms of the
arrangements is given below, with particular reference to the terms of those grants for which a share-based payment charge has been recognised.
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
No grants have been made under this scheme since 10 August 2000 and it is the expectation of management that the scheme will not be used
in the future. There are no performance conditions attached to these options. All options issued under this scheme are signiﬁcantly underwater .
Due to the early date of grant no share-based payment charge has been recognised for any options under this scheme.
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Options granted under this scheme have historically been to senior executives and management across the Group, as well as to staff with
high potential or to recognise signiﬁcant achievements. Under this scheme options will usually vest after between two and ﬁve years and be
exercisable between two and ten years following grant, provided that the employee remains in employment at the date of exercise. Options
issued up to 16 March 2004 have no performance conditions attached. Awards issued after this date will vest and become exercisable between
the given dates if EPS growth, adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles, share-based payment charges and any adjustments required
in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may arise as made at the discretion of the remuneration committee, exceeds 3% per annum.
The base EPS is that for the year ended 30 September 2004. Future options under this scheme will vest based on EPS growth plus 10%. 
No awards have been granted under this scheme in the current year .
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Awards under this scheme are made to senior executives and managers across the Group. The awards will vest subject to meeting the
following two performance conditions. Vesting of up to 50 per cent. of the award is based upon the Group’s Total Shareholder Return ("TSR")
relative to the TSR of a comparator group of other companies comprising the software and computer services and the support services
sector of the FTSE, over a three year performance period ending 30 September 2007. If the Group’s TSR growth ranks below the 50th percentile
over the three year period 0 per cent. of the award will vest. At the 50th percentile 15 per cent. will vest and at 75 per cent. or above, 50 per
cent. will vest. Between the 50th and 75th percentile vesting will occur on a straight line basis. Vesting of the remaining 50 per cent. of the
award will be subject to the growth of the Group’s adjusted EPS. 15 per cent. of an award will vest for total adjusted EPS growth of 12 percent
above RPI over the performance period, with 50 per cent. of an award vesting for total adjusted EPS growth of 45 per cent. or more above RPI
over the performance period. Between these points, vesting will occur on a straight line basis. 
Global Management Incentive Plan (“GMIP”)
This scheme was implemented during the year following shareholder approval at the AGM in March 2007. The GMIP enables three types of
awards to be made:
  Performance awards
  Restricted Stock Awards; and
  Deferred bonus awards
Executive Directors only are eligible for performance awards with other types of award being introduced to motivate the most senior non-Board
executives, particularly those based outside of the UK. No deferred bonus awards were made.
Performance conditions on all awards are measured over a three year period commencing 1 October 2006. The performance awards vest 50%
in March 2010, 25% in March 2011 and 25% in March 2012 subject to meeting earnings per share (“EPS”) growth targets. No awards will vest
until adjusted EPS growth is RPI+ 21%. One third of the awards will vest on achieving an adjusted EPS growth of RPI+ 60% with the remaining
two thirds vesting on achieving adjusted EPS growth of RPI +100%. Vesting takes place on a straight line basis between these amounts. In addition
to the adjusted EPS growth conditions, vesting will also be contingent on the satisfaction of a total shareholder return underpin which requires
the Company total shareholder return to be at least equal to the median of that of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the
performance period (although the Remuneration Committee may determine it inappropriate to apply the underpinning condition in exceptional
circumstances). The restricted stock awards vest 50% in December 2009, 25% in December 2010 and 25% in December 2011 subject to meeting
EPS growth targets. No awards will vest unless the adjusted EPS growth over the three year period to 30 September 2009 is RPI+ 12% and there
is continued employment. On achieving this adjusted EPS growth awards vest in full, subject to continued employment.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 85 86
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
28. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
The number of shares subject to options (including those granted to Executive Directors), the date on which they were granted and the periods
in which they may be exercised are given below. Options/LTIP grants and corresponding prices have been adjusted to reﬂect the rights issue
completed in December 2006 in line with the relevant plan rules. The intended impact of the adjustment was to maintain the “value” to each
option/LTIP award pre and post rights issue.
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2008 2007
No. No.
24 May 2000 £2.05 a Between 2 and 10 years 766,736 856,281
31 May 2000 £2.05 a Between 2 and 10 years 145,512 145,512
26 June 2000 £2.89 a Between 2 and 10 years 22,386 22,386
10 August 2000 £4.15 a Between 2 and 10 years 421,420 446,045
1,356,054 1,470,224
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2008 2007
No. No.
15 June 2001 £0.02 a Between 2 and 10 years 7,528 8,466
16 July 2001 £2.65 a Between 2 and 10 years 559,665 559,665
19 October 2001 £2.20 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,686,635 2,503,178
18 August 2003 £0.122 a Between 2 and 10 years 5,736,705 5,941,914
18 August 2003 £0.122 a Between 3 and 10 years 2,910,124 3,012,729
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,181,364 1,287,694
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 3 and 10 years 590,682 643,847
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 4 and 10 years 590,682 643,847
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 2 and 10 years 1,007,397 1,044,708
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 3 and 10 years 1,007,398 1,044,709
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 4 and 10 years 1,007,398 1,044,709
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 3 and 10 years 149,243 186,555
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 4 and 10 years 149,244 186,555
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 5 and 10 years 149,244 186,554
16,733,309 18,295,130
Performance Share Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2008 2007
No. No.
19 August 2005 £0.00 c 1 November 2008 786,239 4,236,671
4 August 2008 £0.00 c 4 August 2011 8,650,000 —
9,436,239 4,236,671
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 86 87
28. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Global Management Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2008 2007
No. No.
Performance awards
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2010 3,000,000 3,000,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2011 1,500,000 1,500,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2012 1,500,000 1,500,000
20 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2010 500,000 —
20 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2011 250,000 —
20 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2012 250,000 —
7,000,000 6,000,000
Restricted stock awards
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2009 5,350,000 5,350,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2010 2,675,000 2,675,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2011 2,675,000 2,675,000
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2009 1,500,000 —
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2010 750,000 —
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2011 750,000 —
13,700,000 10,700,000
Performance conditions
a These options had no performance conditions attached.
b Performance conditions detailed in ‘Global Share Option and Incentive Plan’ above.
c Performance conditions detailed in ‘Performance Share Plan’ above. 
d Performance conditions detailed in ‘Global Management Incentive Plan’ above.
Jala Capital and Employee Trust Fund
Through the Black Economic Empowerment (“BEE”) transaction 25% of our South African subsidiary was sold to Inthutuko Investments
Limited (“Inthutuko”). Inthutuko is owned 77.8% by an Employee Share Trust, the beneﬁciaries of which are the Group’s South African
Employees and 22.2% by Jala Capital Investments Limited (“Jala”). Inthutuko is a special purpose vehicle in accordance with SIC 12 and 
is controlled by the Group, hence consolidated. The loan received by Inthutuko to provide the purchase consideration is guaranteed by 
The Innovation Group plc.
The shares given to Jala are contingent on the achievement of future revenue targets. In the event that these future revenue targets are met,
the shares granted to Jala become owned by Jala for no consideration. If the revenue targets are not met, Jala may purchase the shares for
a ﬁxed amount of ZAR 5,000,000 (2007: ZAR 5,000,000). The shares given to Jala attract an IFRS 2 charge. This charge has been calculated
over a three year period at £2,100,000 with £665,000 (2007: £230,000) being charged in the current year and is the fair value of the shares granted
to Jala.
The employees are entitled to income from the dividends granted to the trust for their beneﬁt on a basis proportional to length of service. 
No shares are ultimately held by the individuals and hence there is no IFRS2 charge. This charge will be charged to administrative expenses
in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. Further details of the BEE transaction are given in note 33.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:54  Page 87 88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
28. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
The movements in the number of share options and shares under the “PSP” and “GMIP” schemes is shown below.
Unapproved Company Global Share Option Performance Share Plan GMIP
Share Option Scheme and Incentive Plan
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average Number of average Number of average
awards exercise price awards exercise price Awards exercise price Awards exercise price
£ £££
Outstanding at 
1 October 2006 1,343,500 £3.00 23,227,673 £0.49 4,610,000 £0.00 — —
Exercisable at
1 October 2006 1,343,500 £3.00 18,660,229 £0.53————
Uplift due to rights issue 160,322 — 2,771,798 — 550,119———
Outstanding as amended 1,503,822 £2.68 25,999,471 £0.44 5,160,119———
Exercisable as amended 1,503,822 £2.68 20,886,986 £0.47————
Granted —— ———— 16,700,000 —
Exercised — — (6,670,898) £0.13 (54,085) — — —
Forfeited (33,598) £2.05 (1,033,443) £0.47 (869,363) — — —
Outstanding at 
30 September 2007 1,470,224 £2.70 18,295,130 £0.54 4,236,671 £0.00 16,700,000 £0.00
Exercisable at 
30 September 2007 1,470,224 £2.70 16,046,910 £0.57 ————
Granted — — — — 10,095,000 — 5,000,000 —
Exercised — — (307,816) £0.12————
Forfeited (114,170) £2.40 (1,254,005) £1.41 (4,895,432) — (1,000,000)
Lapsed — — ——————
Outstanding at
30 September 2008 1,356,054 £2.70 16,733,309 £0.47 9,436,239 £0.00 20,700,000 £0.00
Exercisable at
30 September 2008 1,356,054 £2,70 16,285,578 £0.48 ————
Range of exercise prices £2.05–£4.15 £0.02–£2.65 £0.00 £0.00
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life
Year ended 
30 September 2008 2 years 5 years 3 years 2 years
Year ended 
30 September 2007 3 years 6 years 1 year 3 years
Included within this balance are options over 3,609,882 (2007: 4,541,533) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as
the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modiﬁed and therefore do not need to
be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year to 30 September 2008 was £0.25 (2007: £0.35).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 88 89
28. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Assumptions used in the valuation of share-based payments
In calculating the fair value of the share-based payment arrangements under the Global Share Option and Incentive Plan and the Performance
Share Plan the Group has used the Hull White trinomial model. The fair value of the awards granted under the GMIP scheme and the
assumptions used in the calculation of their fair value on the date of grant were as follows:
2008 2008 2007
Performance Share Global Management Global Management
Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan
Weighted average assumptions
Fair value per share option £0.17 £0.30 £0.29
Share price on date of grant £0.18 £0.34 £0.33
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
Share options granted in the year 10,095,000 5,000,000 16,700,000
Vesting period (years) 33 3
Expected volatility 150% 150% 50%
Expected life (years) n/a n/a n/a
Risk-free rate of return 4.5% 4.5% 5.75%
The only awards granted during the year were under the Global Management and Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan. 
Expected volatility was determined using the historic volatility of the Company’s share price over the expected life of the option. 
At the date of grant, it was assumed that the non-market performance conditions for all awards would be met. Adjustments will be made in
future periods, where necessary, to reﬂect updated assessments of whether the performance conditions will be met. The share-based
payment expense also takes into account the expected and actual forfeitures over the vesting period as a result of cessation of employment. 
A charge of £1,855,000 (2007: £1,234,000) has been made in the income statement to spread the fair value of the share options under the Global
and Share Option and Incentive Plan, awards under the PSP and GMIP schemes. 
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS2 and has applied the standard only to those awards granted after 7
November 2002 which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
29. OBLIGATIONS UNDER OPERATING LEASES
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of equipment. At 30 September 2008 the Group had outstanding
commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2008 2007 2008 2007
Future minimum lease payments payable £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year 1,678 2,100 550 184
Between one and two years 1,332 1,414 258 148
Between two and ﬁve years 1,309 829 115 141
After ﬁve years 354 250 24 —
4,673 4,593 947 473
Group companies other than the parent have sublet ofﬁce space in certain properties. The future minimum sublease payments expected to
be received under non-cancellable sublease agreements as at 30 September 2008 is £nil (2007: £104,000). Operating leases operated by the
Group primarily relate to the rental of ofﬁce space for the use of Group companies. The leases cover periods of between two to six years and
the majority of these leases have options to renew at the expiry of these periods. An extension of the lease would typically be associated by
an escalation in the level of the rent payable on the lease in line with market changes. There are no other signiﬁcant restrictions in place in
regards to the assets being leased.  
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 89 90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
30. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There are no post balance sheet events at 30 September 2008.
31. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
At 30 September 2008 there was no capital expenditure (2007: £nil) contracted for and not provided in the ﬁnancial statements.
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not included
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. 
Sales to Amounts owed
related party by related party
Trading transactions £’000 £’000
Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited
2008 1,179 —
2007 1,411 —
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management, recognised in the income statement, is set out below in aggregate.
Key management are deﬁned as the Board of the Innovation Group plc and other persons deﬁned as “persons discharging management
responsibility” under the rules of the Financial Services Authority. Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is disclosed within
the Directors’ remuneration report. 
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee beneﬁts 2,141 1,723
Post-employment beneﬁts 94 83
Share-based payments 974 638
3,209 2,444
In 2007 in addition to the payments above Paul Smolinksi received £448,000 from the exercise of share options and awards and John Sidwell
received £230,000 as compensation for loss of ofﬁce.
33. BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT
In May 2007 the Group completed a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transaction in respect of its South African subsidiary, The Innovation
Group (Pty) Limited. Through this transaction, Inthutuko Investments (Pty) Limited (Inthutuko) obtained a bank loan of ZAR 132,000,000 to acquire
a 25% shareholding in The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited. Full details on this loan, guaranteed by the parent company, Innovation Group plc,
are given in note 24.
Inthutuko is 77.8% owned by an Employee Beneﬁt Trust (EBT) of The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited and 22.2% owned by Jala Capital. Jala
Capital is an independent third party owned by Investec Bank, Salala Lesela, Pumulani Ncube and Kumaran Padayachee. Since the majority
shareholding in Inthutuko is by the EBT of The Innovation Group (Pty), Inthutuko is considered by management to be controlled by the Group
via interpretation of SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities. In view of this Inthutuko is consolidated into the Group accounts. 
The shares awarded to Jala Capital are subject to an IFRS 2 share based payment charge (see note 27). Jala Capital’s rights to the shares is
conditional on the achievement of revenue targets by The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited. The shares granted to Jala have to be held for a minimum
of three years. After this date Jala are entitled to sell their shares after offering them ﬁrst to the EBT and secondly to Innovation Group before any
sale to third party can occur . The EBT has to hold its shares for a minimum of 3 years. After this date the EBT is entitled to sell its shares after
offering them ﬁrst to Jala and secondly to Innovation Group before any sale to a third party can occur . Neither Jala nor Innovation Group is obliged
to purchase the shares. No disposal of the shares granted to Jala Capital is recorded until Jala Capital’s right to the shares becomes unconditional. 
In the event that future revenue targets are met, the shares granted to Jala become owned by Jala for no consideration. If the revenue targets
are not met, Jala may purchase the shares for a ﬁxed amount of ZAR 5,000,000 (2007: ZAR 5,000,000).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 90 91
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements
for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for
that period. In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are
required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 91 92
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE INNOVATION
GROUP PLC IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of The
Innovation Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which
comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 16.
These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of 
The Innovation Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report
is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in
the Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information presented
in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement and the
Finance Director’s Review that is cross referenced from the Review
of the Business section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement,
the Finance Director’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement
and Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates
and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent
Company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent
Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
30 September 2008;  
  the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985;
and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with
the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Reading
2 December 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 92 93
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
FIXED ASSETS
Investments 4 189,743 126,848
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 5 514 1,323
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 23,298 31,523
Debtors 23,812 32,846
Cash at bank and in hand 6,391 7,740
30,203 40,586
CREDITORS: amounts falling due within one year 6 (10,293) (2,055)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 19,910 38,531
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 209,653 165,379
CREDITORS: amounts falling due after more than one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 7 (6,225) (2,885)
Other creditors 7 (62,017) —
(68,242) (2,885)
PROVISION FOR LIABILITIES 8 (183) (486)
NET ASSETS 141,228 162,008
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 9 13,000 12,877
Share premium account 11 37,717 36,034
Merger reserve 11 2,121 2,121
Proﬁt and loss account 11 88,390 110,976
EQUITY 141,228 162,008
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 December 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
Hassan Sadiq
Director
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Year ended 30 September 2008
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 93 94
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”). The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements are
set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year. The Company has taken advantage of the
exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual proﬁt and loss account and related notes.
Financial assets
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Investments in unquoted equity investments which do not have a reliable market value are stated at cost less provision for any impairment
in value. For investments where there is an actively traded market the investment is stated at fair value, determined by reference to a quoted
market bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet date. 
Cash
Cash in bank represents cash in hand and deposits repayable with any qualifying institution. 
Debtors
Debtors are recorded at initial measurement and are provided for where management consider an element of the balance to be irrecoverable. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes party to the contracts which give rise to them and are classiﬁed as ﬁnancial
liabilities at fair value through the proﬁt and loss or loans and payables as appropriate. When ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised initially, they
are measured at fair value, plus in the case of ﬁnancial liabilities not at fair value through proﬁt and loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Company determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial liabilities at initial recognition.
A ﬁnancial liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing ﬁnancial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing
liability are substantially modiﬁed, such an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition
of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in proﬁt
or loss. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and management believe it to be probable
that the Company will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure
required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to net present value where this is deemed to be material.  
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable on
settlement and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the proﬁt and loss account using the effective rate of interest method. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on
translation are included in the proﬁt and loss account. 
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 94 95
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right
to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in
which they are included in ﬁnancial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not
that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised once paid and once formally approved and recorded as a liability and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Share-based payments
Employees (including Directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees
render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’). 
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted using
an appropriate model. 
A cost is recorded where the employee performs a signiﬁcant majority of their services together with an assessment based on where they
are contractually employed and where their other remuneration is incurred. Since there are no employees within The Innovation Group plc
no charge has been recorded in the current or previous year within the income statement. 
The fair value of the equity-settled share-based payment is recognised in the relevant subsidiary operating company at fair value. The expense
is therefore recognised in the subsidiary operating companies, with the equity reserve being recognised in the Group Company and a capital
contribution within Investments – shares in subsidiary undertakings.
2. (LOSS)/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY 
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its proﬁt and loss account. The parent company’s
loss for the year ended 30 September 2008 was £21,534,000 (2007: proﬁt £39,735,000). 
3. DIVIDEND NOTE
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend of 0.3p per share for 2007 (2006: nil) 1,932 —
Interim dividend of 0.15p per share for 2008 (2007: nil) 975 —
2,907 —
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 95 96
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4. INVESTMENTS
Shares in subsidiary Other
undertakings investments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
The Company
Cost
At 1 October 2007 589,382 538 589,920
Additions 85,463 248 85,711
Capital contribution to subsidiary companies * 1,855 — 1,855
At 30 September 2008 676,700 786 677,486
At 1 October 2007 462,825 247 463,072
Impairment in the year 24,653 18 24,671
At 30 September 2008 487,478 265 487,743
Net book value
At 30 September 2008 189,222 521 189,743
At 30 September 2007 126,557 291 126,848
During the year additional investments of £78,225,000 were made in subsidiary undertakings by way of issuance of shares by these subsidiaries.
On the 3 December 2007 the Nobilas Claims and Fleet Solutions group were acquired for £5,962,000 and on 10 June 2008 National Service
Network Limited was acquired for £1,276,000. 
Other investments held at 30 September 2008 represent a shareholding of 2,937,500 ordinary shares in The Claims People Group plc, a
company listed on the Alternative Investment Market with a value of £18,000 (2007: £36,000), a 5.8% (2007: 4.76%) shareholding in China Auto
Care (Cayman) Limited with a value of £502,000 (2007: £254,000).
On 31 March 2007, the Company impaired in full its investment in the associate undertaking I.V.R.B. Limited due to uncertainty of the
recoverability of this investment. 
The impairment of £24,653,000 relates to the First Notice Systems, Sureplan US and Innovation Auto and the discount rate used in assessing
the impairment under FRS 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed asset’ was 13.89%.
* This represents the charge associated with the share options granted by The Innovation Group plc to employees of subsidiary companies.
The cumulative charge to date is £4,017,000 (2007: £2,162,000).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 96 97
4. INVESTMENTS continued
The Company held the following investments in principal subsidiary undertakings during the year:
Direct/indirect 
Country of holding and percentage 
Subsidiary undertakings incorporation of ordinary shares held
Technology Solutions
The Innovation Group (EMEA) Limited UK Direct 100%
The Innovation Group Australia Pty Limited Australia Indirect  100%
The Innovation Group Japan Pty Limited Australia Indirect  100%
The Innovation Group Inc USA Indirect 100%
The Innovation Group (TIG) Limited Canada Direct  100%
TiG – Netsol (Pvt) Limited * Pakistan Direct 49.5% 
Outsourcing
Motorcare Services Limited UK Indirect  100%
The Innovation Group (Pty) Limited (formally eQuals Group (Proprietary) Limited) South Africa Indirect  75%
Innovation Group Motor GmbH (formally The Innovation Group (SBPO) GmbH) Germany Indirect 100%
Innovation Group Property AG (formally Service Konzept AG) Germany Indirect 100%
InFront Solutions Limited UK Direct 84%
Sureplan Australia (Pty) Limited Australia Direct 100%
Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited South Africa Indirect 68.7%
First Notice Systems Inc. USA Indirect 100%
Sureplan USA Inc USA Indirect 100%
Nobilas Claims & Fleet Solutions Limited UK Direct 100%
National Service Network Limited UK Direct 100% 
Property
DIMO Computing Limited UK Direct 100%
Associates – Outsourcing
Cell captive within Guardrisk Insurance Company Limited ** South Africa Indirect 100%
* The Directors have concluded that the Group exercises a dominant inﬂuence over this company as it is able to control its operating and
ﬁnancial decisions through its position on the Board. 
** The Directors have concluded that the Group exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the cell captive but is unable to exercise control.
5. DEBTORS
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 23,298 31,523
Other debtors 514 1,323
23,812 32,846
Included within Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings is £13,408,000 (2007: £4,049,000) which is interest bearing at rates varying between
7 – 10.5% (2007: 7 – 10.5%). All amounts due are unsecured. 
£23,298,000 (2007: £31,523,000) are repayable on demand but are not expected to be called for repayment within one year and so are classiﬁed
as due after more than one year .
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 97 98
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank loans 7,360 1,442
Accruals 76 48
Other creditors 2,857 565
10,293 2,055
7. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER ONE YEAR
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank loans 6,225 2,885
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 62,017 —
68,242 2,885
During the year the bank loan for the acquisition of Sureplan International (as noted below) and loans within other subsidiary undertakings
were reﬁnanced and consolidated into the following two loans.
A loan of £7,885,000 secured against the Groups two freehold premises and the assets and liabilities of material subsidiaries of the Group.
This loan is repayable according to a standard quarterly repayment schedule ending on 30 September 2013. The loan bears interest at 1.5%
above LIBOR and is paid on a quarterly basis. 
A revolving credit facility of £5,700,000 secured against the assets and liabilities of material subsidiaries of the Group. The loan is repayable
on demand and bears interest at 1.35% above LIBOR, which is paid on a quarterly basis.
At the 30 September 2007 the bank loan relates to the acquisition of Sureplan International (Pty) Limited. The loan was initially taken out on
25 October 2006 when the initial 51% stake was acquired and was subsequently extended on 29 August 2007 on purchase of the remaining
49%. The loan was repayable on a quarterly basis. Interest was charged based on a rate that was 1.625% above LIBOR. 
8. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
NI on share options
£’000
Balance at 1 October 2007 486
Released in the year (303)
Balance at 30 September 2008 183
The share option provision reﬂects the Directors’ estimate of the employer’s national insurance and other similar tax liabilities arising on
outstanding share options. This provision is expected to be utilised over the coming 24 month period. There are no signiﬁcant assumptions
included in calculating this provision and the amounts provided are known with reasonable certainty.
This is matched by an amount recoverable from the relevant employees which is included within other debtors. 
The Company had no unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date (2007: £nil).
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 98 99
9. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Authorised share capital
1,000,000,000 (2007: 1,000,000,000) ordinary shares of 2 pence each 20,000 20,000
2008 2007
No. £’000 No. £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 2 pence each 650,018,142 13,000 643,837,477 12,877
The following share issues took place during the year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
9 January 2008 Exercise of options 195,883 0.122 23,898
7 April 2008 Sureplan deferred consideration 5,872,849 0.3013 1,769,196
28 July 2008 Exercise of options 111,933 0.122 13,655
The following share issues took place during the previous ﬁnancial year .
Date of issue Description No. of shares Price Consideration
££
14 December 2006 Rights Issue – rights exercised 171,335,263 0.210 35,980,405
18 December 2006 Rights Issue – rump shares exercised 9,265,209 0.280 2,594,259
15 January 2007 Exercise of options 559,665 0.122 68,279
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 111,933 0.122 13,656
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 839,498 0.122 102,419
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 37,311 0.122 4,552
18 January 2007 Exercise of options 1,119,331 0.125 139,916
06 February 2007 Exercise of options 449,286 0.247 110,974
06 February 2007 Exercise of options 1,678,996 0.122 204,838
08 February 2007 Exercise of options 65,293 0.122 7,966
20 February 2007 Exercise of options 503,699 0.065 32,740
04 April 2007 Conversant Data Limited consideration 4,454,422 0.328 1,461,051
04 April 2007 Conversant Poland consideration 609,757 0.328 200,000
31 May 2007 Exercise of options 1,119,331 0.122 136,558
31 May 2007 Exercise of options 186,555 0.125 23,319
10. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
The number of shares subject to options (including those granted to Executive Directors), the date on which they were granted and the periods
in which they may be exercised are given below:
Unapproved Company Share Option Scheme
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2008 2007
No. No.
24 May 2000 £2.05 a Between 2 and 10 years 766,736 856,281
31 May 2000 £2.05 a Between 2 and 10 years 145,512 145,512
26 June 2000 £2.89 a Between 2 and 10 years 22,386 22,386
10 August 2000 £4.15 a Between 2 and 10 years 421,420 446,045
1,356,054 1,470,224
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 99 100
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
10. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Global Share Option and Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Exercise period from date of grant 2008 2007
No. No.
15 June 2001 £0.02 a Between 2 and 10 years 7,528 8,466
16 July 2001 £2.65 a Between 2 and 10 years 559,665 559,665
19 October 2001 £2.20 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,686,635 2,503,178
18 August 2003 £0.122 a Between 2 and 10 years 5,736,705 5,941,914
18 August 2003 £0.122 a Between 3 and 10 years 2,910,124 3,012,729
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 2 and 10 years 1,181,364 1,287,694
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 3 and 10 years 590,682 643,847
16 March 2004 £0.319 a Between 4 and 10 years 590,682 643,847
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 2 and 10 years 1,007,397 1,044,708
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 3 and 10 years 1,007,398 1,044,709
7 September 2004 £0.247 b Between 4 and 10 years 1,007,398 1,044,709
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 3 and 10 years 149,243 186,555
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 4 and 10 years 149,244 186,555
31 March 2005 £0.409 b Between 5 and 10 years 149,244 186,554
16,733,309 18,295,130
Performance Share Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2008 2007
No. No.
19 August 2005 £0.00 c 1 November 2008 786,239 4,236,671
4 August 2008 £0.00 c 4 August 2011 8,650,000 —
Global Management Incentive Plan
Date of grant Exercise price Note Release date 2008 2007
No. No.
Performance awards
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2010 3,000,000 3,000,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2011 1,500,000 1,500,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2012 1,500,000 1,500,000
1 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2010 500,000 —
1 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2011 250,000 —
1 December 2007 £0.00 d 15 March 2012 250,000 —
7,000,000 6,000,000
Restricted stock awards
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2009 5,350,000 5,350,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2010 2,675,000 2,675,000
15 March 2007 £0.00 d 22 December 2011 2,675,000 2,675,000
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2009 1,500,000 —
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2010 750,000 —
15 March 2008 £0.00 d 22 December 2011 750,000 —
13,700,000 10,700,000
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 100 101
10. EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES continued
Performance conditions
a These options had no performance conditions attached.
b The awards will vest and become exercisable between the dates given above if Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth, adjusted for goodwill
amortisation and any adjustments required in respect of exceptional gains or charges that may arise (including for example the impact
of IFRS on the Group’s future results) as made at the discretion of the remuneration committee, exceeds the Retail Price Index (“RPI”)
plus 3% per annum. The base EPS being that for the year ended 30 September 2004. Future options issued will vest based on EPS
growth plus 10%.
c The awards will vest subject to meeting the following two performance conditions. Vesting of up to 50 per cent. of the award is based upon
the Group’s Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") relative to the TSR of a comparator group of other companies comprising the software and
computer services and the support services sector of the FTSE, over a three year performance period ending 30 September 2007. If the
Group’s TSR growth ranks below the 50th percentile over the three year period 0 per cent. of the award will vest. At the 50th percentile 15
per cent. will vest and at 75 per cent. or above, 50 per cent. will vest. Between the 50th and 75th percentile vesting will occur on a straight
line basis. Vesting of the remaining 50 per cent. of the award will be subject to the growth of the Group’s EPS. 15 per cent. of an award will
vest for total EPS growth of 12 percent above RPI over the performance period, with 50 per cent. of an award vesting for total EPS growth
of 45 per cent. or more above RPI over the performance period. Between these points, vesting will occur on a straight line basis.
d Performance conditions on all awards are measured over a three year period commencing 1 October 2006. The performance awards vest
50% in March 2010, 25% in March 2011 and 25% in March 2012 subject to meeting earnings per share (“EPS”) growth targets. No awards
will vest until EPS growth is RPI+ 21%. One third of the awards will vest on achieving an EPS growth of RPI+ 60% with the remaining two
thirds vesting on achieving EPS growth of RPI +100%. Vesting takes place on a straight line basis between these amounts. In addition to
the EPS growth conditions, vesting will also be contingent on the satisfaction of a total shareholder return underpin which requires the
Company total shareholder return to be at least equal to the median of that of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the
performance period (although the Remuneration Committee may determine it inappropriate to apply the underpinning condition in
exceptional circumstances). The restricted stock awards vest 50% in December 2009, 25% in December 2010 and 25% in December 2011
subject to meeting EPS growth targets. No awards will vest unless the EPS growth over the three year period to 30 September 2009 is
RPI+ 12%. On achieving this EPS growth awards vest in full.
The number of share options available to relevant employees has increased due to the dilution of options caused by the rights issue held
during the year . 
11. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY
Share premium Merger Proﬁt and
account reserve loss account
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2007 36,034 2,121 110,976
Loss for the year — — (21,534)
Dividends — — (2,907)
Charge arising in respect of share options granted to employees of subsidiary companies — — 1,855
Shares issued 1,683 — —
At 30 September 2008 37,717 2,121 88,390
The proﬁt and loss account reserve includes £6,205,000 (2007: £4,350,000) of unrecognised gains relating to the share option charge arising
in respect of share options granted to employees of subsidiary companies.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 101 102
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
12. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 not to disclose such transactions as it is
prepares consolidated ﬁnancial statements which are publicly available. 
13. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
At 30 September 2008 there was no capital expenditure (2007: £nil) contracted for and not provided in the Company ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has also guaranteed a loan to Barclays Bank plc as discussed in note 16. There are no other contingent liabilities in relation to
the Company (2007: £nil). 
14. STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION
There are no employees of the Company (2007: nil).
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed on page 26 of the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The Company paid £9,000 (2007: £8,000) to its auditors in respect of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed in the individual accounts of The Innovation Group
plc because Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
15. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT
There are no post balance sheet events at 30 September 2008.
16. FINANCIAL GUARANTEE
The Company has guaranteed a loan to Barclays Bank plc to the value of £8.8m. This loan was taken out in May 2007 by a fellow subsidiary
as part of the South African restructuring for the Black Economic Empowerment transaction as detailed in notes 24 and 33 to the Group Financial
Statements. The Company has guaranteed to honour the loan to the extent it is not repayable from proﬁts generated in South Africa.
The guarantee is recorded at a fair value of £nil. The fair value is calculated based on an assessment of both the likelihood the guarantee would
be called upon and the expected cash ﬂows which would arise. On arriving at the fair value future forecasts for the South African business
have been reviewed to ensure surplus proﬁts and cash are available to service the loan. Management forecasts are available until 2010 after
which an annual growth assumption of 3% has been applied. Sensitivity has been applied to the current forecasts which leave proﬁts unchanged
from the 2007 level. In this sensitised case the South African business continues to generate sufﬁcient proﬁts and cash to meet future
repayment obligations.
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 102 103
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Note IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
Proﬁt and loss account
Revenue £’000 139,859 110,446 79,651 60,916 58,051
Adjusted EBITDA a £’000 13,316 17,225 12,018 4,734 9,783
Adjusted proﬁt b £’000 10,065 16,052 10,947 3,566 7,525
(Loss)/proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation £’000 (3,783) 10,401 8,466 1,914 (7,349)
Dividends £’000 2,907 ————
Earnings/(loss) per share c
— Basic p (1.06) 1.17 1.28 0.07 (1.77)
— Adjusted p 0.52 1.93 1.64 0.40 1.33
Dividend per share p 0.45 ————
Balance sheet
Non-current assets/Fixed assets £’000 115,960 103,146 53,907 38,689 35,268
Other assets less liabilities £’000 (35,341) (24,934) (14,913) (13,603) (8,447)
Net funds/(debt) £’000 10,697 16,884 8,002 13,923 9,408
Total equity/Net assets £’000 91,316 95,096 46,996 39,009 36,229
Operating cash ﬂow £’000 12,124 15,190 9,978 7,237 6,611
Key ratios
Adjusted EBITDA margin d % 9.5 15.6 15.1 7.7 16.9
Adjusted proﬁt margin e % 7.2 14.5 13.7 5.9 13.0
Employees (average) No. 2,233 1,971 1,360 1,103 983
Notes
a Adjusted EBITDA is operating proﬁt/(loss) before amortisation, impairment of assets, depreciation, share based payments, utilisation
of pre-acquisition brought forward tax losses and exceptional items.
b Adjusted proﬁt is proﬁt/(loss) before tax, after adding back amortisation, impairment of assets, share based payments, utilisation of pre-
acquisition brought forward tax losses and exceptional items.
c Earnings/(loss) per share has been adjusted in all years in respect of the shares issued by way of rights issue in December 2006. 
2001 and 2002 have been adjusted further to reﬂect the shares issued by way of rights issue in March 2003.
d EBITDA margin is adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
e Adjusted proﬁt margin is adjusted proﬁt as a percentage of revenue.
FIVE YEAR REVIEW
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 103 104
DIRECTORS
Geoff Squire OBE
(Chairman)
Hassan Sadiq
(Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)
Jane Hall
(Acting Group Finance Director)
Chris Banks (Non-Executive)
David Thorpe (Non-Executive)
Kurt Lauk (Non-Executive)
James Morley (Non-Executive)
COMPANY SECRETARY
Jane Hall
COMPANY NUMBER
3256771
REGISTERED OFFICE
Yarmouth House
1300 Parkway
Solent Business Park
Whiteley 
Hampshire PO15 7AE
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young LLP
Apex Plaza
Reading RG1 1YE
BANKERS
The Royal Bank of Scotland
Corporate Banking
Solent Corporate Centre
Notebeme House
84 High Street
Southampton SO14 2NT
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
SOLICITORS
Dorsey & Whitney
21 Wilson Street 
London EC2M 2TD
REGISTRARS
Capita IRG plc
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersﬁeld
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA
OFFICERS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS
GLOBAL OPERATIONS
CANADA
Toronto
USA Boston
UK Whiteley
SPAIN
Barcelona
FRANCE
Paris
SOUTHAFRICA
Johannesburg
PAKISTAN
Lahore
JAPAN
Tokyo
AUSTRALIA
Sydney
AUSTRALIA
Melbourne
NETHERLANDS
Amsterdam
BELGIUM
Brussels
GERMANY
Stuttgart
USA Farmington
USA Chicago
USA Atlanta
USA
Kansas City
104
TIG FINANCIALS  08  27/1/09  12:55  Page 104 GLOBAL DIRECTORY
UNITED KINGDOM
Innovation Group plc: 
Head Office
Yarmouth House
1300 Parkway
Solent Business Park
Whiteley
Hampshire
PO15 7AE
T: +44 (0) 1489 898 300
F: +44 (0) 1489 579 181
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Orpington
Midas House
2 Knoll Rise
Orpington
Kent
BR6 0NL
T: +44 (0) 1689 832 111
F: +44 (0) 1689 875 185
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Whyteleafe
Bourne House
475 Godstone Road
Whyteleafe
Surrey
CR3 0BL
T: +44 (0) 0845 367 0511
F: +44 (0) 1883 621 105
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Leicester
1a Salisbury Road
Leicester
LE1 7QR
T: +44 (0) 0844 847 0071
F: +44 (0) 116 255 5800
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Leeds
E2a Josephs Well
Hanover Walk
Leeds
LS3 1AB
T: +44 (0) 0845 249 6116
F: +44 (0) 0845 249 6117
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – 
Newport Pagnell
Network House
North Crawley Road
Newport Pagnell
Bucks
MK16 9TG
T: +44 (0) 870 242 1236
F: +44 (0) 870 240 5131
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Cheltenham
Eagle Tower
Montpellier Drive
Cheltenham
Gloucestershire
GL50 1TA
T: +44 (0) 1242 772 222
F: +44 (0) 1242 772 223
E: info@uk.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – 
Henley-On-Thames
Nobilas House
Newtown Road
Henley-On-Thames
Oxfordshire RG9 1HG
T: +44 (0) 1491 63 70 00
F: +44 (0) 1491 63 55 00
E: nobilasuk@nobilas.com
AUSTRALIA
Innovation Group (Australia) 
Pty Ltd – Melbourne: Head Office
Level 3
1 Bowen Crescent
Melbourne 
Victoria 3004
T: +61 (0) 3 9864 1800
F: +61 (0) 3 9864 1801
E: info@au.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group 
(Australia) Pty Ltd – Sydney
Suite 5
Level 12
37 Bligh Street
Sydney
NSW 2000
T: +61 (0) 2 8257 3391
F: +61 (0) 2 8233 6169
E: info@au.innovation-group.com
BELGUIM
Innovation Group – Belgium
Emmanuellaan 1
1830 Machelen
Belgium
T: +32 (0)2 255 88 77
F: +32 (0)2 255 88 79
E: info@nobilas.com
CANADA
Innovation Group – Canada
120 East Beaver Creek Road
Suite 101
Richmond Hill
Ontario
L4B 4V1
T: +1 (905)-771-5110
F: +1 (905)-771-0232
E: info@ca.innovation-group.com
FRANCE
Nobilas France SAS – France 
9 Avenue des Andes
91978 Les Ulis Courtaboeuf
France
T: +33 (0)1 64 86 42 3277
F: +33 (0)1 69 07 85 99
E: infoFR@nobilas.com
GERMANY
Innovation Group Holdings –
Head Office 
Max-Eyth-Str. 42
71088
Holzgerlingen
T: +49 (7031) 8170 3000
F: +49 (7031) 8170 3100
E: info@de.innovation-group.com 
Innovation Group Motor – Stuttgart
Rotebühlstrasse 121
70178
Stuttgart
T: +49 (0) 711 664 90 0
F: +49 (0) 711 664 90 35
E: info@de.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group Property – Köln
Else-Lang-Str. 1
50858 Köln
T: +49 (0) 221 719 90 20
F: +49 (0) 221 719 90 26 8
E: info@de.innovation-group.com
Innovation Nobilas 
Claims & Fleet Services
Borsigallee 19
60388 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
T: +49 (0)69 42 60 70
F: +49 (0)69 42 60 75 00
E: infoDE@nobilas.com
JAPAN
Innovation Group (Japan) Pty Ltd – 
Tokyo: Head Office
Izumi Shiba Koen Bldg. 
6F, 1-6-8 Shiba Koen
Minato-ku 
105-0011
T: +81 3 6402 1680
F: +81 3 6402 1681
E: info@jp.innovation-group.com
NETHERLANDS
Innovation Group – 
The Netherlands
Taurusavenue 3-5
2132 LS Hoofddorp
The Netherlands
T: +31 (0)23 7990 200 
F: +31 (0)23 7990 211
E: infoNL@nobilas.com
PAKISTAN
Extended Innovation: Head Office
NetSol It Village
NetSol Avenue
Ghazi Road Lahore
Cantt 54792
Pakistan
Contact at: 
info@extendedinnovation.com
T: +92 (0) 42 570 1027
F: +92 (0) 42 572 6740
E: info@extendedinnovation.com
SOUTH AFRICA
Innovation Group (Pty) Ltd –
Johannesburg: Head Office
Physical Address:
Fourways Office Park 
Building 7 
Cnr Roos & Fourways Boulevard 
Fourways 
2055
Postal Address:
Private Bag x99, Bryanston, 2021 
T: +27 (0) 11 790 5200 
F: +27 (0) 11 790 5299 
E: info@za.innovation-group.com
SPAIN
Nobilas Iberica S.L. – Spain
C/ de la Selva 10 PB1
Edificio Inblau A
08820 El Prat de Llobregat
Barcelona
T: +34 (0)93 378 27 00
F: +34 (0)93 370 65 19
E: InfoES@nobilas.com
UNITED STATES
Innovation Group – Newton:
Head Office
95 Wells Avenue
Suite 320
Newton
MA 02459
T: +1 617.886.2400 
F: +1 617.886.2403
E: info@us.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Atlanta
5555 Spalding Drive
Norcross
GA 30092
T: +1 (770) 670 2740
F: +1 (888) 830 4678
E: info@us.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Chicago
5350 Keystone Court
Rolling Meadows
IL 60008
T: +1 (888) 840 4678
F: +1 (888) 830 4678
E: info@us.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Farmington
76 Batterson Park Road
1st Floor
Farmington
CT 06032
T: +1.860.674.2900
F: +1.860.674.1059
E: info@us.innovation-group.com
Innovation Group – Kansas City
7500 College Boulevard
Suite 925
Overland Park
KS 66210
T: +1 (913) 888 4100
F: +1 (913) 562 3103
E: info@us.innovation-group.com
TIG Cover 2008  27/1/09  19:12  Page 4 The Innovation Group plc • 1300 Parkway • Solent Business Park • Whiteley • Hampshire • England • PO15 7AE
Tel: +44 (0)1489 898300 • Fax: +44 (0)1489 579181 • Web: www.innovation-group.com • E-mail: info@uk.innovation-group.com
www.innovation-group.com
TIG Cover 2008  27/1/09  14:42  Page 1
