 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2006
INTEC TELECOM 
SYSTEMS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT  
2006 • Key new customer wins in the US, UK, China, India, 
Holland, Russia, Pakistan, New Zealand and Brazil.
• New solutions brought to market for wireless/MVNO, 
IMS and revenue management applications.
• Offshore delivery capability developing well, with first 
major billing projects in production.
• Expansion of US outsourcing capability with acquisition 
of EUR Systems.
• Intec now has 641 installations at 386 companies.  
(FY 2005: 599 installations at 363 companies.)
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
f INANCIAL OVERVIEW
   2006  2005 
  Note £000 £000
Revenue  112,320 116,228
(Loss)/profit before tax  (5,301) 11,076
Operating (loss)/profit  (6,018) 10,235
EBITDA before exceptionals (i) 3,626 16,325
Cash generated from operations  14,072 1,232
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share  (2.06)p 3.01p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (ii) (2.06)p 2.97p
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items (ii) (0.86)p 3.39p
Notes to the financial highlights  £000 £000
(i)    (Loss)/profit before tax  (5,301) 11,076
  Net finance income  (717) (841)
 Operating (loss)/profit  (6,018) 10,235
 Exceptional expenses  3,738 1,132
 Amortisation of intangible assets  2,647 1,268
 Depreciation  3,259 3,690
 EBITDA before exceptional items  3,626 16,325
 
(ii)  Basic (loss)/earnings per share before exceptional items 
    calculation:   
  (Loss)/profit after tax  (6,252) 9,052
 Exceptional items  3,738 1,132
 Earnings after tax – before exceptional items  (2,514) 10,184
SHAREHOLDER INf ORMATION
FInAncIAl cAlEnDAr (SuBjEcT To chAngE)
Annual Report mailed Financial half-year end 2007 Interim results 2007 
March 2007 31 March 2007 May 2007
Financial year end 2007 2007 preliminary results
30 September 2007 November 2007
These provisional announcement dates will be supplemented by trading updates and other announcements as required.  
Please register for the alert service on the Intec website to be kept up-to-date in real time.
rEgISTrAr DETAIlS
Please notify the Registrar promptly of any changes, such as new address, name change, lost share certificate, etc.
Capita Registrars
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: +44 (0)870 162 3100, Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com, Web: www.capitaregistrars.com
Please visit the Capita website to find comprehensive details on making changes to information on the register as well as  
other frequently asked questions. Capita also provides a low cost on-line and telephone share dealing facility for shareholders.  
For more details, visit www.capitadeal.com or telephone +44 (0)870 458 4577.
rEcEIpT oF DuplIcATE mATErIAl
There are several reasons why you might get more than one copy of material from Intec.
If you bought shares on separate occasions, you might have different entries on the register (e.g. John Smith and John James Smith).  
A review of material received will indicate if this is the case. The registrar is not permitted to amalgamate accounts without written  
authority. Please contact the registrar directly.
Alternatively, the same information might be sent from different sources. For example, did you join the Alert Service on Intec’s website prior 
to becoming a shareholder? If so, you will need to revisit the website to amend your alert options.
AnAlySIS oF ShArEholDIngS AT 30 SEpTEmBEr 2006
Number Percentage
1   General Atlantic Partners       25.09
11  Other shareholders with greater than 2%       35.47
12  Other shareholders with greater than 1%       16.81
24  All shareholders with greater than 1%       77.37
3   Directors and related       1.65
27  Major shareholders and directors       79.02
76  Other institutions and nominee account managers with over 30,000 shares      17.10
   Individuals and unidentified       3.88
  All shareholders       100.00
ShArE prIcE
During the year ended 30 September 2006, the range of mid market prices of Intec Telecom Systems ordinary shares was as follows:
Price on 30 September 2006: 40.75p
Lowest price during the year: 30.5p
Highest price during the year: 73.5p
Average closing price during the year: 56.4p
Number of shares in issue on 30 September 2006: 304,339,593
See the director’s remuneration report on page 27 for performance graphs. 01 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC
WELCOME  
TO INTEC
Introduction
IFC  Operational highlights
IFC  Financial overview
01 Corporate statement
About Intec
02  A busy year
Review and outlook
04  Chairman’s statement
06   Chief executive officer’s statement  
and review
10 Enhanced business review
14  Chief financial officer’s review
A strong team
18  Board of directors
Accountability
20  Corporate governance
25  Directors’ remuneration report
30  Directors’ report
32  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
33  Independent auditors’ report – Group 
67 Independent auditors’ report – Company 
Financial statements
34  Consolidated income statement
34   Consolidated statement of total  
recognised income and expenses
35  Consolidated balance sheet
36  Consolidated cash flow statement
37  Notes to the accounts
68 Company balance sheet
69 Notes to the Company balance sheet
Information for shareholders
72  Trading record
73  Officers and professional advisers
74  Glossary
76  Contact information
IBC  Shareholder information
Intec will be ten years old in 2007 , and  
a public company listed in London for  
the last seven years. Although we have 
become one of the principal global  
suppliers of Business and Operations 
Support Systems (BSS/OSS), our mission  
has not changed. We aim to help our 
customers, who include over 70 of  
the world’s top 100 communications 
companies, to build stronger, more 
profitable revenue streams and to help  
them better serve their customers.
To support this mission we have:
• One of the industry’s widest ranges of carrier-grade  
BSS/OSS products, solutions and services.
• Over 1700 employees working with customers  
from offices in 25 countries.
• A global support and services capability with  
over 1000 professional staff.
• Active partnerships with the world’s leading  
technology companies.
• Substantial investment in our business to  
create ongoing success.
For more information on Intec, please visit: 
www.intecbilling.com INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 02
A BUSY 
YEAR
OCTOBER
Intec launched a new, pre-integrated 
solution addressing the needs of operators 
launching new IP-based services such as IPTV . 
The solution addresses key service provider 
challenges surrounding customer interaction 
and the management and charging of next-
generation services. Two new customer wins 
started the year, at Cox Communications in 
the US, and CTBC in Brazil. 
Intec’s success in growing into one of the 
telecom industry’s most prominent BSS/OSS 
suppliers was recognised as Intec listed  
13th amongst the fastest growing European 
companies. Intec was also included in the 
Software 500, a listing of the world’s foremost 
software suppliers by Software Magazine. 
Intec was listed at number 188 based on 
its revenue performance.
Intec opened a Moscow office to serve 
both Russia and the wider CIS. This local 
presence was a response to Intec’s high-
profile customer base in the region, and to 
the considerable growth potential of the 
area. Intec also signed a contract with Verizon 
Dominicana, Verizon’s Dominican Republic 
subsidiary, for Intec Automated Reconciliation.
NOvEMBER dECEMBER
APRIL
Intec announced that its Asia Pacific operation 
had secured two key contract wins, both 
with new, high-profile customers, that have 
substantially enhanced Intec’s visibility in the 
countries and regions concerned. The first 
of Intec’s wins, with HT Telecom in Vietnam, 
was for a comprehensive set of applications, 
including Intec Convergent Billing, Intec 
Interconnect, Intec Mediation, Intec Activation 
and Intec Charging & Rating components. The 
second win was for Intec Interconnect v7, the 
latest version of Intec’s best-selling wholesale 
billing and settlements solution. 
Intec announced the availability of the 
new Intec Centralised Error Management 
System (Intec CEMS). Using Intec CEMS, 
service providers can cut revenue losses by 
dramatically reducing error volumes, lowering 
the costs of managing errors, and recovering 
revenue from unbilled usage and service 
order errors. The product subsequently 
won the TeleStrategies 2006 Billing & OSS 
World Excellence Awards for Achievement in 
Innovation. Major contracts were announced 
with KPN and TelstraClear.
Commitment to excellence over the past  
year earned Intec an ‘outstanding supplier  
to AT&T award’. Intec received one of  
49 supplier recognition awards for its work 
in helping AT&T deliver outstanding service 
to its customers during the past year. Intec 
was recognised for its contributions in the 
Teamwork category. Intec also teamed up 
with Huawei to implement the Intec 
Mediation solution for Asia Pacific Broadband 
Wireless, a leading CDMA 2000 operator 
in Taiwan.
MAY ju NE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 03
j ANuARY
Intec launched its new mobile charging, 
customer management and revenue 
management solution, The Intec Mobile 
Business Solution, a single, scalable OSS/BSS 
platform, capable of evolving from simple 
voice and messaging services through to fully 
converged, circuit-switched and IP-based 
next-generation mobile services. Intec also 
launched its Wholesale Business Management 
Solution covering the complete span of 
functionality from Trading and Routing, 
Wholesale Billing & Settlement, to Pre-
processing and Mediation. 
Intec and Cisco announced they had 
successfully completed their first joint 
implementation with Amazonia Celular & 
Telemig Celular, two wireless operators with 
joint operations in Brazil, with a broad content 
services offering. Important contracts were 
announced with VimpelCom in Russia for 
Intec Trading and Routing, and Mobilink in 
Pakistan, for Intec Interconnect v7 and Intec 
Automated Reconciliation.
Reliance Infocomm, the fastest growing 
mobile operator in India, with over 16 million 
customers, affirmed the importance of its 
partnership with Intec, based on its successful 
use of Intec’s retail billing, interconnect 
billing and convergent mediation systems. 
The scalability and performance of Intec’s 
technology has allowed Reliance Infocomm 
to grow at very high rates within the fast-
developing Indian market. Analysts Frost & 
Sullivan announced the selection of Intec as 
the recipient of its 2006 Growth Strategy 
Leadership Award in the communications 
billing vendor market.
FEBRuARY MARCh
ju LY
Intec signed Mahangar Telephone Nigam Ltd 
(MTNL), a full service telecoms provider and 
one of the largest internet service providers 
in India, to a multi-million dollar deal to 
supply its convergent billing system. Intec 
Convergent Billing will form a key part of 
the carrier’s convergence strategy for rapid 
penetration and growth via innovative, next 
generation communications services in India. 
MTNL is a government owned incumbent 
communications provider, with a subscriber 
base of over 5 million in India, one of the 
world’s fastest growing telecoms markets.
In a very exciting development, the UK’s 
largest insurer, Norwich Union, part of the 
Aviva group, contracted Intec to provide the 
billing technology for its Pay As You Drive 
Insurance™, using Intec Convergent Billing to 
generate itemised monthly bills. The project 
underlines the flexibility of Intec’s technology, 
as the process of rating and charging for 
vehicle usage is inherently similar to the 
billing processes used in telecoms. It will allow 
Norwich Union to deliver sophisticated bills to 
customers with an accurate record of charges 
and how they are incurred.
Intec and IBM completed a performance 
benchmark of Intec Convergent Billing v6 on 
IBM System p5 servers, demonstrating the 
capability to handle a sustained throughput 
equivalent to the needs of a customer 
base of 60 million pre-paid subscribers. 
The benchmark was based on a current 
customer implementation and reflected 
realistic operating conditions and data, 
including pre and post-paid, fixed, wireless, 
and next-generation services. Intec also 
partnered with EMC and SenSage to provide 
a comprehensive, cost effective solution 
to answer the mandates of the EU Data 
Retention Directive.
Augu ST SEPTEMBER
www. INTECBILLINg.COM INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 04
2006 has been a year of disappointing 
financial performance for Intec. After  
a start to the year which met our 
expectations, with revenues improved over 
the first half of 2005, we failed to generate 
the anticipated level of revenues in the 
second half. The shortfall in 2006 can,  
in the main, be attributed to the adverse 
commercial effects resulting from 
consolidation in the US telecommunications 
market, exacerbated by delays in closing 
some forecast new business.
In spite of the poor financial performance, 
in 2006 Intec consolidated its position as  
a leader in the Business and Operations 
Support Systems (BSS/OSS) market where it 
operates. We strengthened the business by 
acquiring 23 new customers; bringing new 
expertise into the management team; 
enhancing and expanding our product 
portfolio to better serve customers; and 
developing our US business with the 
acquisition of EUR Systems. This year  
we also welcomed a new non-executive 
“Our market, primarily telecoms, remains competitive 
with several strong players challenging for business. 
But Intec has a strong offering, a good reputation, 
and a commitment to ongoing success. Our challenge 
is to ensure we maximise our opportunities in 2007, 
through balanced investment in products, delivery 
capability, marketing and sales, while significantly 
improving our fundamental financial performance.”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
IMPROVING 
PERFORMANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 05
Director, Gordon Stuart, to the Board. 
As Finance Director of Xansa PLC, a 
technology and business services 
company, Gordon brings valuable insight 
and expertise to Intec, particularly in his 
role as chair of the Audit Committee.
As carriers seek to improve business 
performance and market share through 
innovation, diversification of offering and 
improved competitiveness, two key factors 
are driving the market – the move towards  
a converged environment, where operators 
offer multiple, complex services to their 
customers, and the ongoing consolidation 
among major players. While Intec has 
suffered in 2006 from the effects of 
consolidation among key customers and 
prospects, we see the changes taking place 
as ultimately beneficial, as Intec’s converged, 
world-class product and services offering 
has many benefits for operators looking to 
innovate and to improve performance. 
The Company has already executed a 
cost reduction programme. Although we 
have incurred an exceptional charge of 
£4.0 million in the current year, we expect 
it to achieve full payback within the first six 
months of FY 2007, with ongoing benefits 
thereafter. In addition, we have launched 
a broad-based review of the business 
aimed at optimising our business model 
and processes. The Board and management 
team remains focused on identifying 
additional operational improvements 
and cost saving measures that will 
deliver real financial benefits and thus 
improved profitability. 
SuMMARY
Our market, primarily telecoms, remains 
competitive with several strong players 
challenging for business. But Intec has a 
strong offering, a good reputation, and a 
commitment to ongoing success. Our 
challenge is to ensure we maximise our 
opportunities in 2007, through balanced 
investment in products, delivery capability, 
marketing and sales, while significantly 
improving our fundamental financial 
performance. We have taken steps to 
improve the performance of the business 
and I can say with certainty that the Board 
and the Intec leadership team are fully 
focused on delivering improved results 
which should drive increasing shareholder 
value in 2007.
jO hN hugh ES
Chairman
12 December 2006
1 North Americ A & cANA d A – £33.3m 2 Asi A p Acific – £18.9m 3 c Aribbe AN & l Ati N Americ A – £9.5m 4 europe middle e Ast & Afric A – £50.6m 641
customer i Nst All Atio Ns 
to d Ate REg IONAL REv ENuE BREAKdOw N
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
1
4
3
2 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 06
“The foundations of Intec are strong and our ability  
to generate profitable new business in the future 
remains. Our recent contract wins and strong  
pipeline demonstrate the potential of the business. 
This, combined with the steps we have taken to 
reduce our cost base and improve our efficiency, 
gives us confidence that we will quickly return to 
higher profitability.”
A YEAR OF 
CONSOLIDATION
OvERvIEw
This has been a challenging year for Intec,  
with a financial performance that has not met 
expectations. After a promising first half, in 
which we recorded good progress over FY 
2005, the second half proved to be much more 
difficult. Entering the second half with a solid 
pipeline of new business opportunities, we 
were hit by a succession of events that 
ultimately made it impossible for us to achieve 
our financial goals for the full year. Whilst we 
took rapid action to reduce costs, including an 
acceleration of ongoing plans to move towards 
a lower cost, offshore delivery model, the 
timing of these events made it inevitable that 
the revenue shortfall would seriously impact 
earnings for the year. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S 
STATEMENT AND REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 07
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
The biggest single cause of the difficulties 
we experienced was consolidation among 
major operators. This was most apparent  
in North America, where a number of our 
largest customers and business prospects 
are engaged in such transactions. The same 
issue is also apparent in other regions, 
including Europe, albeit with less direct 
impact on our business. The net effect  
has been to both delay some important 
purchasing decisions and project milestones, 
as well as to eliminate some opportunities 
that may be available to us. One specific 
consequence of this consolidation was the 
delay in the rollout of a major project for one 
of our largest US customers. This has led to 
uncertainty over the timing of payments that 
Intec had been expecting to receive from this 
customer. As a result we have decided, as of 
30 September 2006, not to recognise £5.5m 
of license revenue associated with this 
contract which had been recognised prior to 
the announcement of this consolidation. As  
a result, revenue for the year was £112.3 
million, or a decline of 3% on FY 2005. 
EBITDA before exceptional items was 
inevitably severely affected, at £3.6 million 
against £16.3 million in FY 2005. The 
reduction in revenue was exclusively in 
licence business, with revenue from both 
professional services and recurring revenues 
increasing slightly on FY 2005.
Aside from these issues, which have 
primarily affected larger billing projects, our 
classic business has continued to perform 
well, with an increase in both the number 
and the average value of new contracts for 
several key products as compared with FY 
2005. Market analysis reports from several 
respected commentators have identified our 
continuing leadership across our key market 
segments, and we are now clearly 
recognised globally as a leading supplier  
in the retail billing sector. 
CuSTOMER wINS
Announced customer wins in 2006 include 
China Mobile, Dialog Telekom in Sri Lanka, 
MTNL in India, Asia-Pacific Broadband 
Wireless of Taiwan, KPN in Holland, 
TelstraClear in New Zealand, a major 3G 
operator in Vietnam, VimpelCom in Russia, 
Mobilink in Pakistan, Verizon Dominicana, 
CTBC in Brazil, a major US cable provider 
and TSTT in Trinidad and Tobago. These wins 
drove good growth in both our CALA and 
APAC regions. In addition, Norwich Union 
chose Intec Convergent Billing for its 
innovative ‘Pay As You Drive’ vehicle 
insurance scheme, underlining the flexibility 
of our technology.
Intec’s licensed customer base grew  
during FY 2006 to 641 installations in 386 
companies (FY 2005: 599 installations in  
363 companies on a comparable, pro-forma 
basis). The management team continues to 
seek both organic and acquisition-driven 
growth opportunities.
PROdu CTS
Intec has one of the BSS/OSS industry’s most 
comprehensive product, solution and service 
portfolios. The company works to preserve 
its lead in BSS/OSS by being responsive to 
trends in the market, by ensuring it 
understands customers’ changing needs  
and by maintaining a clear roadmap for  
each product set and a commitment  
to continued investment. 
In FY 2006 we made good progress with 
both existing products and new market 
launches. Both Intec Interconnect and Intec 
Mediation are market leaders in their sector, 
with strong sales momentum for both 
product lines, and many customers choosing 
to transition to the latest versions. New 
products brought to market included Intec 
Centralised Error Management System (Intec 
CEMS), which helps carriers identify and 
eliminate revenue-draining problems in their 
billing processes, and the Intec Mobile 
Business Solution, a pre-integrated billing 
system targeted on smaller or start-up 
wireless operators and MVNOs. We also 
launched the Intec Data Retention Solution  
in partnership with EMC and SenSage, to 
address new EU legislative requirements for 
communications carriers and ISPs to retain 
customer calling data for anti-crime and 
anti-terrorism purposes. 
ACTIONS uNdERTAKEN TO IMPROvE 
PERFORMANCE
Intec expanded rapidly in the years prior to 
FY 2006 through a combination of organic 
and acquisition growth. Despite the 
setbacks experienced in the latter half of  
this year, we remain a growth-oriented 
company with a clear strategic vision to be 
the leader in BSS/OSS product sales. During 
FY 2006 we have undertaken a number of 
strategic initiatives to help us deliver this 
vision, while improving efficiency and 
profitability. We expect these initiatives to 
deliver cost savings in FY 2007 and beyond.
delivery off-shoring – Like many 
companies serving global markets, we are 
pursuing a strategy to reduce our cost base 
through use of lower-cost locations, 
primarily for product delivery (professional 
services) staff. This is a medium-term 
programme, as it takes time to recruit, train 
and bring new staff into fully productive use. 
We now have around 300 staff in our 
Bangalore facility, the majority of whom are 
now active on customer projects. During the 
latter half of the year we accelerated this 
transition programme, and we have reduced 
our staff numbers in our higher cost 
locations accordingly.
Cost reduction – Intec constantly reviews 
its business structure for cost-efficiency  
and effectiveness. In August we initiated a 
comprehensive review of staff levels and 
performance across the business, including  
a program of reductions and some 
reassignments, resulting in a headcount 
reduction of some 140 people as well as 
other savings. Although this has resulted in 
an exceptional cost this year, it will deliver 
substantially greater savings in FY 2007  
and future years. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT AND REVIEW CONTINUED
Our industry is extremely dynamic and it is 
important to ensure that we have offerings 
that are in demand from customers today 
and also able to deliver value over future 
periods by being flexible and scalable to 
meet evolving business requirements and 
increasing performance demands. A good 
illustration of this is our Intec Convergent 
Billing product family. During FY 2006 we 
launched an important new version of this 
product, as well as benchmarking it to 
industry-leading levels of performance.  
The new version, v6.0.1, adds many 
enhancements and new features, the most 
notable of which concerns its abilities in the 
area of ‘revenue management’. Regulatory 
developments in a number of key 
geographies are forcing telecoms operators 
to look more closely at their revenue 
recognition and management policies, to 
ensure compliance with standards and 
legislation such as Sarbanes-Oxley. Our  
new Intec Convergent Billing – Revenue 
Management Edition, launched alongside 
v6.0.1, delivers the capabilities to do this and 
was a critical factor in enabling us to secure 
a recent contract in the financial services 
market in the face of strong competition.
To demonstrate the technical strength of our 
billing product we published a benchmark  
in September, in partnership with IBM, 
demonstrating the capability of Intec 
Convergent Billing to handle a sustained 
throughput equivalent to the needs of a 
customer base of 60 million pre-paid 
subscribers. The benchmark was based on  
a current customer implementation and 
reflected realistic operating conditions and 
data. Projections from tests done at the 
same time showed that upgrading the IBM 
servers with the latest processors will 
provide a 25% improvement in throughput, 
giving a capacity of more than 75 million 
pre-paid subscribers. This is an outstanding 
result, and underlines our capabilities to 
serve the largest customers.
Our confidence in our products is underlined 
by numerous supportive reports from  
the analyst community. 
For example, in mid-2006 we were pleased 
to hear from one leading market analyst, 
Gartner Group, that we are unequivocally 
number one in the mediation market, and 
that we have also steadily grown our 
progress in billing, to be ranked third in  
new licence sales behind much larger 
competitors. We were also pleased to win  
an industry award in the US for product 
excellence for Intec CEMS.
gLOBAL BuSINESS OPERATIONS
The global nature and worldwide reach of 
Intec is clearly demonstrated by the 90% of 
revenues that are generated outside the UK. 
To address our global market place Intec’s 
distribution capability is structured around 
four geographic regions. This ensures that 
account management, sales, services and 
support are close to our customers – a key 
Intec priority. Each of our four regional 
headquarters provides full management, 
financial and technical support capabilities. 
A further 25 sales/support offices 
complement these operations, including 
facilities in Africa, Australia, Canada, China, 
France, Russia and Dubai. Our policy is to 
maintain offices in regions where sales 
opportunities or customer requirements 
justify it, and in FY 2006 we opened new 
facilities in Russia, Dubai and Poland, as well 
as closing some smaller offices in regions 
that were better served from larger facilities.
The Product Operations division – which 
encompasses product development, product 
management and product commercialisation 
– is based in locations in Australia, Denmark, 
South Africa and the US to provide the right 
balance of development cost and technical 
expertise. We continue to review the cost 
and location of development effort to 
ensure it is appropriate to our needs, and 
have made a number of changes aimed at 
greater cost efficiency in 2006.
ACTIONS uNdERTAKEN TO IMPROvE 
PERFORMANCE – CONTINuEd
Investment in unifying and improving 
our infrastructure – Around 18 months 
ago we decided to embark on a three year 
investment programme to standardise our 
ERP, finance and HR systems on a single 
platform. This will enable the business to 
operate with greater efficiency, increased 
operational information and more timely 
decision making. Towards the end of FY 
2006 we have begun to see the benefits of 
this investment as all areas of the business 
have started to use the new systems.
New markets – Intec has begun to  
see success for its billing and mediation 
technology in certain markets outside 
telecoms, most notably financial services. 
We are pursuing a number of such 
opportunities in this and other markets,  
and we will continue to invest cautiously  
to develop business in this area. 
Revised sales operation – As part of our 
restructuring process, in the latter part of 
the year we initiated a review of our sales 
channels and organisation, resulting in 
improvements to our sales and marketing 
processes. These are designed to maximise 
the business opportunities we see, as well  
as ensuring that our commercial resources 
are correctly and efficiently aligned with 
customer needs. We will continue to review 
our sales team performance as we go 
forward to ensure Intec remains ahead of  
its competitors in terms of bid/win ratio.
global business review – During the 
summer we began a process which has 
resulted in a global review of our business 
structure and practices, building on a review 
of our General and Administrative costs 
undertaken earlier in 2006. The primary aim 
of this Board-sponsored review is to ensure 
that the business is optimised to operate 
efficiently, thereby delivering future earnings 
growth and maximising shareholder returns. 
Good cost control, accurate budgeting, 
efficient working practices and examination 
of return-on-investment are continually 
emphasised at all levels of the Company. YEAR END HEADCOUNT NUMBER
1,564
2005
1,700
2006
1,335
2004
646
2003
507
2002
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 09
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
EuR SYSTEMS
We announced in September the completion 
of the acquisition of the operating assets of 
outsourced billing and business process 
outsourcing (BPO) specialist EUR Systems  
for approximately £7.1 million. EUR is being 
integrated with Intec’s existing Carrier 
Access Billing (CABS) and retail billing service 
bureau operations in North America, to offer 
a comprehensive suite of end-user, 
wholesale billing and BPO solutions to the 
North American ILEC, CLEC and IXC market. 
This acquisition allows Intec to increase its 
market share in the access billing space and 
to expand our capabilities as an outsourced 
billing and business process provider. 
 
Since completion we have been working  
on a rapid integration of EUR, as well as 
developing its business pipeline. I am also 
pleased to report that we are signing 
customer contract renewals on a regular 
basis, including two recently completed 
multi-million dollar, multi-year contracts 
with high-profile customers. 
STAFF
At year end, the Intec team numbered 
approximately 1,700 staff at 31 locations  
in 25 countries around the world. Some 
92% of staff are based outside the UK, 
underlining the international nature of the 
Intec business. The integration of around 
200 people from EUR was rapid and without 
disruption to existing activities. Attracting 
and retaining excellent staff is key to the 
success of the business and to this end we 
have strengthened our HR team to ensure 
we have the optimum approach to our staff 
and their experience at Intec. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank Intec staff for 
their continuing support to the business 
throughout a challenging year.
OuTLOOK
The foundations of Intec are strong and our 
ability to generate profitable new business in 
the future remains. Our recent contract wins 
and strong pipeline demonstrate the 
potential of the business. This, combined 
with the steps we have taken to reduce our 
cost base and improve our efficiency, gives 
us confidence that we will quickly return to 
higher profitability. We expect revenues for 
FY 2007, including those generated through 
our acquisition of EUR Systems, to increase 
in low double digit percentage terms over 
our reported FY 2006. The Board, Executive 
team, and staff are fully focused on 
improving financial performance for 2007. 
KEvIN AdAMS
Chief Executive Officer
12 December 2006
386
customers W o N to d Ate INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 10
BuSINESS dESCRIPTION ANd 
PRINCIPAL ACTIvITIES
Intec is a provider of software and 
associated services primarily to the global 
telecommunications market. Our customers 
are typically large, multi-national companies 
such as AT&T, Vodafone, France Telecom, 
Virgin Mobile, Telecom Italia, Deutsche 
Telekom, and MTN, as well as smaller, high 
growth operators focusing on national 
markets. In fact, over 60% of the world’s 
top 100 carriers (by revenue) are Intec 
customers, and that percentage continues 
 to grow. We also have a small, but growing, 
number of customers outside of the 
telecoms industry, who have recognised  
that the technology we have developed for 
telecoms can be usefully applied to their 
own businesses.
Our products are sophisticated software 
systems that are critical to the business 
operations of our customers. These products 
include:
•  Retail billing – to produce telephone bills 
for domestic and business customers
•  Interconnect billing – to produce the bills 
that carriers need to send each other
•  Mediation – the process of collecting 
information from the network to  
enable billing
•  Activation – configuring and turning on 
new services, handsets and tariffs for 
customers
•  Charging and real-time rating – 
calculating the cost of communications 
services and managing payment.
In addition to these we have a number of 
other more technical products, but most are 
still concerned in some way with the delivery 
of communications services and generation 
of revenue from customers or partners. 
Generically these products are referred to in 
our industry as Business and Operations 
Support Systems or BSS/OSS. All of our 
products work together, and it is quite 
common for us to sell more than one 
product to a new customer to solve a 
particular problem, or to sell additional 
products after an initial sale. Once installed 
it is normal for our customers to keep our 
products for many years.
Intec has particular strengths in supplying 
products that address the global industry 
trend known as ‘convergence’. This can 
apply to convergence of both networks and 
services – the net result is that customers are 
increasingly offered a wider range of more 
complex, higher-value products (such as 
broadband internet access, music and other 
content downloads, or mobile TV) through a 
range of different methods. Intec has a 
product set which inherently addresses 
these services with proven effectiveness, 
and we are seeing increasing success in 
these markets. 
COMMERCIAL POLICIES
Intec derives revenues from a number  
of sources. These are listed below 
approximately in order of increasing 
certainty. With a large and stable customer 
base, Intec has a high level of visibility of a 
good proportion of its forecast revenue at 
any time. ‘Recurring revenue’ (which 
includes licence upgrades, support and 
maintenance, and outsourced services)  
now provides around 42% of income, and 
is highly predictable. Professional services 
provide another steady revenue stream. 
New licences are the least predictable, 
although our broad product portfolio and 
wide geographic sales coverage gives us 
improved stability against market dynamics.
• New software licences
• Licence upgrades
• Professional services
• Outsourced (bureau) services
• Support and maintenance fees.
New software licences – Around 15% of 
Intec revenues come from selling software 
product licences to both new and existing 
customers. Pricing is based on volume of 
usage, for example the number of calls 
handled per day by a billing system. Licence 
fee revenues are typically recognised over 
an extended period on a best-practice, 
percentage of completion (PoC) basis, as 
they are usually part of a larger delivery 
project with a substantial services element. 
Licence upgrades – If a customer exceeds 
the amount of usage contracted for in the 
initial licence fee, we will charge an upgrade 
fee to the next usage level. This is normally 
reviewed on an annual basis, and can 
substantially increase the amount we bill to 
a customer over a period of years.
	 PRINCIPAL	 RISKS
	 	Intec	is	a	high-technology	business	 operating	in	dynamic,	global	markets,	 	 and	like	all	businesses	we	are	exposed	to	 	 a	number	of	risk	and	uncertainties.	The	 principal	risks	we	have	identified	are	 detailed	here,	along	with	a	high-level	 statement	of	how	we	mitigate	them,	but	 this	can	never	be	an	exhaustive	list.	We	 	 have	not	identified	generic	risks,	such	 	 as	fire	or	terrorism.
	 Market	forces	–	Risk	 	 	 	Intec	competes	in	a	dynamic	market	 	 against	a	range	of	large	and	small	vendors,	 many	of	whom	claim	to	have	similar	 products	and	services.	We	may	fail	to	be	 competitive	with	these	companies,	or	to	 offer	products	and	services	for	which	there	 	 is	no	demand	due	to	changes	in	market	 requirements.
	 Market	forces	–	Mitigation 	 	 	Intec	engages	in	regular	dialogue	with	 customers	to	understand	their	needs	 	 and	to	develop	appropriate	offerings.	 	 We	monitor	both	market	and	competitor	 activity	to	understand	and	react	to	changes.	 Sales,	marketing	and	product	management	 teams	report	regularly	to	the	executive	on	 technology	and	marketplace	issues.
	 Customers	–	Risk
	 	Intec	sells	primarily	to	a	defined	range	of	 companies	in	the	global	communications	 market.	Changes	within	this	customer	base,	 for	example	due	to	consolidation,	may	 impact	our	ability	to	sell	to	them.
	 	Customers	–	Mitigation	 	 	Intec	has	followed	a	long-term	policy	of	 product	and	geographic	diversification,	 	 to	provide	us	with	a	greater	degree	of	 protection	from	these	market	dynamics.	 	 We	attempt	not	to	be	excessively	exposed	 	 to	any	one	customer,	region	or	product	 area,	although	short-term	market	forces	 may	be	challenging.
	 ENHANCED  
BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 11
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
Professional Services – These are services 
provided by Intec staff to help customers 
implement and run our products. These 
services include:
•  Consulting – to help customers design 
and specify the systems they need
•  Implementation – to install, configure 
and integrate our products
•  Education and training – to transfer 
technical and operational knowledge  
to customers.
Intec has around 800 staff providing these 
services, based from four ‘Centres of 
Excellence’ around the world, but typically 
operating on customer sites. We also 
partner with other companies to provide 
services where appropriate or requested by 
the customer. Around 43% of our revenue 
now comes from Professional Services.
 
Support and maintenance – we charge 
customers operating our software an 
annual support and maintenance fee, which 
provides them with a very comprehensive 
support service, as well as upgrades to new 
software versions. The charge is based on  
a percentage of the original licence fee, 
depending on the level of service provided. 
Support and maintenance fees, together 
with volume-based upgrades and service 
bureau fees (see below), are referred to as 
‘recurring revenue’ and now represent 
around 42% of our turnover.
Outsourced Services – Our final line  
of business is Outsourced Services, a 
component which is growing at the present 
time, although we have had a successful 
presence in this area since 2001. Intec 
Outsourcing Services (IOS) primarily serves 
our North American customers, and 
provides full-managed facilities for various 
services needed by telecoms companies, 
mainly around the billing area. These 
services are delivered from a number of 
very highly equipped technical facilities, and 
can deliver economies of scale, particularly 
to smaller carriers who prefer not to have 
such capabilities in-house. At present we 
serve around 120 customers, although we 
expect this number to grow substantially  
in future, both through acquisition and 
organic expansion. Our stated intention  
is to acquire good-value businesses with 
predictable revenue streams, costs and cash 
flows, where we can generate economies 
of scale through consolidation of products 
and facilities.
CuSTOMERS
Intec divides its customers into two groups 
– those with software licences who operate 
our technology in-house, and those for 
whom we provide outsourced services 
(which are themselves usually based on our 
products). Our licence customers are mainly 
large national or international carriers, 
although we do also work with smaller and 
start up businesses where our products are 
appropriate for their needs. There are 
several thousand recognised telecoms 
providers around the world, but the 
majority of our licence customers fall into 
the top 1000 by size. By contrast, the 
majority of our Outsourcing Services 
customers are smaller, long-established  
US-based carriers serving local markets, 
although we do also serve a number of 
larger national operators.
Intec has a very good track record of 
customer retention, which we achieve 
through a combination of high 
performance, reliable and highly functional 
products, and close attention to customer 
service. We invest continually in product 
development, and we listen carefully to 
customers through a number of 
mechanisms, including regular User 
Conferences, User Committees, surveys 
and good account management. Our aim  
is that no customer should ever need to 
change away from an Intec product or 
service through something we have done 
or failed to do. Almost every customer  
won in the early years of Intec remains a 
customer today.
STRATEgY
Intec’s principal objective is to be the 
number one supplier globally in terms of 
BSS/OSS product sales. We believe that such 
sector leadership, delivered by strong sales 
and profitability, is the best way for a 
software business like Intec to deliver 
maximum shareholder value. In 2005 we 
were ranked number three against this 
criteria by Gartner Group, having risen 
steadily in this ranking since 2000. We 
believe that this is the most realistic 
strategic objective for us, partly because  
of the strength and depth of our product 
portfolio, and also because we currently 
compete against a group of vendors that 
have substantial business scale in areas 
where we have not traditionally been  
active, such as system integration services 
or non-product related outsourcing.
 Technology – Risk  
  Intec uses and supplies sophisticated 
software technology in its day-to-day 
operations. It is possible that we may  
fail to adequately identify problems or 
shortcomings with key technologies  
we rely on.
 Technology – Mitigation
  We only use technologies and products 
which we consider to be ‘industry standard’ 
in terms of quality and performance. All 
products undergo rigorous testing before 
deployment, and are subject to a 
programme of continual improvement. 
Product quality metrics are a key Board 
measure.
 Staff – Risk
  Intec relies on the abilities and competence  
of its staff to develop and deliver complex 
systems of high quality to customers in  
a timely fashion. We may fail to have 
adequate skills or oversight in this area, 
leading to project failure, customer 
dissatisfaction, or lack of market 
competitiveness.
  Staff – Mitigation 
  We have strong and well-established  
quality and compliance procedures which 
apply to all staff, and are regularly updated 
and published. Regular quality audits are 
undertaken by qualified individuals. All 
projects and products are managed by 
proven, experienced managers who report 
regularly on progress and budgets to the 
executive team.
 Resources – Risk
  We require an adequate level of staff and 
other resources to be able to operate the 
business properly, and to meet customer 
commitments. A lack of suitable resources 
will jeopardise financial, technical and 
operating performance.
 Resources – Mitigation 
  Resource requirements are regularly 
projected forwards, based on our business 
forecasts, to ensure we have the right level 
and type available. Divisional managers are 
responsible for ensuring that their areas of 
responsibility are properly resourced, and 
they report this status to the Executive  
team on a monthly basis.
  INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 12
ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
We intend to continue working towards this 
objective through a number of well-
established strategic approaches:
•  Continuing growth of market share  
in our core product lines through our 
traditionally strong sales and marketing 
focus;
•  Cross-selling of additional products to 
our existing 400-plus customers, the 
majority of whom have only one or two 
Intec products;
•  Expansion within these core product 
lines by developing and commercialising 
additional solution offers that expand 
our potential customer base;
•  Diversification into non-telecom markets 
where our product strengths have 
proven application, such as financial 
services; and
•  Addition of new product capabilities, by 
acquisition or internal development, that 
we can sell to new and existing 
customers.
In addition to this product-oriented strategy, 
we are also now focusing on building our 
Outsourcing Services business, as we 
believe there is continuing stable demand 
for this offering, and its predictability offers 
some insulation against the typically lumpy 
revenue characteristic of a large-scale 
software licence business.
PERFORMANCE MEASuRES
Intec has established a number of 
performance measures to which the 
remuneration of both Directors and selected 
senior managers are closely linked. This 
includes both bonuses and share options. 
We believe these financial and non-financial 
measures accurately reflect factors that will 
lead to increasing shareholder value, as well 
as focusing the management team on good 
operational practice and long-term business 
stability. Full details are included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
PROSPECTS
Intec is a strong and capable business 
that has good prospects. We operate 
within an industry that is both large and 
stable (in the sense of being a vital, long-
term component of the global economy) 
and innovative – that is, requiring new 
ideas and technology to deliver the growing 
range of services that customers demand. 
Telecoms is estimated to be a trillion dollar-
plus industry, with well over two billion 
active customers. Growth in the telecoms 
industry is steady, if not rapid, and as  
a mass consumer market that delivers  
a socially and commercially vital service,  
it has long-term viability.
The products that Intec sells are key 
operational and business components for 
any carrier. Intec has always focused on 
developing and marketing products and 
services for which there is a genuine and 
identifiable market, rather than ‘blue-sky’ 
technologies for which the demand is 
unquantifiable. However, innovation 
remains a pre-requisite for success in 
our business, and Intec focuses substantial 
efforts and resources on ensuring that 
our products are capable of meeting all 
key customer needs, now and in the 
foreseeable future.
Demand for our products comes from 
both well-established carriers, many of 
whom are engaged in long-term projects 
to update and replace older technologies, 
as well as new operators entering the 
market. Although a degree of consolidation 
is clearly taking place among the larger 
carriers, and Intec has suffered from this 
in 2006, this consolidation is outweighed 
numerically by the number of new players 
entering the market, particularly in 
developing regions like Africa or the 
Middle East. Intec has many customers 
among the larger carriers, as well as a 
good track record in winning business  
with new entrants.
A number of developments are currently 
influencing the global telecoms business, 
and by implication, our own business. These 
include the impact of greater complexity in 
services and increased competition between 
operators for customers and market share. 
We believe the impact on Intec is reasonably 
balanced. New services, and the drive for 
more competitive performance, tend to 
imply investment in new support systems to 
increase capability and reduce operational 
expenditure. Many of the new projects  
we have won in 2006 and that we are 
forecasting in future periods are driven 
by these two factors. Equally, the need  
for carriers to save money is causing a more 
rigorous approach to capital expenditure, 
and many customers are looking to their 
suppliers to help drive down costs. One of 
the more negative consequences of 
 Financial control – Risk
   Intec may fail to establish adequate financial 
systems, leading to problems of bad debts, 
cash flow, foreign exchange or interest rate 
exposure, etc.
 Financial control – Mitigation
  Intec has a global financial system which 
applies to all business operations, a well-
established budgeting and forecasting 
process, and adequate staff resources and 
experience to oversee the financial health of 
the business. All major operating units have 
suitably qualified and experienced finance 
teams who report monthly to the Executive 
team on the financial position. Intec 
maintains healthy cash balances, does  
the vast majority of its trading in stable 
currencies, and does not employ unusual  
or high-risk financial instruments.
 Sales – Risk
  Intec may fail to generate the level of sales 
necessary to sustain adequate financial 
performance and business stability.
 Sales – Mitigation 
  Intec has a proven and capable sales and 
marketing operation whose performance  
is regularly monitored by the Board. 
Challenging but realistic revenue budgets 
are set by the Board at the start of each 
financial year, and progress towards these  
is monitored on a monthly basis. Action is 
taken immediately if performance materially 
fails to meet expectation.
 Legal – Risk
  Intec contracts with its customers and 
partners to deliver products and services to 
agreed timetables and specifications. It is 
possible that one or both sides may fail to 
meet their contractual obligations, and we 
may become involved in potentially 
damaging litigation. Additionally, it is 
possible that we may breach other 
companies’ rights in terms of intellectual 
property, etc.
 Legal – Mitigation
  All material contracts are subject to legal 
review by qualified Intec staff, and by 
external counsel where required. We have 
a well-established term sheet process that 
must be followed in contracting and 
negotiating with customers. We take legal 
action only as a last resort, preferring to 
resolve issues by negotiation. We make all 
reasonable efforts to ensure that we do  
not breach the rights of others, and we 
safeguard our own IPR through oversight  
by our legal staff and external trademark 
and copyright agencies. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 13
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
competition is consolidation, among both 
customers and suppliers. Intec has 
experienced a very negative impact  
from consolidation in 2006, especially 
among large US customers. However,  
we expect this to be a trend with reducing 
impact in future, as there are commercial 
and regulatory limits to how far it can go 
although we are mindful not to ignore its 
continuing effects.
Another key development is convergence, 
as operators seek to offer a broader range 
of bundled services, and the distinction 
between basic communications services  
and more advanced offerings becomes  
less important. We believe this is a positive 
development for Intec, as our product 
portfolio is convergent in nature (that is,  
it typically supports any kind of service, 
network and billing method), and we have  
a good reputation for success in high-
profile, complex convergent projects.
RESOuRCES
Intec’s primary resources are its staff,  
the Intellectual Property contained in its 
products, its global customer base, its 
reputation and position as a capable 
supplier, and its financial and operating 
assets. Each is described briefly below:
Staff – Intec has approximately 1,700  
staff worldwide, with the majority being 
qualified professionals in a wide variety of 
fields – technology, sales, marketing, 
finance, administration, consulting, HR,  
IT, etc. Intec has above-average staff 
retention ratios, and a clear policy for 
retention, motivation and development  
of staff, as well as best-practice policies  
for pay, benefits and working conditions – 
more details can be found in our corporate 
governance statement. We aim always  
to have the necessary level and grade of 
staff resources to meet our business 
commitments and forecasts, while ensuring 
that staff are fully employed and productive.
. 
Intellectual Property – Intec is a product-
based business and the IPR contained in  
our products is key to our success. We use 
sophisticated tools and technologies  
to ensure that our products offer high 
performance and robustness, and we 
engage in regular dialogue with customers 
to ensure that we deliver appropriate 
capabilities. We believe that our products 
have a strong reputation for performance, 
reliability and functionality, and that our 
large, varied and stable customer base 
justifies this claim. Our IPR is primarily 
protected by software copyright law, rather 
than patents, in common with the majority 
of suppliers in our industry.
global customer base – Intec has a large 
and varied customer base which has grown 
steadily over the years, with low levels of 
attrition. We have good relationships with 
our customers, who we survey on an annual 
basis for satisfaction, and a number of 
mechanisms for ensuring we retain a good 
dialogue with them. Recurring and services 
income from our customers generate the 
majority of our revenues, and it is important 
that we retain their confidence and support 
through good products and services.
Reputation and position – Our 
customers, many of which are large, public 
companies, depend heavily on our products 
for critical aspects of their operations, such 
as revenue generation or customer 
relationship management. Our ability to sell 
to, and retain, such customers depends on 
our market reputation. We work hard to 
communicate our business strengths in 
numerous ways – through marketing 
activities, through our customer relationship 
and account management programmes, 
through our communications to financial 
markets, and so on. Ultimately our 
reputation rests on our ability to meet 
customer needs, and this will always be  
our number one priority.
ENvIRONMENT ANd CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A full statement regarding our 
Environmental and Corporate Social 
Responsibility policies is provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
EMPLOYEES
A full statement regarding our staff policies 
is provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Directors’ Report.
 Regulatory – Risk 
  Intec may fail to meet the statutory 
obligations placed upon it by the regulatory 
authorities of the jurisdictions in which it 
operates. This may include, but not be 
limited to – public company reporting and 
disclosure obligations; financial and tax 
requirements; environmental and safety 
requirements; employment and corporate 
social responsibility legislation.
 Regulatory – Mitigation
  Intec has firm policies covering the major 
statutory risks to which we believe we may 
be exposed, and these are communicated  
to staff through induction programmes, 
training, staff handbooks and quality 
process documents. Staff are reminded 
regularly of relevant obligations, and of 
changes to practice or legislation as it 
becomes known to us. Intec is properly 
insured against key foreseeable risks. We 
take expert external advice where required 
on matters relating to staff, and we provide  
a number of mechanisms for staff to deal 
with problems or grievances.
 Mergers & Acquisitions – Risk
  Intec is regularly involved in M&A, and it is 
possible that we may acquire a company or 
business unit that is unsuitable or contains 
problems we fail to identify. We may 
overpay for a business, or we may fail  
to integrate it successfully into Intec.
 Mergers & Acquisitions – Mitigation
  All corporate activity is subject to extensive 
due diligence, using expert external counsel 
and advisers where necessary. We make all 
reasonable efforts to uncover a true and fair 
picture of companies we intend to acquire, 
including their value, and we aim to put in 
place suitable warranties against risks we 
cannot quantify adequately. All such 
decisions are subject to Board review. 
Acquired companies are integrated into 
Intec using well-established methods, with 
regular legal, financial and operational 
oversight of progress by the Executive team. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 14
REvENuE
Intec supplies business and operations 
support systems (BSS/OSS) to the 
international telecommunications market 
through a regional structure. A segmental 
breakdown is contained within the financial 
statements.
In the year to 30 September 2006 revenue 
decreased by three per cent to £112.3 
million, against £116.2 million in FY 2005. 
The figure for FY 2006 includes a 
contribution of £1.3 million from the 
acquisition of EUR Systems late in the  
period. The business has been impacted  
by extended sales cycles, primarily as an 
“This is the Group’s first full year report presented 
under International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS). In May 2006, at the time of our half-year 
results, we issued restated historic figures which 
set out the significant changes arising from the 
transition to IFRS and a reconciliation to UK GAAP.”
CHIEF FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
SOLID  
POTENTIAL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 15
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
impact of consolidation and particularly in 
the USA. However, Intec continues to win 
substantial business in this environment, and 
the good growth achieved in our CALA and 
Asia-Pacific regions underlines our potential.
REvENuE RECOgNITION
Consistent with previous years, revenue 
from implementation projects is recognised, 
mostly on a percentage of completion basis, 
as the work is delivered to customers. As 
part of this process, evaluations are made in 
regards to any uncertainty on the project 
and the certainty of payment. In particular, 
for large projects which have extended 
payment terms, allowance is made for the 
possibility of non-collection of payments.
 
In FY 2006 a major US customer announced 
a merger in the second half of the year, 
which resulted in the suspension of key parts 
of two projects. As a consequence of the 
resulting uncertainty, revenue is now being 
recognised on these projects only when  
cash collection is certain. This resulted in  
£5.5 million of revenue which had previously 
been recognised prior to the merger 
announcement being excluded at  
30 September 2006. Our overall revenue 
recognition policy remains unchanged.
SEgMENTAL ANALYSIS
Intec’s principal sources of revenue are  
from sales of our broad portfolio of BSS/OSS 
software solutions, including associated 
maintenance, support, professional services 
and upgrade revenues. Each of these areas 
makes a substantial contribution.
Revenues derived from selling product 
licences fell by 35 per cent to £16.5 million 
(FY 2005: £25.4 million), representing 15  
per cent of revenue (FY 2005: 22 per cent). 
Revenues derived from recurring annual 
support contracts, ASP and bureau services, 
and volume-based licence upgrades 
increased by 5 per cent to £47.0 million  
(FY 2005: £44.9 million) or 42 per cent of 
the total (FY 2005: 39 per cent). Revenues 
from implementation, consultancy, 
education and training services rose  
6 per cent to £48.8 million (FY 2005:  
£45.9 million), with services now accounting 
for 43 per cent of total revenue (FY 2005:  
39 per cent). Investment initiatives that will 
help improve the margins attached to this 
service revenue are progressing well, 
including the greater use of our expanded 
offshore facilities. 
The global nature and worldwide reach  
of Intec is clearly demonstrated with over  
90 per cent of revenues being generated 
outside the UK. Looking at regional  
revenue performance:
Intec’s North American operation suffered 
substantially, due to the effects of mergers 
or planned mergers between several major 
Intec customers and the continuing decline 
in the value of the US dollar. Revenue 
decreased 20 per cent to £33.3 million (FY 
2005: £41.4 million) or 29 per cent of total 
revenue (FY 2005: 36 per cent). However, 
Intec retains a solid footprint in this market, 
and our recent moves to build our US 
outsourcing business will further consolidate 
our position.
Revenue for our Europe, Middle East & Africa 
(EMEA) region was slightly down at £50.6 
million (FY 2005: £53.9 million) or 45 per cent 
of the total revenue. Again this performance 
is reflective of the difficult market conditions 
experienced during the year. Nevertheless, 
the EMEA region saw a number of good  
wins in very competitive bids.
1 Ne W lice Nces – £16.5 m 2 professio NAl ser Vices – £48.8m 3 recurri NG re Ve Nue – £47.0m 90
%
re Ve Nues G e Ner Ated  
outside the u K
REv ENu E SOu RCES
1
2
3 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 16
Asia Pacific (AP) saw an increase of 42 per cent 
to £18.9 million (FY 2005: £13.3 million) or 
17 per cent of total revenue. This is a very 
encouraging result in a region that has low 
indigenous labour rates and generally lower 
pricing, and reflects our ability to offer 
high-value solutions to developing and 
high-population regions such as China 
and Indonesia.
The Caribbean & Latin America (CALA) 
region had revenues of £9.5 million  
(FY 2005: £7.6 million) or 9 per cent of total 
revenue. (FY 2005: 7 per cent). The region 
has continued to grow despite the lack of 
any inherited retail billing business with the 
2005 Singl.eView acquisition, however a 
healthy pipeline of prospects for Intec 
Convergent Billing is developing.
MARgINS ANd COSTS 
Gross margin has reduced to 55 per cent  
(FY 2005: 62 per cent) primarily as a result  
of the shortfall in high margin retail billing 
licence sales in FY 2006. During FY 2006  
we increased our investment in Bangalore  
to £4.3 million (compared to £1.6 million in 
FY 2005) to further develop a professional 
services capability with lower blended costs. 
We will see the initial gross margin benefit 
from this investment during FY 2007.
Distribution costs increased to £20.0 million 
(FY 2005: £18.6 million) largely due to 
increased staffing in pre-sales and account 
management, and the additional long-term 
sales investment associated with bidding for 
large billing opportunities. 
The increase in other administrative 
expenses to £26.0 million (FY 2005:  
£24.0 million) is largely due to cost increases 
around office and infrastructure facilities. 
This expense category includes all office 
facility costs, head office and administrative 
expenses, as well as other shared business 
costs such as common IT infrastructure.
Development costs of £15.2 million  
(FY 2005: £16.0 million) decreased due to 
completion of certain major new version 
projects, and the transition of some 
resources to lower cost regions.
EARNINgS
Earnings performance in 2006 has been 
severely impacted by the revenue shortfall, 
despite the measures we took towards the 
year end to reduce costs. This included a 
substantial staff restructuring programme, 
for which we have recorded an exceptional 
charge this year, that will deliver significant 
savings in future years.
Share-based payments included in  
operating profit were £1.5 million (FY 2005: 
£1.2 million). In the 2006 financial year we 
have a true full-year effect, reduced by the 
impact of share option lapses due to leavers 
from the scheme.
EBITDA before exceptional items fell to  
£3.6 million (FY 2005: £16.3 million) giving  
a margin of 3.2 per cent (FY 2005: 14.0 per 
cent). Clearly the revenue shortfall we have 
experienced has had a severe impact on 
profits, and we have implemented measures 
on a number of fronts to tackle this poor 
financial result.
Reported loss before tax was £5.3 million  
(FY 2005: profit of £11.1 million) after 
amortisation of intangible assets of  
£2.6 million (FY 2005: £1.6 million). Loss per 
share before exceptional items was 0.86p 
(2005: earnings of 3.39p). Basic loss per share 
was 2.06p (FY 2005: earnings of 3.01p).
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
During the period Intec incurred exceptional 
costs of £3.7 million. These costs reflect  
the costs of the staff restructuring and 
associated expenses late in FY 2006 of  
£4.2 million, offset by recovery of a debt, 
originally written off in 2002, with Intec 
recovering £0.4 million.
£4.3M
i NVestme Nt i N offshore  
oper Atio Ns £15.2M
i NVestme Nt i N  
de Velopme Nt CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 17
TAXATION
The major trading companies in the Group 
have not incurred material corporate tax 
liabilities. The US operations have substantial 
ongoing tax benefits arising from goodwill 
allowances which will continue to reduce tax 
charges against profits in future periods. In 
addition, there are significant losses brought 
forward in the US, Canada, Denmark and 
Ireland. However, we have incurred 
corporate taxation in a number of our 
smaller overseas trading subsidiaries and 
branches amounting to £1.5 million 
(FY2005: £1.3 million), offset by a tax credit 
of £0.4 million (FY 2005: £0.1 million) in 
respect of previous years. The remainder of 
the tax charge is in respect of a deferred tax 
credit of £0.5 million (FY 2005: charge  
£0.2 million) and of withholding tax, which 
is deducted at source in certain jurisdictions 
and which we cannot recover, amounting to 
£0.4 million (FY 2005: £0.6 million). This has 
resulted in an overall tax charge of  
£1.0 million (FY 2005: £2.0 million).
CASh FLOwS ANd FINANCIAL 
POSITION
We generated a positive operating  
cash inflow of £14.1 million (FY 2005:  
£1.2 million), a year-on-year improvement  
where we have translated working  
capital investment in major projects in  
prior periods into cash during FY 2006.
We have continued our focus on control  
of our trade debtors and as a result have 
managed to maintain the annualised  
debtor-days ratio materially in line with  
last year, being 99 days compared to 93 days 
at 30 September 2005, the increase being  
as a result of the lower revenues following 
the deferral of revenue noted above.
Overall our cash and cash equivalents 
increased by £2.2 million from £23.8 million 
at the start of the year to £26.0 million at  
30 September 2006. During August we 
acquired EUR Systems (noted below) for  
£7.1 million which was financed through  
a facility with the Company’s bankers.
Our net cash and current asset investments 
of £18.6 million (FY 2005: £21.6 million) are 
sufficient to meet the Group’s current 
operating requirements. 
FOREIgN CuRRENCY ANd TREASuRY
Intec normally invoices its customers in 
sterling, US dollars or euros, which balances 
the risk of exposing the Group to significant 
foreign currency gains and losses. As with all 
global companies, Intec’s principal exposure 
is to foreign currency translation risk.  
The Group is only exposed to interest rate 
movements on its net cash position. The 
Group’s policy is currently not to hedge 
either foreign exchange or interest rate 
exposures. However, we keep this policy 
under review especially in light of continuing 
adverse exchange rate movements against 
the US dollar.
ACQuISITIONS – EuR SYSTEMS
On 1 September Intec acquired the 
operating assets of EUR Systems, a privately 
held provider of outsourced billing and 
related services headquartered in 
Mechanicsburg, USA, for approximately £7.3 
million in cash. Intec negotiated a loan with 
its bankers, RBS, to fund this acquisition. 
EUR has predictable cash generation and 
earnings sufficient to fund this debt. One of 
the key goals of this acquisition is to build 
recurring revenues through the predictable 
nature of monthly bureau income. 
jO hN ARBuThNOTT FCMA
Chief Financial Officer
12 December 2006
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
£14.1 M
oper Ati NG c Ash i Nflo W INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 18
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
08. gary Bunney – Chief Operating Officer, 
product operations and services.
09. Craig Preston – Director of Finance, and 
Company Secretary.
10. Andrew Rodaway – Director of 
Marketing and Communications
11. j acqui Summons – Director of Human 
Resources
12. david heaps – Director of Corporate 
Development
 
01
03
05
07
09
11
12
04
02
06
08
10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 19
The directors of the Company and their 
responsibilities within the Group are set
out below:
01. jO hN hugh ES, 55
Non-executive chairman
John has more than 30 years’ experience 
leading complex, high technology 
businesses operating at a global level, 
including senior executive positions at Thales 
Group (where he was latterly executive  
vice president & chief operating officer, 
responsible for a 25,000+ people 
organisation), Lucent Technologies (where 
his responsibilities included being president 
of its worldwide GSM and UMTS businesses) 
and Hewlett Packard. He has significant 
experience of managing growth companies, 
especially those supplying complex solutions 
and services to business customers, mergers 
and acquisitions, international/channel 
expansion and development of leadership 
teams. John has lived and worked in the USA 
and mainland Europe as well as the UK, and 
is executive chairman of Parity Group plc and 
a member of the board of NICE-Systems Ltd 
(a NASDAQ-listed company). John is also a 
non-executive director of Barco n.v., a 
leading Belgian technology business and of 
Global Crossing Telecoms UK, a subsidiary of 
Global Crossing Limited. He holds a BSc in 
Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
As non-executive chairman of Intec, John’s 
responsibilities focus on Board leadership, 
strategy, corporate and financial 
governance, as well as working closely with 
the executive team headed by the CEO.
02. KEvIN AdAMS, 51
Chief executive officer
Kevin has over 30 years’ experience in IT 
businesses operating globally and joined 
Intec at its formation in October 1997. As 
CEO, he has successfully developed the 
business and steered Intec through its IPO 
and 12 acquisitions. 
Kevin has in-depth experience of managing 
and developing fast growing IT businesses, 
mergers and acquisitions and integrations. 
Prior to joining Intec, Kevin held a number of 
executive roles for various UK and US based 
fast growth IT companies. Immediately prior 
to Intec he was with Logica where he 
managed two specialist telecom product 
centres and their global sales and delivery 
channels. Before that, he was senior vice 
president of US software company, Blyth, 
where he headed the EMEA operations. 
Kevin is also Non-executive chairman of  
UK based, AIM-listed PlusNet plc,  
a market leading specialist supplier of 
broadband and related services. He holds  
an HND in Polymer Science from  
Manchester University.
As CEO, Kevin is primarily responsible for 
strategy, investor and customer relation  
and high level day to day operations.
03. jO hN ARBuThNOTT FCMA, 53
Chief financial officer
John has over 28 years’ commercial and 
financial experience, primarily in the oil 
industry. Prior to joining Intec in 1999 he 
worked in interim finance management  
roles with Centrica and BHP. John has direct 
experience and involvement in listed 
company reporting and financial 
management as well as mergers, 
acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, 
partnering, outsourcing and capital raising. 
As chief financial officer, John is responsible 
for the overall financial position of the 
Company, including financial control and 
statutory reporting, audits, corporate 
governance, capital raising, and related 
matters such as corporate services.
 
04. ROgER MCdOwELL, 51
Senior non-executive director
Roger is a non-executive director of 
Advanced Fluid Connections PLC, Booth 
Industries Group plc, Augean PLC and is the 
former CEO of Oliver Ashworth Group plc. 
Roger joined Oliver Ashworth as CEO after 
leaving university. Over a 20 year period, he 
grew the business from a small single site 
pipeline product distributor with sub £1 
million revenue to a profitable PLC with 25 
sites and over £100 million revenue. Since 
leaving this role in 2000, Roger has held 
several appointments as non-executive 
chairman and non-executive director of 
venture capital funded companies in a 
range of industries. Roger is the senior 
independent non-executive director  
of Intec.
05. PETER MANNINg, 51
Non-executive director
Peter is chief executive of HBS Ltd, a private 
equity owned business process outsourcing 
company focused on the UK Public Sector. 
He has extensive experience in the 
technology and telecommunication 
industries both in the UK and globally. He  
is a non-executive director of High Speed 
Office Ltd (UK) and Cablecom GmbH 
(Switzerland). Peter was president and chief 
executive of Colt Telecommunications PLC 
between 2000 and 2003. Prior to that, he 
was president and CEO of Concert 
Communications, based in Virginia, USA. 
Peter has held a number of director level 
positions in telecom companies in the UK 
and Europe. He is a Chartered Engineer  
and Fellow of the Institution of Electrical 
Engineers, a Fellow of the Institute of 
Directors, a Liveryman of London 
(Worshipful Company of Information 
Technologists) and holds a first class  
honours degree in Computer Science.
06. RENé K ERN, 43
Non-executive director
René is a managing director at General 
Atlantic LLC (GA), a global private equity 
firm which manages approximately $10 
billion in assets. He is currently involved  
with leading technology and IT services 
companies in the telecommunications, 
healthcare and finance sectors. Between 
1996 and 2002, René headed GA’s 
European offices, leading several new 
investments and building a team of senior 
professionals and advisers. He is also a 
member of General Atlantic’s Executive 
Committee and Investment Committee.
07. gORdON STuART, 43
Non-executive director
Gordon is Group Finance Director of Xansa 
plc. Prior to that he was Finance Director at 
London Bridge Software Holdings plc until 
its acquisition by Fair Isaac Corporation. 
Gordon has also held senior executive 
positions at Dell Computer Corporation  
and McKinsey and Co. He is a Fellow of  
the Institute of Chartered Accountants  
of England and Wales, and began his 
financial career at Price Waterhouse. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE gOvERNANCE POLICY
The Board of Intec Telecom Systems PLC is committed to the 
highest standards of corporate governance, professional integrity 
and ethical behaviour across the entire business. The directors 
assume responsibility for setting and maintaining these standards, 
and promoting them actively among all staff and business partners. 
The Board aims to achieve full compliance with regulations on 
corporate governance, as well as meeting best practice for 
international companies as appropriate to its operations. 
COMPLIANCE wITh ThE COMBINEd COdE ON CORPORATE 
gOvERNANCE (COMBINEd COdE)
The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in 
relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council in July 2003 which is appended to the UK Listing 
Rules, how they have applied its principles and whether they have 
complied with its provisions through the accounting period.
Details of the Group’s compliance with the provisions of the Code 
are describe below, with any exceptions to compliance detailed on 
page 24.
EXECuTIvE dIRECTORS ANd RESPONSIBILITIES OF ThE  
MAIN BOARd
At year end, the Company was managed by the Board of Directors, 
comprising a non-executive chairman, chief executive officer and 
chief financial officer, three independent non-executive directors, 
and a further non-executive director representing General Atlantic 
Partners (Bermuda) LP (a major shareholder in the Company). The 
non-executive directors, who served throughout the year, were 
Roger McDowell, Peter Manning and René Kern. During the year, 
Mike Frayne and Thomas Ivarson both served as non-executive 
directors until their resignations on 6 December 2005. In addition, 
Gordon Stuart joined the board as a non-executive director on  
31 August 2006. 
The chairman undertakes the leadership of the Board by ensuring 
and facilitating its effectiveness by the provision of timely, accurate 
and clear information on all aspects of the Group’s business. The 
chairman reviews the effectiveness of all directors; the senior non-
executive director reviews the effectiveness of the chairman. This 
process comprises an assessment questionnaire, covering the 
effectiveness of the Board and its committees, as well as the 
effectiveness of individual members of the Board. Following this 
review, action plans were developed relating to the Board 
composition (including the appointment of Gordon Stuart, a non-
executive director with ‘recent and relevant’ financial experience) 
and as regards to Board succession planning. Other than the actions 
identified above, no other matters were noted as regards to the 
effectiveness or contribution of individual directors.
The chief executive officer undertakes the leadership and 
responsibility for the running of the Group’s business on a day-to-
day basis. Meetings of the Group’s senior management team take 
place at regular intervals, with senior staff reporting formally to the 
Board on activities, budgets and objectives to ensure an appropriate 
level of control and information exchange is maintained. The chief 
executive officer conducts a formal annual appraisal of all regional 
heads of the business to ensure optimum business contribution.
The Board meets regularly, at least quarterly, to discuss and agree 
on the various matters brought before it, including the trading 
results, through a comprehensive briefing document, prepared  
by the Executive Directors and senior managers from all principal 
functions of the business. All directors have substantial experience 
in relevant positions and in the management of listed companies  
of significant size.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for 
decision. The Board formally reviews all matters affecting the 
Company, including strategy, acquisitions, disposals, budgets, 
business development, investor relations, product development 
goals, and senior appointments. In its review the Board also 
monitors the Company’s exposure to key risks.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company 
secretary and to other senior managers, and may take independent 
professional advice on any matter which they believe warrants it at 
the Company’s expense.
Each member of the Board brings different experience and skills to 
the Board and its various committees. The Board composition is 
kept under review and, when a new appointment is to be made, 
consideration is given to the particular skills, knowledge and 
experience that a potential new member could add to the existing 
board composition. This mix of skills and business experience is a 
major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board, ensuring 
matters are debated and that no individual or group dominates the 
board decision-making process.
A comprehensive induction is provided to new Board members.  
The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive 
directors have in ensuring high governance standards. 
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election under 
the retirement by rotation provisions in the Company’s Articles of 
Association if they have held office for more than 30 months since 
their appointments or last re-appointment. Gordon Stuart, who was 
appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will offer himself 
for retirement and re-election to the Board at the next Annual 
General Meeting.
Board and Board Committee attendance during 2006 was  
as follows:
  Audit Remuneration 
 Board Committee Committee 
Number of meetings 7 5 4
Attendance:   
John Hughes 7 – –
Kevin Adams 7 – –
John Arbuthnott 7 – –
Roger McDowell 7 5 4
Peter Manning 6 3 4
Gordon Stuart
i
 1 1 –
René Kern 6 – –
Thomas Ivarson
ii
 1 1 –
Mike Frayne
ii
 2 – –
i Gordon Stuart was appointed as non-executive director on 31 August 2006 
ii Mike Frayne and Thomas Ivarson resigned from the Board on 6 December 2005  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 21
The table shows the number of meetings attended by each director 
during the year, or during the period since they joined, in their 
capacity as a Director of the Board or member of the relevant 
committee.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure 
the Board that they can give the time and commitment necessary  
to properly fulfil their duties, both in terms of availability to attend 
meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting 
preparation time.
Roger McDowell is the senior non-executive director to the Board.
Three of the four non-executive directors serving at the year end 
are considered to be independent, as defined in Section A3.2 of the 
Code. They have been appointed for specified terms, and provide 
the necessary balance to the Executive Directors as a result of their 
outside expertise.
One of the non-executive directors, René Kern, is not considered  
to be independent, as defined in Section A3.2 of the Code.  
He represents the interest of General Atlantic Partners (Bermuda)  
LP, a major shareholder in the Company and as such is not 
considered independent. 
The Board has established several committees, each with defined 
terms of reference, procedures and responsibilities. During the year, 
each committee reviewed its respective terms of reference and 
recommended to the Board certain changes to reflect changes to 
the size and structure of the Group, all of which have now been 
implemented. The terms of reference for each committee are 
published on the Company’s website, and are available from the 
Company Secretary.
The committees review their terms of reference and their 
effectiveness annually, and if necessary recommend any changes  
to the Board. The minutes of the committee meetings are normally 
sent to all directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
The frequency and attendance for each of the committees is shown 
in the table above.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee was chaired by Roger McDowell, and  
also comprised Peter Manning, Gordon Stuart (following his 
appointment) and Thomas Ivarson (prior to his resignation) who  
are all considered to be independent non-executive directors. The 
Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Finance and 
external auditors normally attend all meetings and the Committee 
also meets the external auditors without management present. The 
Audit Committee is required to meet alone at least three times a 
year and has responsibility for reviewing a wide range of financial 
matters including the half-year and annual accounts prior to their 
submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in 
force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported  
to shareholders. The Audit Committee advises the Board on the 
appointment of external and internal auditors (including reviewing 
their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity) and on their 
remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the 
nature and scope of their audit work.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee as  
a whole have sufficient recent and relevant experience to carry out 
the Committee’s functions, a view strengthened following the 
appointment of Gordon Stuart.
During the year the Audit Committee, operating under its terms  
of reference, discharged its responsibilities by:
reviewing Intec’s draft financial statements and interim and 
annual results announcements prior to Board approval and 
reviewing the external auditors’ detailed reports;
reviewing Intec’s trading announcements prior to their release;
reviewing the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting 
policies;
reviewing and approving the audit fees;
reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of Intec 
accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work, 
confirmation of auditor independence and the terms of 
engagement for each audit;
reviewing the Risks and Control Failures Report covering the 
systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting  
to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular 
updates on key risk areas of financial control;
reviewing readiness for the changeover of financial reporting 
from existing UK GAAP to International Financial Reporting 
Standards; and
reviewing the programme of the implementation of a new 
Group ERP/reporting system, ongoing throughout the year.
The Audit Committee has also implemented procedures relating  
to the provision of non-audit services by the Company’s auditors, 
which include requiring non-audit work and the fees involved to  
be approved in advance by the chairman of the Audit Committee.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Peter Manning and  
its other members were Roger McDowell and Thomas Ivarson  
(prior to his resignation). Further information on the Committee’s 
responsibilities is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Following the resignation of Thomas Ivarson, former chair of the 
Nomination Committee, the Board decided due to the size of the 
current Board, it did not require a separate Nominations Committee, 
instead all roles and responsibilities of the Nominations Committee 
have been undertaken by the Board as a whole, normally under the 
leadership of the non-executive chairman. In the absence of the 
Group’s Chairman, the senior non-executive director has deputised.
BUSINESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS
The Board recognises that the Group is accountable to its 
shareholders and, at the same time, seeks to take into account  
the interests of all its stakeholders including customers, employees, 
suppliers and subcontractors, as well as the local community,  
and the environment in which it operates.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
BUSINESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS (CONTINUED)
Shareholders
The Group takes its responsibilities owed to shareholders seriously. 
To this end it seeks to provide shareholders with a satisfactory rate 
of return on their investment and to sustain and improve the level 
of this return. Financial reports are provided to shareholders in a 
timely manner, and extensive information on the Company is 
provided on its website. The Group communicates its goals and 
objectives with actual and potential shareholders honestly and 
expeditiously. The non-executive chairman, John Hughes and the 
senior non-executive director, Roger McDowell, are available to 
meet with shareholders at their request.
 
Customers
The Group treats all its customers with the utmost respect and 
seeks to be honest and fair in all relationships with them. The 
Group provides its customers with products and levels of customer 
service of outstanding quality. Customer satisfaction is surveyed on 
an annual basis and any customer complaints or issues are treated 
with the utmost seriousness.
Employees
The Group recognises the value of its employees and that the 
success of the Group is due to their efforts. The Group respects the 
dignity and rights of all its employees. The Group provides clean, 
healthy and safe working conditions. An inclusive working 
environment and a culture of openness are maintained by the 
regular dissemination of information through regional meetings. 
The Group endeavours to provide equal opportunities for all 
employees and facilitates the development of employees’ skill sets. 
A fair remuneration policy is adopted in every country in which the 
Group operates. The views of all staff are solicited annually on a 
range of issues through an anonymous staff survey which is 
disseminated to all employees. ‘Employee Relations Forums’ (ERFs) 
have been established in all Group offices where it is practical to do 
so. The ERFs provide a forum where staff can raise any matters of 
concern, and address questions on any pertinent matter to the 
Company’s management.
During the course of the year the Group recruited a very senior 
Human Resources professional to lead and upgrade its worldwide HR 
function as part of its commitment to best practice in HR matters.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental 
harassment of its employees. The Group operates an equal 
opportunities policy and specifically prohibits discrimination  
on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, gender, age, religion, political 
or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation. The Group does 
not employ underage staff.
‘WHISTLEBLOWING’ IN CONFIDENCE
Each region establishes and communicates to its employees 
processes which ensure that individuals may disclose concerns  
to senior management without fear of retaliatory action and  
then that such disclosures are appropriately investigated.
Such processes at the minimum cover concerns relating to:
breach of legal obligations;
danger to health and safety;
damage to the environment;
inappropriate accounting;
financial impropriety;
breach of Company policies; and
deliberate concealment or falsification of facts or information.
Employees are at liberty to communicate their concerns to any 
member of the business’s senior management team and, if felt 
necessary or in the event of inadequate investigation/action, to  
the Chairman of the Audit Committee or any other non-executive 
director of the Board of the Group as appropriate.
The process established by each business shall provide that 
employees shall be safeguarded from retaliatory action provided 
their disclosures are:
delivered in good faith and in seeking to safeguard the best 
interests of the Company;
not made anonymously or to the media; and
not motivated by self-interest or malice.
Suppliers and subcontractors
Relationships with suppliers and subcontractors are based on mutual 
respect and abidance by contractually agreed terms. The Group  
seeks to be honest and fair in its relationships with suppliers and 
subcontractors and to honour the terms of agreements reached.
The Group does not believe that the giving or accepting of bribes  
is acceptable business conduct.
 
Community
The Group seeks to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws 
of the countries in which it operates and adhering to best social 
practice where feasible. It aims to be sensitive to the local 
community’s cultural, social and economic needs.
Environment
The Group recognises that the nature of its business has inherently 
limited impact on the environment. However, every effort is made 
to ensure the environmental impact of the Group’s operational 
practices is kept to a minimum, including strict adherence to all 
statutory requirements. To this end, a policy of minimising and 
recycling waste and conserving energy is pursued wherever it is 
viable to do so.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial reporting
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements 
which comprise the consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses, the 
consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated group cash flow 
statement and the related notes. Half yearly reports are also 
presented in a timely fashion, in compliance with Listing Authority 
requirements and to meet best practice market standards.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 23
Going concern statement
The directors, having made suitable enquiries and analysis of  
the accounts, consider that the Group has adequate resources  
to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it  
is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing financial statements. 
Internal control and risk management
The directors, who are responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal control, have established systems to ensure that an 
appropriate and reasonable level of oversight and control is 
provided. These systems are reviewed for effectiveness not less  
than annually by the Audit Committee and the Board, and include 
financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls. 
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of internal control of 
the Group in the period under consideration, and have taken into 
account any material developments which have taken place since  
30 September 2006 up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts, the procedures and systems set out above, 
and the reports provided by individual managers. Such a system  
can only provide a reasonable and not absolute level of assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
A formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group has remained in place up to the 
approval date of the Annual Report and Accounts. That process is 
formally reviewed by the Board on an annual basis, is monitored 
regularly by the Executive Directors, and accords with the 
publication by the Turnbull working party on guidance for directors 
on internal control – Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code.
As might be expected in a Group of this size, a key control 
procedure during the year was the day-to-day supervision of the 
business by the Executive Directors. As such, the Board and the 
Audit Committee do not consider it to be appropriate to have a 
formal internal audit function at the present time. However, clear 
management responsibilities have been determined for each entity 
with authorisation limits and segregation of duties established for 
the operating functions of the Group. The Board reviews its 
business processes on a continuous basis and takes steps to 
enhance controls in all business areas.
Financial control
Financial results with comparison to budgets and latest forecasts  
are reported on a monthly basis to the Board by the relevant senior 
managers across the Group, together with a report on operational 
achievements, objectives and issues encountered. Managers are 
supplied with detailed information on budget performance and 
variances to allow them to prepare their reports and address any 
problems. Detailed annual budgets are reviewed and approved by 
the Board. Budgets and objectives are updated regularly in the light 
of market developments and Company progress. Any significant 
variances from budgets are discussed at Board meetings and actions 
set in place to address them.
Approval levels for authorisation of expenditure are at set levels  
and cascaded through the regional management structure with  
any expenditure in excess of £25,000 requiring approval from  
the Executive Board which comprises the Executive Directors  
and selected Senior Managers. All commercial contracts of business 
require review by the in-house legal department and, in the case  
of sales, a bid and contract approval process is in place.
Operational control and risk management
Operating and regional units formally report to the Board at 
monthly intervals on all non-financial matters, such as customer 
account management across all regions, sales performance, 
research and development project progress, product quality and 
customer support metrics, marketing programmes, IT systems, 
internal service level agreements and human resources issues. 
Risk management is applied through a systematic process of:
identification of risk sources by senior managers; 
assessment of the effects of risk; 
formulation of strategies to address each risk; and
inclusion of appropriate contingency provision in budgets  
if required.
All senior managers of key operational areas of the business compile 
a list of significant risks, rank each risk for likelihood and impact, 
and set out plans for their management and mitigation, in light of 
the relative impact and costs. This information is reviewed monthly 
and summarised into a Risk Report which is reviewed by the main 
Board on at least an annual basis.
External communications and price sensitive information
The requirement for compliance with relevant Financial Services 
Authority provisions, such as staff share dealing and external 
communications, is communicated regularly to staff and actively 
monitored and regulated by the Company Secretary. An 
understanding of compliance and regulatory issues is now a part  
of staff induction training, is set out in the Company Handbook, 
and forms part of the terms and conditions of employment. The 
Company’s staff is notified on a regular basis of any applicable close 
period or other restrictions on dealing or external communications 
consequent on working for a listed company. Only specific senior 
staff are authorised to comment externally on matters which might 
be considered to be price sensitive information, and a Board-level 
process exists for determining which events or information should 
be considered price sensitive. All material external communications 
are subject to formal Board approval and by appropriate external 
advisers if relevant.
•
•
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 24
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT (CONTINUED)
Information management and security
The Group uses computer systems for the majority of its financial 
control and record-keeping purposes. These systems are regularly 
reviewed for their ability to provide the security, accuracy and 
availability of information required to manage and control the 
business. The Group has established controls and procedures over 
the off-site storage of data held on computers, has a defined and 
monitored information security policy for all staff, maintains 
appropriate measures against deliberate external attack, regularly 
audits all computers for legal compliance and educates all staff in 
these matters. Security systems have been reviewed and upgraded 
regularly during the current year to deal with perceived changes to 
the risk of loss, damage or information corruption through internal 
and external factors.
Quality of personnel and employee involvement
The Board approves all senior appointments to the Group’s subsidiary 
businesses. The Group is committed to attracting and retaining the 
highest calibre of personnel. It strives to do this through, amongst 
other things, the application of high standards in recruitment.
The Group is aware of the importance of good communication  
in relationships with its staff. The Group follows a policy of 
encouraging training and regular meetings between management 
and staff in order to provide a common awareness on the part of 
the staff of the financial and economic circumstances affecting the 
Group’s performance. Most employees participate in the growth  
of the business through the ownership of share options and 
participation in the Group bonus schemes.
Commitment to continuous improvement
Measures continue to be taken to embed internal controls and  
risk management procedures into the business processes of the 
organisation and to deal with areas of improvement which come  
to the management’s and the Board’s attention. Metrics and quality 
objectives continue to be actively implemented and monitored as 
part of a continual improvement programme.
This increased emphasis on quality and improvement has led to a 
number of new initiatives, concentrating on underpinning and 
supporting business-led objectives based on real business needs 
and benefits. Business processes throughout the organisation are 
currently being revised and reassessed to ensure they are effective 
and continue to reflect real business needs.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
The Company engages in full and open communication with both 
institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all 
queries received. In conjunction with the Company’s brokers and 
other financial advisers all relevant news is distributed in a timely 
fashion through appropriate channels to ensure shareholders are 
able to access material information on the Company’s progress. An 
investor relations website has been established which contains all 
publicly available financial information and news on the Company. 
Investors or others may subscribe through the website to an 
electronic news service which provides automated circulation of  
all regulatory announcements. The Group’s Annual and Interim 
Reports are circulated to all shareholders on record and other 
interested parties, and may also be requested through a number of 
channels operated by WILink plc. The Company also monitors the 
opinions of shareholders and the research published by market 
analysts insofar as this is practicable, and responds to concerns 
when appropriate. The Company reported quarterly up to the  
end of the 2005 financial year (half yearly thereafter) on its 
performance, holding publicly accessible conferences or 
teleconferences where investors may question the directors on  
any aspect of its business or related matters. All shareholders have 
at least 21 working days’ notice of the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), which is held at a convenient location with adequate 
facilities for the expected audience. The directors and committee 
chairmen are available for questions at the AGM. The Company 
meets all provisions of the Combined Code in respect of proxy 
voting arrangements and resolutions.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with all 
Code provisions throughout the year ended 30 September 2006. 
The Board believes that the Company has complied throughout  
the financial year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 
Combined Code, with the following exceptions:
A4.6 During the year the Board as a whole performed the roles 
and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee, and as 
such has not included a separate section detailing the work  
of the Nominations Committee within the Annual Report.
C3.1 Prior to the appointment of Gordon Stuart (31 August 2006) 
there was no non-executive director who had ‘relevant and 
recent’ financial experience.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf
CRAIG PRESTON ACA
Company Secretary
12 December 2006
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 25
Di RECTORs’ REmu NERATi ON REPORT
INTRODUCTION
This report, which has been prepared in accordance with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, sets out Intec 
Telecom Systems PLC’s executive remuneration policy and details 
directors’ remuneration and benefits for the financial year under 
review. The report also meets the relevant requirements of the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating  
to directors’ remuneration. As required by the Regulations, a 
resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements 
will be approved.
The regulations also require the auditors to report to the Company’s 
members on certain information within this report and to state 
whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as amended 
by the Regulations). The report is therefore divided into separate 
sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Company has a Remuneration Committee which is constituted 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code. 
Throughout the year the Committee was chaired by Peter Manning 
and its other members during the year were Roger McDowell, 
Thomas Ivarson, until his resignation on 6 December 2005 and 
Gordon Stuart, upon his appointment as a non-executive director 
on 31 August 2006.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial 
interests (other than as a shareholder), conflicts of interests arising 
from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the 
business. None of the directors plays a part in any determination  
of his or her own remuneration.
The Committee met four times during the financial year. It has 
responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the 
Company’s policy on staff remuneration and for the determination, 
within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages 
for each of the Executive Directors and senior management 
(including pension rights and any compensation payments). 
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to:
make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy 
on directors’ and senior staff remuneration, and to oversee share 
option schemes; 
set remuneration at a level appropriate to the responsibility and 
experience of the directors;
ensure that such remuneration is adequate to attract and retain 
directors and staff of the required calibre; and
ensure that remuneration is in line with current industry practice, 
and set in light of pay and conditions of other staff within the 
Group. 
•
•
•
•
Remuneration policy
Executive remuneration packages are: 
designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre 
needed to maintain the Company’s position as a market leader 
within the IT and telecoms industry;
designed to align the interests of executives with shareholders; 
and
constructed with a substantial performance-related element  
set against appropriately demanding targets.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and key 
members of senior management, and the determination of their 
annual remuneration packages, are undertaken by the Committee. 
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by 
the Board. In determining the directors’ remuneration for the year 
the Committee consulted the Executive Directors and an 
independent external consultancy, New Bridge Street Consultants, 
about its proposals. New Bridge Street Consultants does not 
provide any other services to the Company.
 
There are four main elements of the remuneration package for 
Executive Directors:
(a) basic salary;
(b) flexible benefits (including pension arrangements);
(c) annual bonus payments; and
(d) share option incentives.
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance 
related. As described below, Executive Directors may earn annual 
incentive payments of up to 100% of their basic salary together 
with the benefits of participation in share option schemes. In 2007 
it is intended that the share option scheme will be replaced with a 
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP), for all other matters relating to 
Executive Directors’ remuneration, there is no intention to change 
the current policies.
Basic salary
An Executive Director’s basic salary is normally reviewed annually, 
and paid as a fixed cash sum monthly. The Committee, in 
determining salary adjustments, considers increased responsibilities 
such as the size of the Group, individual performance and 
contribution, and pay market pressures. As a result of the review, 
and following recommendations from the Committee, the Executive 
Directors’ salaries were increased with effect from 1 October 2005 
accordingly.
•
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 26
Di RECTORs’ REmu NERATi ON REPORT
CONTINUED
UNAUDITED INFORMATION (CONTINUED) 
Flexible benefits (including pension arrangements) 
Intec operates a flexible benefits scheme for all staff and directors, 
under which they may choose how a benefits allowance of 28% of 
salary is allocated towards a range of employee benefits, including 
holiday (10 additional days maximum) in excess of the statutory 
minimum of 20 days and voluntary contributions to a personal 
pension scheme. Any unallocated amounts will be paid monthly in 
cash. Outside of the flexible benefits scheme, all staff and Executive 
Directors are also entitled to private medical insurance and death in 
service benefit. These benefits are consistent with the preceding 
financial year.
Annual bonus payments
The directors believe that retaining a workforce which is motivated 
to achieve the Group’s objectives is fundamental to its continued 
prosperity. Accordingly, Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate in a performance related annual bonus scheme. The 
maximum potential bonus for any individual, together with the 
associated performance measures and targets, is set by the 
Committee. 
In 2006, the Executive Directors were eligible to receive a bonus of 
up to 100% of their basic salary, with an on-target bonus of 70% 
of salary. The Committee determined that for the 2006 financial 
year the target set should be Group Earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’). As the targets set were 
not met in 2006, no bonus is payable to the Executive Directors.
 
Share options
The Group operates the Intec Company Share Option Scheme 
(‘Company Scheme’) which is constituted by rules, and includes a 
section which has been approved by the Inland Revenue under the 
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (‘UK Approved Section’). 
The Remuneration Committee may select eligible employees and 
full-time directors of the Company and its participating subsidiaries, 
nominated by the directors, to receive options over ordinary shares 
in the Company.
During the year options were granted to directors amounting to an 
equivalent of 2x basic salary (divided by the current share price at 
the date of the grant). The options are exercisable over a three year 
period from the date of announcement of the 2006 results and vest 
in tranches of 20%, 30% and 50% dependent on achievement 
against key performance indicators developed by the Committee 
and the Board to ensure the long-term sustainable success of the 
Company. These key performance indicators relate specifically to:
55% of the options become exercisable on achievement of 
certain financial targets set, including organic revenue growth 
(20% of options), earnings growth (20% of options) and 
increasing the recurring revenue base of the Company (15%  
of options);
45% of the options become exercisable on achievement of 
specific targets relating to the Company’s cost base (10% of 
options); use of external contractors (15% of options) and 
success of the Company’s off-shore delivery strategy (15%  
of options); and
5% of the options become exercisable dependent upon the 
number of new contracts in the year.
•
•
•
The exercise price of all options under current option schemes is 
equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the time 
when the options were granted. The rationale behind the grant  
of such options is to incentivise as well as to strengthen the links 
between the interests of the option holders and those of the 
shareholders. Whilst the normal Association of British Insurers’ 
guidelines recommend that options are linked to performance over 
a three year period, the Company scheme is comparable to US high 
tech sector companies and such a plan is required to ensure 
international competitiveness.
However, the Committee, with the help of independent advisers, 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, will propose new long-term 
incentive arrangements for 2007, which will better align the current 
arrangements with UK best practice. These proposals will be 
presented at the Company’s Annual General Meeting for approval 
by shareholders.
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS
Details of the service contracts of those serving as Executive 
Directors at the year end are set out below: The directors’ service 
contracts are terminable on 12 months’ prior written notice by 
either party, but the Company has the option to terminate the 
agreement immediately at any time on making a payment of salary 
in lieu of the notice period. Copies of directors’ service contracts 
will be available for inspection at the AGM.
 Contract date Unexpired term Notice period
Kevin Adams 30 May 2000 Rolling 12 months
John Arbuthnott 30 May 2000 Rolling 12 months
CHAIRMAN
John Hughes served as non-executive chairman of Intec throughout 
the year. Mr Hughes has more than thirty years’ experience leading 
high technology businesses, including senior positions at Thales 
Group. Mr Hughes’ responsibilities as non-executive chairman  
focus on Board leadership, strategy, and corporate and financial 
governance. Mr Hughes’ contract provides for an annual fee of 
£190,000, payable in equal monthly instalments, together with 
private health care benefits. Mr Hughes’ appointment is terminable 
on six months’ notice by either side.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Each of the non-executive directors (Roger McDowell, Peter 
Manning, Gordon Stuart and René Kern) was engaged on letters  
of appointment. Gordon Stuart’s appointment is subject to re-
appointment by the Board at the next AGM. Appointments are 
terminable on three months’ prior written notice or in the event 
that the non-executive director ceases to be a director of the 
Company. Non-executive directors are entitled to directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance cover under any scheme established by 
the Company. Non-executive directors do not participate in share 
option or bonus schemes. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 27
In te c T e le c o m Sys te ms PLC v s .In de x (to ta lre tu rn)
0
50
100
150
200
250
Se p-0 1 M a r-0 2 Se p-02 M a r-0 3 Se p -03 M a r-04 Se p-04 M a r-05 Se p-0 5 M a r-0 6 Se p-06
Inte c FT SE Softwa re & C omp ute r Se rvic e s Ind e x
0
50
100
150
200
250
Intec Telecom Systems PLC vs. Index (total return)
Intec FTSE Software & Computer Services Index
Sep 01 Mar 02 Sep 02 Mar 03 Sep 03 Mar 04 Sep 04 Mar 05 Sep 05 Mar 06 Sep 06
Roger McDowell was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2002 and was subsequently appointed as senior  
non-executive director on 1 March 2004. He receives an annual fee of £48,000 payable in monthly instalments in arrears. In the  
event that the appointment of Roger McDowell is terminated in certain circumstances prescribed in his letter of appointment, he will  
be entitled to a notice payment of £4,000.
Peter Manning was appointed as a non-executive director on 8 April 2004. The Company has entered into a services agreement dated  
8 April 2004 with PM Networks Limited pursuant to which PM Networks Limited provides the services of Peter Manning as a non-executive 
director to the Company at an annual fee of £30,000 exclusive of VAT, and paid monthly in arrears in equal instalments. As chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, he also receives a fee of £5,000. 
Gordon Stuart was appointed as a non-executive director on 31 August 2006. He receives an annual fee of £30,000 payable monthly  
in arrears. 
Thomas Ivarson and Mike Frayne resigned as directors on 6 December 2005.
Termination of René Kern’s appointment is not subject to a notice period and he will remain a non-executive director until such time as  
the General Atlantic (GA) entities request his removal from the Board or the Board serves a written request for his resignation either due to 
the GA entities together ceasing to hold 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company or the Board reasonably considering that 
irreconcilable conflicts of interest have arisen between any other interests Mr Kern may have and the Company and its business. Mr Kern 
does not receive any fees for his position as non-executive director, nor will any provision be made for any payment upon termination of  
his appointment, nor will he be entitled to participate in any commission or profit sharing arrangements.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following graph shows the Group’s total shareholder return compared to the performance of the FTSE Software and Services Index  
for the five years ended 30 September 2006. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 28
Di RECTORs’ REmu NERATi ON REPORT
CONTINUED
AUDITED INFORMATION
Table A – Emoluments of the directors
 
 Basic  Performance *Other 2006 2005 
 salary/fees Benefits bonus payments Total Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
John Hughes 190 3 – – 193 96
Kevin Adams 295 84 – – 379 485
John Arbuthnott 195 55 – – 250 319
Roger McDowell 48 – – – 48 48
Peter Manning 35 – – – 35 25
Gordon Stuart
i
 3 – – – 3 –
Mike Frayne
ii
 6 – – 354 360 733
Thomas Ivarson
ii
 9 – – – 9 25
René Kern  – – – – – –
 781 142 – 354 1,277 1,731
i Gordon Stuart was appointed on 31 August 2006
ii M Frayne and T Ivarson resigned on 6 December 2005
* Under the terms of this agreement, the Company paid an initial payment of £110,000 to ensure Mr Frayne’s services are available for a minimum of 52 days during the 12 month 
term from the date of the agreement. A further fee at a daily rate of £2,000 was payable for each day on which Mr. Frayne provided services to the Company (or a minimum of 
52 days, if greater); £104,000 was due and payable at the end of September 2006. In addition, the Company paid a ‘compliance fee’ of £250,000 at the end of the one year 
term of the consultancy agreement making the total under other payments of £354,000.
Performance related bonuses are determined by the Board, after recommendation by the Remuneration Committee, and are based on the 
performance targets described earlier in this report. In 2006, the Group did not achieve performance levels at which bonuses became payable.
In 2005, the Company entered into a consultancy agreement with Pyrford Enterprises Limited under which Mr Frayne’s expertise remained 
committed to the Company beyond his normal duties as a then non-executive director.
Table B – Interests of the directors
The interests of the directors and their immediate families, both beneficial and non-beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the Company at  
30 September 2006 were as follows: 
     2006 2005 
     Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
Kevin Adams      3,804,516 3,595,160
John Arbuthnott     448,481 448,481
John Hughes     – –
Roger McDowell     750,000 500,000
Peter Manning     – –
Gordon Stuart     – –
René Kern     – –
     5,002,997 4,543,641
The above interests are in the ordinary share capital of the Company. None of the directors had any beneficial interest in any share capital 
of other Group companies or in any debenture of any Group company. As at 12 December 2006 there were no changes to the interests of 
the directors as stated above. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 29
Table C – Share options
Options to subscribe for or acquire ordinary shares of the Company were held by the following directors during the year:
 
  Outstanding at    Outstanding at 30 
Director Scheme 1 October 2005 Granted Exercised Lapsed September 2006 Exercise price Expiry date
Kevin Adams Approved
1
 8,451 – – – 8,451 £2.87
1/2
 June 2010
Kevin Adams Unapproved
1
 137,318 – – – 137,318 £2.05 June 2010
Kevin Adams Unapproved
1
 55,882 – – – 55,882 £1.07 March 2011
Kevin Adams Approved
1
 33,549 – (33,549)
4
 – – £0.15 March 2013
Kevin Adams Unapproved
1
 505,395 – (505,394)
4
 – 1 £0.15 March 2013
Kevin Adams Approved
1
 1,065 – – – 1,065 £0.63 March 2014
Kevin Adams Unapproved
1
 405,284 – – – 405,284 £0.63 March 2014
Kevin Adams Unapproved
2
 433,898 – – (143,186) 290,712 £0.61 June 2015
Kevin Adams Approved
3
 – 11,981 – (1,198) 10,783 £0.42 July 2016
Kevin Adams Unapproved
3
 – 1,392,780 – (139,278) 1,253,502 £0.42 July 2016
John Arbuthnott Approved
1
 7,964 – – – 7,964 £2.87
1/2
 June 2010
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
1
 65,025 – – – 65,025 £2.05 June 2010
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
1
 37,765 – – – 37,765 £1.07 March 2011
John Arbuthnott Approved
1
 41,785 – – – 41,785 £0.15 March 2013
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
1
 642,004 – – – 642,004 £0.15 March 2013
John Arbuthnott Approved
1
 1,326 – – – 1,326 £0.63 March 2014
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
1
 265,848 – – – 265,848 £0.63 March 2014
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
2
 285,288 – – (94,145) 191,143 £0.61 June 2015
John Arbuthnott Unapproved
3
 – 928,571 – (92,857) 835,714 £0.42 July 2016
1  These options have vested and are exercisable at any time. 
2  These options, granted in June 2005, have specific performance criteria based on achieving specific earnings before interest, tax and amortisation targets for each of the years 
ended/ending 30 September 2005, 2006 and 2007 in the ratio of 33%, 33% and 34%. As the performance criteria for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been achieved, 
the first tranche of 33% has vested and is exercisable from the date of announcement of results for the year ended 30 September 2005.
3  These options, granted in July 2006, have vesting criteria based on achieving specific revenue, cost and other key performance indicators for each of the years ended/ending  
30 September 2006, 2007 and 2008 in the ratio of 20%, 30% and 50%. For the year ended 30 September 2006, 50% of the first tranche of 20% have vested and they are 
exercisable from the date of announcement of results for the year ended 30 September 2006.
4 The exercise of these options generated a taxable gain of £428,769 in the year. No other director exercised any options in the year.
The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares as at 30 September 2006 was 40.75p and the high and low during the year ended  
30 September 2006 were 73.5p and 30.5p respectively. The average closing middle market price for the year was 56.4p.
PETER MANNING
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
12 December 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 30
Di RECTORs’ REPORT
ACQUISITIONS
On 8 September 2006, the Group acquired the operating assets of 
outsourced billing and business process outsourcing (BPO) specialist 
EUR Systems. The EUR assets will be added to Intec’s existing 
service bureau operations in North America, to offer a 
comprehensive suite of end-user and wholesale billing and BPO 
solutions to the North American ILEC, CLEC and IXC market.  
The consideration, funded by debt financing, was approximately 
$13.5 million (£7.1 million) before acquisition costs and is subject  
to a working capital adjustment. Further information is disclosed  
in note 4 to the accounts.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s authorised share capital at the balance sheet date 
was 450,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each of which 304,339,593 
were issued and fully paid up. 270,000 ordinary 1p shares are held 
by Intec Employee Share Trust at a cost of £2.05 each. See note 23 
for more details.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
At 1 December 2006, apart from certain directors’ interests that  
are disclosed in Table B in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the 
Company had been notified of the following substantial interests 
(3% or more) in the Company’s issued share capital:
 
  Number of Percentage of 
  ordinary shares ordinary shares 
  held held
General Atlantic Partners  77,317,947 25.42%
Morley Fund Management  14,325,156 4.71%
Invesco Perpetual Asset Management 10,890,669 3.58%
Legal & General Investment  
Management Ltd  10,421,698 3.42%
AXA Framlington  9,435,000 3.10%
Investec Bank (Mauritius) Ltd  9,400,623 3.09%
AXA Rosenberg Group  9,301,132 3.06%
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
The names of the directors at the year end are shown on pages 18 
and 19 together with brief biographical details. Full details of 
directors’ service contracts, emoluments and share interests, can  
be found in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration.
The directors who served throughout the year are disclosed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
On 6 December 2005, both Thomas Ivarson and Mike Frayne 
resigned as directors.
On 31 August 2006, Gordon Stuart was appointed as a  
non-executive director.
The directors present their report and the audited financial 
statements of the Company, Intec Telecom Systems PLC, and the 
Group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the year 
ended 30 September 2006.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT
The Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement,  
the Chief Financial Officer’s Review and the report on corporate 
governance which together include information about Intec’s 
businesses, the financial performance during the year and likely 
developments, as well as key performance indicators and the 
identification of principal risks. 
Where the Directors’ Report (including the performance highlights, 
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement, 
and the Chief Financial Officer’s Review) contain forward looking 
statements, these are made by the directors in good faith based on 
the information available to them at the time of their approval of 
this report. Consequently, such statements should be treated with 
caution due to their inherent uncertainties, including both economic 
and business risk factors, underlying such forward looking 
statements or information.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results for the year are shown in the accounts and are explained 
more fully in the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Financial 
Officer’s Review. The directors do not recommend the payment  
of a dividend (2005: £nil).
Underlying profit measure
The directors regard earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, and exceptional items as a key performance indicator. 
Profits on this basis of measurement decreased to a loss of £1.6 
million in 2006 (2005: £12.2 million). They reconcile to the total loss 
before tax of £5.3 million (2005: profit of £11.1 million) as follows:
 
  2006 2005 
  £000 £000
(Loss)/profit before tax  (5,301) 11,076
Net finance income  (717) (841)
Operating (loss)/profit  (6,018) 10,235
Exceptional expenses  3,738 1,132
Amortisation of intangible assets  2,647 1,268
Depreciation  3,259 3,690
EBITDA before exceptional items  3,626 16,325
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
The Group commits substantial resources to research and 
development activities required to ensure its products meet  
present and future market expectations. Development expenditure 
amounted to £15.2 million (2005: £16.1 million) net of expenditure 
capitalised of £0.5 million expenditure (2005: £0.6 million). ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 31
Apart from items disclosed under the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, none of the directors had a material interest in any contract 
to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during the 
financial year. The interests of the directors in the share capital of 
the Company are shown in Table B of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. The directors have the benefit of customary indemnity 
protection from the Company under its Articles of Association in 
respect of claims made against them as directors.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
It is the Group’s normal practice to make payments to suppliers  
in accordance with agreed terms provided that the supplier has 
performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions. 
Trade creditors at 30 September 2006 represented, on average  
20 days’ purchases (2005: 19 days) for the Group and 8 days’ 
purchases (2005: 15 days) for the Company.
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS
The Group made charitable contributions of £22,011 during the year 
(2005: £27,621). Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries 
made any donation for political purposes in 2006 or 2005.
EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PERSONS
It is Group policy to offer equal opportunities to disabled people, 
and to continue wherever possible the employment of staff who 
become disabled, and to offer retraining for purposes of career 
development to disabled staff. These matters are detailed in the 
Intec Staff Handbook.
 
INVOLVEMENT
The Group actively encourages all staff to share a commitment to 
the success of the business and to its operation as a responsible and 
ethical organisation. The Group supports both formal and informal 
communication between directors, managers and staff, through 
regular individual reviews, quarterly staff briefings, a private 
intranet, ‘Employee Relations Forums’ consistent with the guidelines 
suggested by the European Union, and monthly internal 
newsletters. An annual, confidential survey of staff opinions is  
also conducted. Staff have defined, confidential communications 
channels and escalation procedures to deal with any grievances or 
disciplinary matters. All new staff joining the Group receive formal 
induction training, including awareness of their obligations as 
employees of a listed company. Staff training needs are reviewed 
regularly and training provided where appropriate. A staff share 
options scheme is open to all employees, and a large proportion  
of staff are now shareholders or option holders.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
It is the Group’s policy to support and encourage environmentally 
sound business operations. Recognising that the Group’s own 
operations have minimal direct environmental impact, our policy is to:
1. Meet all statutory obligations placed on us.
2. Where sensible and practical, encourage working practices, such 
as teleconferencing, teleworking and electronic information 
exchange that reduce environmental impact.
3. Re-cycle waste products wherever possible, encourage use of 
environmentally friendly materials, and dispose safely of any 
non-recyclable materials. 
SUBSIDIARIES AND BRANCHES OUTSIDE THE UK
Full disclosure of principal subsidiaries and branches are disclosed  
in the notes to the Company accounts.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with 
explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General 
Meeting sent to all shareholders. The proxy card for registered 
shareholders is distributed with the Annual Report and Accounts. 
SECTION 234 ZA
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the 
Company at the date when this report was approved:
so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as defined in the Companies Act 1985) of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
each of the directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as a director to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information (as defined) and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in 
office and, in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 
1985, a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of  
the Board
CRAIG PRESTON ACA
Company Secretary
12 December 2006
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 32
s TATEm ENT Of Di RECTORs’ 
REs PONsibili Ti Es The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & 
Accounts. The directors have chosen to prepare accounts for the 
Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) and for the Company in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to 
prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 
requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial 
year the Company’s financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects  
of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the 
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s 
‘Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial 
•
•
•
•
Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial 
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
properly select and apply accounting policies;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having 
assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going 
concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or  
to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors’ Report  
and Directors’ Remuneration Report which comply with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
•
•
•
• ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 33
i NDEPENDENT Au Di TORs’ REPORT ON Th E 
GROu P fi NANCi Al s TATEm ENTs To the members of Intec Telecom Systems PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Intec Telecom 
Systems PLC for the year ended 30 September 2006 which 
comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
statement of recognised income and expenses, the consolidated 
balance sheet, the consolidated group cash flow statement and the 
related notes 1 to 27. These Group financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have 
also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial 
statements of Intec Telecom Systems PLC for the year ended. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are 
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial 
statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described 
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in 
our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is 
consistent with the Group financial statements. In addition we 
report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration  
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal 
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures  
or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report  
as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited Group financial statements. We 
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group 
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.  
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or 
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the 
state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2006 and of its 
loss for the year then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation; 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as 
having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the Group financial statements.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
12 December 2006
•
•
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 34
CONs Oli DATED i NCOm E s TATEm ENT
For the year ended 30 September 2006
   Before  
   exceptional  Exceptional 
   items items Total Total 
   2006 2006 2006 2005 
  Note £000 £000 £000 £000
REVENUE
Continuing operations    111,020 – 111,020 116,228
Acquisitions   1,300 – 1,300 –
TOTAL REVENUE  2 112,320 – 112,320 116,228
Cost of sales   (50,722) – (50,722) (44,597)
GROSS PROFIT    61,598 – 61,598 71,631
Distribution costs   (20,042) – (20,042) (18,600)
Administrative expenses:
 Development expenditure   (15,174) – (15,174) (16,049)
 Amortisation of intangible assets  (2,647) – (2,647) (1,571)
 Exceptional items   – (3,738) (3,738) (1,132)
 Other administrative expenses   (26,015) – (26,015) (24,044)
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES   (43,836) (3,738) (47,574) (42,796)
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT
Continuing operations    (2,391) (3,237) (5,628) 10,235
Acquisitions   111 (501) (390) –
Total operating (loss)/profit  2 (2,280) (3,738) (6,018) 10,235
Finance income  5 894 – 894 1,026
Finance costs  6 (177) – (177) (185)
(LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX  (1,563) (3,738) (5,301) 11,076
Income tax expense   9 (1,044) 93 (951) (2,024)
(LOSS)/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE  
TO EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS  (2,607) (3,645) (6,252) 9,052
(LOSS)/EARNINGS PER SHARE (PENCE)     
 – basic  10 (0.86)p (1.20)p (2.06)p 3.01p
 – diluted  10 (0.86)p (1.20)p (2.06)p 2.97p
All the results above relate to continuing activities.
CONs Oli DATED s TATEm ENT Of RECOGNis ED 
i NCOm E AND Ex PENs E
For the year ended 30 September 2006
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations   (2,889) 922
(Loss)/profit for the year     (6,252) 9,052
TOTAL RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE FOR THE PERIOD  
ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT   (9,141) 9,974 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 35
CONs Oli DATED b Al ANCE sh EET
As at 30 September 2006
     2006 2005 
    Note £000 £000
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill    11 101,924 101,486
Other intangible assets    12 14,006 6,391
Property, plant and equipment   13 7,946 6,815
Investments    14 – 6
Trade and other receivables    15 586 689
Deferred tax asset    22 1,011 630
     125,473 116,017
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables    15 47,177 56,165
Cash and cash equivalents    16 25,960 23,770
     73,137 79,935
TOTAL ASSETS     198,610 195,952
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT
Share capital     23,24 3,043 3,017
Share premium account    24 161,500 160,745
Merger reserve     24 6,768 6,768
Own shares    24 (95) (95)
Translation and other reserves    24 (1,967) 922
Retained earnings    24 (22,463) (17,712)
TOTAL EQUITY     146,786 153,645
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deferred tax liabilities    22 821 890
Other payables    17 890 577
Provisions    19 4,202 2,681
     5,913 4,148
CURRENT LIABILITIES    
Trade and other payables    17 37,130 33,370
Current tax liabilities     1,139 1,882
Bank loan and other borrowings   18 7,316 2,223
Provisions    19 326 684
     45,911 38,159
TOTAL LIABILITIES     51,824 42,307
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES    198,610 195,952
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 12 December 2006. They were signed on its 
behalf by
 
JOHN ARBUTHNOTT FCMA    KEVIN ADAMS
Chief Financial Officer    Chief Executive Officer INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 36
CONs Oli DATED CAsh fl Ow s TATEm ENT
Year ended 30 September 2006
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT     (6,018) 10,235
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    3,259 3,387
Amortisation of intangible assets    2,488 1,571
Amortisation of capitalised development expenditure   159 –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    30 1
Share-based payment expense    1,501 1,166
Increase/(decrease) in provisions    1,268 (38)
     8,705 6,087
OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL  2,687 16,322
Decrease/(increase) in receivables    10,205 (12,711)
Increase/(decrease) in payables    1,180 (2,379)
CASH GENERATED BY OPERATIONS    14,072 1,232
Income taxes paid (net)     (1,994) (1,253)
   
NET CASH GENERATED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES   12,078 (21)
   
INVESTING ACTIVITIES   
Interest received     933 942
Purchase of plant, property and equipment    (3,480) (4,819)
Purchase of intangible assets     (4,356) (1,750)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment   28 78
Expenditure on capitalised product development    (490) (649)
Acquisition of subsidiaries     (7,380) (2,004)
Net cash acquired with subsidiaries     – 74
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES    (14,745) (8,128)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES   
Interest paid     (83) (87)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments    (16) (36)
Repayment of VAT on acquisition costs    261 –
Proceeds on issue of shares     521 302
Proceeds from new bank loan     7,101 –
Repayment of other borrowings    (2,173) –
Repayments of obligations under finance leases    (62) (132)
NET CASH GENERATED FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES   5,549 47
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   2,882 (8,102)
   
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD   23,770 32,182
   
Effect of foreign exchange rates    (692) (310)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD   25,960 23,770
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and 
other short-term highly-liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 37
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Basis of accounting 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted for use in the 
European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 
Prior to 2006, the Group prepared its financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP). From 1 October 
2005, the Group is required to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and implemented in the UK. As the 2006 financial statements include comparatives for 2005, the Group’s transition date is 1 
October 2004 and the 2005 comparatives have been restated to IFRS.
The general principle that should be applied on first-time adoption of IFRS is that standards are applied with full retrospective effect. In 
accordance with IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, the Group is entitled to a number of voluntary 
and mandatory exemptions from full restatement. The Group has made the following elections:
a) As permitted by IFRS 1 and IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payments’, the Group has elected not to adjust either the income statement or the 
balance sheet for grants of share options or free shares that occurred prior to 7 November 2002, or for grants after that date which  
had vested by 1 January 2005.
b) The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations prior to the transition date have been maintained at their 
previously reported values under UK GAAP, and the requirements of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ have not been retrospectively 
applied to those business combinations.
c) The Group has elected not to restate comparative information at the transition date, and for the year to 30 September 2005, for the 
effects of adopting IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’. 
d) Under IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ some translation differences are required to be classified as a separate 
component of net equity. IFRS 1 permits a first time adopter to deem cumulative translation differences to be zero at the transition date. 
The Group has adopted this election in these financial statements.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 27.
Changes in accounting standards 
At the balance sheet date, a number of IFRS and IFRIC interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’, IFRIC 4 ‘Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease’ and the amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation  
of Financial Statements Disclosure’. The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will 
not have a significant impact on the Group’s results or its financial position.
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair 
value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company. The 
results of entities or businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition on which control passed. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
of an acquired entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of an acquired entity or business to bring their accounting policies into 
line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Segmental reporting 
The Group has one reportable operating segment, that of the development, sale, implementation and support of business/operations 
support software solutions.
 
notes to the accounts INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 38
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Business combinations 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the total of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets acquired, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued plus any costs directly 
attributable to the business combination.
The assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of 
acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
Revenue recognition and contract accounting
The Group principally derives its revenue from the sale of software licences, development projects performed for clients and fees for 
installation, consultancy, training and maintenance. Revenue is recognised on individual contracts based on the fair value of consideration 
received or receivable using the following guidelines.
Revenues from software licence agreements are recognised where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer, delivery 
of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable. Such revenue is generally recognised on a 
percentage completion basis over the period of the installation unless the licence fee and any implementation services are unbundled.
Revenue from the sale of unbundled software licences is recognised on the completion of contractual milestones or when milestones are 
unconditional. These contractual milestone obligations normally include grant of licence on signing of the contract, which coincides with 
delivery, installation of the software and customer acceptance. Thus such revenue is normally recognised prior to final customer acceptance.
Where contracts with customers require significant development to the core software, any applicable licence fees are recognised as income 
over the life of the development phase of the contract.
Fee income from consultancy, training and maintenance is recognised over the period in which the service is provided.
Revenue is stated net of any value added tax or sales related tax.
Finance income
Finance income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis.
Foreign currencies 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which is Intec Telecom Systems PLC’s functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency transactions are converted to sterling at the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. These translation differences are 
taken to the income statement. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income 
statement. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income 
statement. Differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items are recognised directly in equity. For such non-monetary items, 
any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the average rates for the year. The net assets or liabilities of overseas 
subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates. The exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets or liabilities 
and results of overseas operations are taken to equity through the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised 
as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the 
date of transition to IFRSs as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
Intangible assets – Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 39
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently where there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired. Any impairment is immediately recognised in the income statement 
and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising prior to the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount, subject to testing for 
impairment at that date.
Other intangible assets
Separately acquired intangible assets, primarily software licences, patents and trademarks are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, 
the intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation less any accumulated impairment losses. The amortisation period ranges from 
three to ten years and amortisation is based on straight-line charges over the estimated useful economic life. 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is recognised as an internally generated intangible asset only when the following criteria are met:
An asset is created that can be separately identified.
The technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it will be available for use has been achieved.
The Group has the intention to complete the asset and use or sell it.
The Group has the ability to use or sell the asset.
It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits. 
Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
If all the above tests are not met the expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
The qualifying expenditure capitalised represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset. This expenditure is capitalised 
from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the asset is in use. Asset lives are generally as follows:
Other  3–5 years
Intellectual property rights 5–10 years
Development costs 3–5 years
Software 3–5 years
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which are estimated to be between three 
and five years. 
Fixed asset investments
Investments held as fixed assets are held at cost less provision for any impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any impairment. Cost comprises the purchase price and directly 
attributable costs of the asset. Depreciation is provided on cost less estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful life of the assets. Asset lives are generally as follows:
Leasehold improvements over the lease term
Motor vehicles 3–4 years
Computer equipment 3–5 years
Furniture and equipment 3–5 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over 
the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
•
•
•
•
•
•
• INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 40
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Lease and hire purchase contracts
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases and rentals payable charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the relevant lease.
Items of property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets at their fair 
value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, at the date of inception of each lease or contract and depreciated 
over their estimated useful lives. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on 
the outstanding liability.
Impairment of assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether any  
of those assets has suffered an impairment loss. 
If impairment is indicated, then the recoverable amount is assessed to determine the extent of the impairment. Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the asset belongs. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less disposal costs and its value in use. Value in use 
calculations are performed using cash flow projections, discounted at a pre-tax rate which reflects the asset-specific risks and the time 
value of money.
To the extent that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the shortfall is immediately recognised in the income statement 
and the carrying amount reduced. 
With the exception of goodwill, where an impairment loss subsequently reverses the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount subject to the new recoverable amount not exceeding the carrying value that would have been 
in use had the initial impairment not been recognised. The reversal is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and other short-term liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts  
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a 
residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities 
and equity instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges are accounted 
for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method in the period in which they are incurred and 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 41
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The bank loan exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles  
on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy. The Group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are 
remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or recovered and is calculated 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Tax currently payable is based on 
taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. It is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is not provided on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is not probable that it will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement unless it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity in which case  
it is also charged or credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.
Provisions 
Provisions for onerous contracts, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of 
a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle that obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions comprise unexpired future lease payments, removal costs and employee termination payments. Provisions for 
restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a formal, detailed plan for the restructuring and this has been communicated to 
affected parties.
Onerous lease provisions are established on a property-by-property basis (or separable portions thereof) to meet the estimated liabilities, 
including dilapidations, of all surplus properties. The provision includes all ongoing, unavoidable costs net of any sub-letting income.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 42
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at  
1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional provisions.
The Group operates a share option scheme for its employees. The fair value of options determined at the date of grant (excluding the effect of 
non market-based vesting conditions) is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that service conditions apply, based 
on the Group’s estimate of share options that will actually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Grant price is normally equal to the market price of Group shares at the date of grant. Service conditions generally apply for between six 
months and three years. If the option remains unexercised after 10 years from the date of grant, the option expires. Options are forfeited  
if the recipient voluntarily leaves the Group before the service conditions are met.
The fair value of the share option scheme is calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Non-market conditions are included in assumptions 
around the number of options that are expected to become exercisable and these assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Proceeds received on exercise of the options are credited to equity.
Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they become due. Payments made to 
comparable state managed schemes are treated in the same way.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense that are material in amount which merit separate disclosure in order to provide an 
understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance. Examples of events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income 
and expense as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, impairment events, reorganisation of Intec’s operations, and 
reassessments of vacant property provisions.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has to make judgements on how to apply the Group’s accounting policies 
and make estimates about the future. The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements and the key areas of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are discussed below:
a) Impairment testing – Impairment testing of intangible assets involves comparing the carrying value of an asset with its value in use, 
based upon a discounted cash flow model. This model involves making assumptions, which are described in note 11.
b) Share-based payments – The value of share-based payments requires several judgements to be made. The details of these assumptions 
are disclosed in note 8.
c) Provisions – Using information available at the balance sheet date, the directors make judgements based on experience of the level  
of provision required to satisfy onerous lease and dilapidation commitments.
d) Revenue recognition – Recognition of revenue on certain contracts is determined, inter alia, by reference to the stage of completion  
of those contracts. At the balance sheet date, the directors make estimates based upon experience of the remaining costs to complete  
a contract and hence assess the proportion of the revenue to be recognised on the contract.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 43
2. PROFIT AND EXPENSES
a) Operating (loss)/profit
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
REvENUE     112,320 116,228
OThER INCOME – SUBLEASE OF PROPERTIES     807 689
EXPENSES
Wages and salaries     60,578 55,417
Social security costs     5,632 4,313
Pension costs     2,152 1,638
Share-based payments     1,501 1,166
      69,863 62,534
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 – owned assets     3,185 3,316
 – leased assets     74 72
Amortisation of intangible assets     2,488 1,571
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets     159 –
Operating lease payments
 – land and buildings     3,863 3,352
 – other     1,164 1,645
Loss on disposal of fixed assets     30 1
Loss/(profit) on foreign exchange     571 (38)
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit services
 – Deloitte & Touche LLP      572 516
 – Other auditors     6 2
Further assurance services
 – Deloitte & Touche LLP     254 35
 – Other auditors     59 –
Advisory tax services
 – Deloitte & Touche LLP     127 15
 – Other auditors     13 –
All other services
 – Deloitte & Touche LLP     86 15
 – Other auditors     2 –
Other costs     32,891 32,514
Exceptional items     3,738 1,132
      49,282 44,148
Operating (loss)/profit     (6,018) 10,235
b) Exceptional items 
In 2006, exceptional items of £3,738,000 comprise costs in respect of the Group re-organisation and integration costs, including
redundancy costs of £3,111,000 and vacant property provision of £1,075,000 offset by the successful recovery of £448,000 related  
to debts previously written off in 2002. In 2005, exceptional items comprise costs in respect of the Board restructure of £459,000 and
integration costs incurred during the period of £673,000.  INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 44
3. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The Group is organised into four key geographical segments: Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), North America, Caribbean and Latin 
America (CALA) and Asia-Pacific. These four geographical segments are the Group’s primary reporting format for segmental analysis by 
customer location.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated 
items comprise development costs, corporate assets and liabilities and expenses.
Segment information under the primary reporting format is as disclosed in the table below.
Continuing operations
   North 
  EMEA America APAC CALA Total 
  2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
REvENUE  50,646 33,275 18,854 9,545 112,320
SEGMENT PROFIT  16,017 4,408 8,214 3,676 32,315
Unallocated costs:      
 – product operations      (25,678)
 – corporate costs      (8,917)
 – exceptional items      (3,738)
Operating loss      (6,018)
Investment income      894
Finance charges      (177)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax     (5,301)
Taxation      (951)
Loss for the period      (6,252)
  North 
 EMEA America APAC CALA Unallocated Total 
 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
OThER INFORMATION
Capital additions 1,841 846 593 9 4,719 8,008
Depreciation and amortisation 2,015 1,558 746 95 1,492 5,906
ASSETS      
Segment assets 34,786 32,553 8,089 4,446 118,736 198,610
LIABILITIES      
Segment liabilities 22,207 22,543 4,209 1,500 1,365 51,824
Unallocated segment assets principally comprise goodwill and other intangible assets.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 45
3. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
Continuing operations
   North 
  EMEA America APAC CALA Total 
  2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
REvENUE  53,928 41,420 13,315 7,565 116,228
SEGMENT PROFIT  18,390 15,809 6,721 2,038 42,958
Unallocated costs:      
 – product operations      (21,787)
 – corporate costs      (9,804)
 – exceptional items      (1,132)
Operating profit      10,235
Investment income      1,026
Finance charges      (185)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax      11,076
Taxation      (2,024)
Profit for the period      9,052
  North 
 EMEA America APAC CALA Unallocated Total 
 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
OThER INFORMATION      
Capital additions 3,692 981 615 60 1,295 6,643
Depreciation and amortisation 2,184 1,468 523 36 747 4,958
      
ASSETS      
Segment assets 44,831 32,635 7,059 2,803 108,624 195,952
      
LIABILITIES      
Segment liabilities 21,530 12,646 3,668 507 3,956 42,307
Revenue by type
Additional disclosures on revenue by type is set out below. 
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
LICENCE REvENUE     16,502 25,378
PROFESSIONAL SERvICES INCOME     48,838 45,905
RECURRING INCOME:   
 ASP Service     7,675 7,662
 Volume upgrade licences     7,309 6,236
 Support and maintenance fees     31,996 31,047
      46,980 44,945
      112,320 116,228
The directors consider that the Group operates in one continuing class of business, namely that of the development, sale, implementation 
and support of business/operations support software solutions. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 46
4. ACQUISITIONS
a) Current year acquisitions – EUR Systems
On 1 September 2006, the Group acquired the operating assets of outsourced billing and business process outsourcing (BPO) specialist  
EUR Systems. The total consideration, funded by debt finance and settled in cash, amounted to US$13.4 million plus acquisition costs of 
$0.3 million. Under the acquisition agreement there is a potential working capital adjustment, which has yet to be finalised and which  
may affect the total purchase price. The fair value adjustments represent the estimated provisional fair value of intangible assets acquired.
The net assets acquired in the transaction, and the goodwill arising, are as follows:
    Net book Fair value Provisional 
    value adjustments fair value 
Net assets at date of acquisition and provisional fair value    £000 £000 £000
Intangible assets    – 5,233 5,233
Property plant and equipment    1,613 – 1,613
Trade and other receivables    3,818 – 3,818
Deferred income    (241) – (241)
Trade and other payables    (3,508) – (3,508)
Net assets acquired    1,682 5,233 6,915
Goodwill arising on acquisition      381
       7,296
Consideration paid in cash      7,158
Acquisition costs      138
Total consideration paid in cash      7,296
NET CASh OUTFLOw ARISING ON ACQUISITION:    
Consideration paid in cash      7,296
Cash and cash equivalents acquired      –
       7,296
As the acquisition is of certain operating assets and liabilities of EUR Systems, it is impracticable to determine the effect had the acquisition 
occurred on 1 October 2005.
b) Reconciliation to cash flow statement – current and prior year acquisitions
      £000
Total EUR consideration paid in cash      7,296
Additional acquisition costs for Singl.eView      84
       7,380
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 47
4. ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED)
c) Prior year acquisitions – Telmate
On 29 October 2004, the Group acquired Telmate ApS (Denmark) which provides software for the management and routing optimisation 
of wholesale telecoms traffic. The total consideration payable was £1.96 million including acquisition costs of £51,000. Under IFRS, the 
software was valued at £2.8 million and this has been recognised as an intangible asset together with the associated deferred tax liability 
of £0.9 million. The intangible asset is being amortised over a period of five years.
The net assets acquired in the transaction are as follows:
     Net book  Fair value   
    value adjustments Fair value 
Net assets at date of acquisition    £000 £000 £000
Intangible asset    – 2,836 2,836
Property, plant and equipment    7 – 7
Trade receivables    132 – 132
Cash and cash equivalents    74 – 74
Deferred income    (37) – (37)
Deferred tax liability    – (851) (851)
Trade payables    (201) – (201)
Net assets acquired    (25) 1,985 1,960
Cash consideration paid      1,909
Acquisition costs      51
       1,960
5. FINANCE INCOME
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Interest receivable and similar income     894 1,026
6. FINANCE EXPENSE
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Bank interest and other charges     47 15
Finance lease interest      24 44
Loan interest     106 126
Total     177 185 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 48
7. STAFF NUMBERS
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) is shown below.
     2006 2005 
     No. No. 
Implementation, support and consulting     982 794
Sales and marketing     139 147
Development and product      325 322
Management and administrative (including executive directors)     186 175
      1,632 1,438
Key management remuneration
Key management personnel, as defined by IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, have been identified as the Board of Directors. Details of  
the Board of Directors’ remuneration, including their beneficial interest in the share capital and share options, are shown in the Report  
on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 25 to 29. Summary information is as follows:
     2006 2005 
     No. No. 
Short-term employee benefits     923 1,328
Share-based payments     150 199
Compensation for loss of office     – 293
Other payments     354 110
      1,427 1,930
8. ShARE-BASED PAYMENT
The Group’s share-based payment plans are described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which also details the applicable terms  
and conditions. The Group’s share-based payment arrangements are entirely equity settled, and resulted in an expense for the year  
of £1,501,000 (2005: 1,166,000).
The Group operates a UK Approved and Unapproved Share Option Scheme and a US Stock Option Plan for the benefit of directors  
and employees. Details of the outstanding share options are disclosed in the table below:
      
 weighted average 
 exercise price (£) 
 
Number
    2006 2005 2006 2005
Outstanding at beginning of period   0.66 0.63 24,770,900 18,084,435
Granted   0.42 0.61 13,559,416 11,050,909
Forfeited   0.66 0.64 (4,371,175) (2,421,530)
Exercised   0.20 0.16 (2,601,024) (1,942,914)
Outstanding at end of period   0.59 0.66 31,358,117 24,770,900
Exercisable at end of period   0.76 0.78 12,825,123 11,303,863
Included in the table above are 6,176,308 (2005: 6,804,479) share options outstanding at 30 September granted before 7 November 2002 
which have been excluded from the share-based payments charge in accordance with the IFRS 2 transitional provisions.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2006 at the date of exercise was 56.4p per share with the price of each 
option ranging from 15.0p to 70.5p. In 2005 the weighted average share price for options exercised at date of exercise was 63.2p per share 
with the price of each option ranging from 15.0p to 70.5p per share.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 49
8. ShARE-BASED PAYMENT (CONTINUED)
The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding at the end of the year is shown below.
 Outstanding Exercisable
   weighted average  weighted average  weighted average 
2006  remaining life (years) Number exercise price (£) Number exercise price (£)
Range of exercise prices
£0.15–£0.60  9.3 15,544,933 0.38 2,557,654 0.15
£0.61–£1.00  7.4 14,090,806 0.66 8,545,091 0.69
£1.01–£3.40 4.0 1,722,378 2.05 1,722,378 2.05
 8.1 31,358,117 0.59 12,825,123 0.76
 Outstanding Exercisable
   Weighted average  Weighted average  Weighted average 
2005  remaining life (years) Number exercise price (£) Number exercise price (£)
Range of exercise prices
£0.15–£0.60  7.5 4,919,037 0.15 3,246,565 0.15
£0.61–£1.00  8.5 17,919,000 0.65 6,124,435 0.71
£1.01–£3.40 5.0 1,932,863 2.04 1,932,863 2.04
  8.0 24,770,900 0.66 11,303,863 0.78
In 2006, options were granted on 21 July 2006. In 2005 options were granted on 22 November 2004 and 6 June 2005. 
The fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility was based upon the historic volatility of 
Intec’s shares over a period of up to three years before grant date and adjusted for items such as periods of exceptional volatility between 
June 2000 and March 2003. The following table shows the fair values calculated and the assumptions made to derive those fair values for 
options granted during the years ended 30 September 2005 and 30 September 2006.
     2006 2005
Weighted average fair value     20.7p 30.8p
Weighted average share price     42.0p 61.2p
Weighted average exercise price     42.0p 61.2p
Expected volatility     49% 50%
Expected life of option     5 years 5 years
Risk free interest rate     4.9% 4.8%
The share-based payment charge assumes future employee attrition at the rate of 8% per year based on historical experience. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 50
9. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
The charge for the year comprises:
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Current taxation:
UK Corporation tax at 30% (2005: 30%)      – –
Foreign tax     1,935 1,957
      1,935 1,957
Adjustments in respect of prior years:
UK Corporation tax     (859) –
Foreign tax     385 (111)
      (474) (111)
Total current tax expense     1,461 1,846
Deferred taxation:
UK     – (6)
Foreign     (510) 184
Total deferred taxation     (510) 178
Total income tax expense     951 2,024
Corporation tax is calculated at 30% (2005: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before tax     (5,301) 11,076
Tax on Group profit at standard UK Corporation tax rate of 30% (2005: weighted average rate 28%)   (1,590) 3,101
Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income (net)     (526) (378)
Utilisation of tax losses     (848) (5,064)
Unutilised other tax losses     4,704 3,007
Other temporary differences     (613) 577
Withholding taxes     260 854
Higher rates of foreign tax     39 38
Adjustments to current tax expense in respect of previous periods     (475) (111)
Total amount of current tax     951 2,024
The standard rate of current tax for the year is 30% (2005: 28%) based on the weighted average tax rates of the major jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates, based on the tax rate applicable in the country of residence of the parent company and one of the main trading 
companies of the Group.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 51
10. (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER ShARE
Continuing operations
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
(Loss)/profit for the year – basic and diluted     (6,252) 9,052
Reconciliation:
(Loss)/profit for the year – basic and diluted     (6,252) 9,052
After tax effect of exceptional items      3,645 1,132
(Loss)/profit for the year – before exceptional items     (2,607) 10,184
     Number Number 
     000 000
Weighted average number of shares – basic     302,952 300,623
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares     – 4,103
Weighted average number of shares – diluted     302,952 304,726
     Pence Pence
(Loss)/earnings per share – basic     (2.06) 3.01
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares     – (0.04)
(Loss)/earnings per share – diluted     (2.06) 2.97
(Loss)/earnings per share – basic     (2.06) 3.01
Exceptional items     1.20 0.38
(Loss)/earnings per share before exceptional items – basic     (0.86) 3.39
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares     – (0.04)
(Loss)/earnings per share before exceptional items – diluted     (0.86) 3.35
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The average number of shares outstanding excludes those held in trust by the Group, which 
are treated as cancelled.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis as the basic earnings per share with a further adjustment to the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding to reflect the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The number of dilutive potential 
ordinary shares is derived from the number of share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market 
price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. As the Group made a loss for the year, none of the share options are included in 
the calculation of diluted earnings per share for 2006.
In 2005, 6,804,479 share options are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the option exercise price exceeded the 
average price of the Company’s shares during the year.
Earnings per share before exceptional items has been calculated and disclosed above as the directors consider it provides an additional 
indication of underlying trading performance. Exceptional items do not have a material tax impact. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 52
11. GOODwILL
      Provisional 
      goodwill 
      £000
COST
At 1 October 2004      102,401
Additions      45
Adjustments to fair values      (960)
At 1 October 2005      101,486
Additions      438
At 30 September 2006      101,924
NET BOOK vALUE
At 30 September 2006      101,924
At 30 September 2005      101,486
IFRS require that goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units (‘CGU’) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU (including goodwill) is compared with the recoverable 
amount of the CGU. The recoverable amount is determined by reference to its value in use.
The Group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model. The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the asset and 
discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7.98% (2005: 8.4%). This discount rate is derived from the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management and cover a period of 
12 months. The key assumptions used in the impairment testing are revenue, operating margin (and hence profit before interest and 
taxation), discount rates and rates of growth in the CGU beyond the 12 month planning period.
The cash flow forecasts reflect management’s expectations of revenue growth and operating margin, based upon signed orders, identified 
prospects for contract extensions or renewals with existing customers, together with expectations of work to be sold to new clients. The 
forecasts are most sensitive to changes in projected revenue growth rates in the first year of the forecast period which are based on the 
2007 budget. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated based on growth rates for each CGU in a range of 0% to 6% (2005: 2.0%).
Goodwill is not amortised, but is instead subject to impairment testing annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill 
might be impaired.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 53
12. OThER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
   Intellectual Development   
  Other property rights costs Software Total 
  £000 £000  £000 £000 £000
COST
At 1 October 2004  – 2,011 – 9,125 11,136
Additions  – 2,835 649 1,152 4,636
Disposals  – – – (424) (424)
Translation differences  – (1) – 715 714
At 1 October 2005  – 4,845 649 10,568 16,062
Acquired  4,913 – – 320 5,233
Additions  – – 490 4,604 5,094
Disposals  – – – (3,525) (3,525)
Translation differences  – (3) – (1,495) (1,498)
At 30 September 2006  4,913 4,842 1,139 10,472 21,366
ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION
At 1 October 2004  – 953 – 6,613 7,566
Amortisation  – 722 – 849 1,571
Disposals  – – – (420) (420)
Translation differences  – – – 954 954
At 1 October 2005  – 1,675 – 7,996 9,671
Amortisation  – 702 159 1,786 2,647
Disposals  – – – (3,525) (3,525)
Translation differences  – – – (1,433) (1,433)
At 30 September 2006  – 2,377 159 4,824 7,360
NET BOOK vALUE
At 30 September 2006  4,913 2,465 980 5,648 14,006
At 30 September 2005  – 3,170 649 2,572 6,391
Other intangible assets acquired are the estimated fair value allocated to customer lists, trade names and trademarks arising on acquisition 
of the EUR Systems’ business. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 54
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
  Furniture and Leasehold Computer Motor  
  equipment improvements equipment vehicles Total 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
COST
At 1 October 2004  3,308 3,579 12,638 53 19,578
Additions   536 1,873 2,337 96 4,842
Disposals  (230) (273) (2,047) (69) (2,619)
Translation differences  643 180 392 12 1,227
At 1 October 2005  4,257 5,359 13,320 92 23,028
Acquired in year   66 46 1,496 5 1,613
Additions   273 816 1,800 25 2,914
Disposals  (953) (1,243) (2,569) (37) (4,802)
Translation differences  (492) (371) (1,315) (3) (2,181)
At 30 September 2006  3,151 4,607 12,732 82 20,572
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 
At 1 October 2004  2,658 2,350 9,502 49 14,559
Charge for year   632 584 2,164 8 3,388
Disposals  (226) (262) (1,761) (11) (2,260)
Translation differences  375 164 (25) 12 526
At 1 October 2005  3,439 2,836 9,880 58 16,213
Charge for year   423 565 2,259 12 3,259
Disposals  (993) (1,189) (2,565) (16) (4,763)
Translation differences  (478) (339) (1,264) (2) (2,083)
At 30 September 2006  2,391 1,873 8,310 52 12,626
NET BOOK vALUE
At 30 September 2006  760 2,734 4,422 30 7,946
At 30 September 2005  818 2,523 3,440 34 6,815
The net book value of computer software and equipment includes an amount of £533,000 (2005: £118,000) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases.
14. FIXED ASSET INvESTMENTS
      £000
COST
At 1 October 2005 and 2004      152
Disposals      (152)
At 30 September 2006      –
PROvISION
At 1 October 2005 and 2004      146
Disposals      (146)
At 30 September 2006      –
NET BOOK vALUE
At 30 September 2006      –
At 30 September 2005      6
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 55
15. TRADE AND OThER RECEIvABLES
    
 Non-current Current
   2006 2005 2006 2005 
   £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables   – – 30,211 29,585
Corporation tax   – – 329 329
Overseas tax   – – 104 141
Other receivables   – – 1,560 286
Prepayments   586 689 4,440 4,798
Accrued income   – – 10,533 21,026
    586 689 47,177 56,165
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. The Group’s credit risk on 
trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables and accrued income. The amounts presented in the table above are 
net of allowances for doubtful recoverability and foreseeable losses. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk since the risk 
is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties. Debtor days were 99 days (2005: 93 days).
Non-current prepayments primarily relate to deposits on leased properties due after more than five years.
16. CASh AND CASh EQUIvALENTS
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand     25,719 14,822
Short-term bank deposits     241 8,948
      25,960 23,770
At 30 September 2006 short-term bank deposits have a weighted average period to maturity of 30 days.
The table below sets out the currency denominations of cash and cash equivalents.
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Sterling     3,664 11,102
US dollar     15,584 6,575
Euro     1,366 1,287
Australian dollar     344 1,232
South African rand     2,573 1,867
Brazilian real     1,256 562
Other     1,173 1,145
      25,960 23,770
17. TRADE AND OThER PAYABLES
    
 Non-current Current
   2006 2005 2006 2005 
   £000 £000 £000 £000
Obligations under finance leases (note 25)   235 62 339 70
Trade payables    – – 3,767 3,837
Other payables    655 515 6,227 3,216
Accruals   – – 9,982 10,422
Deferred revenue   – – 16,815 15,825
    890 577 37,130 33,770
Trade and other payables comprise trade purchases and ongoing costs and are predominantly interest free. The directors consider that the 
carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. Creditors days were 20 (2005: 19). INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 56
18. BANK LOAN AND OThER BORROwINGS
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Bank loan     7,209 –
Other borrowings     107 2,223
Total     7,316 2,223
The Group has a bank loan of $13.5 million (£7.2 million) raised on 20 September 2006 which was used to fund the acquisition of the EUR 
Systems business. The loan is secured over the fixed and floating assets of the Group and attracts interest at a rate of 4.29% which is 
based on the LIBOR rate (at the date of drawdown) plus 0.75%. This rate is fixed for a period of 12 months from the date the funds were 
received. The loan is repayable on demand. 
The other borrowings relate to a loan of $4 million from ADC Telecommunications, Inc. (the previous owners of the Singl.eView business) 
which was repaid during the year. The outstanding balance relates to interest accruals which are subject to final settlement. The loan attracted 
interest at a variable annual rate equal to the ‘prime’ rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, New York edition and the weighted average 
rate during the year up to the date of repayment was 7.51% (2005: 5.68%). The fair value of the loan equates to its book value.
The table below sets out the currency denominations of the Group’s borrowings at 30 September 2006.
    US dollar Other Total 
    £000 £000 £000
Bank loan    7,209 – 7,209
Other borrowing    107 – 107
Finance leases    361 213 574
Total    7,677 213 7,890
19. PROvISIONS 
   Onerous lease Lease Other  
   commitments incentives provisions Total 
Group   £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2005   1,848 908 609 3,365
Charged to the income statement   556 881 506 1,943
Utilised/paid   (371) (28) (299) (698)
Translation differences   (23) (39) (20) (82)
At 30 September 2006    2,010 1,722 796 4,528
ANALYSED AS:    
Current liabilities   236 90 – 326
Non-current liabilities   1,774 1,632 796 4,202
Onerous lease commitments disclosed above relate to future estimated losses on sub-let or vacant lease commitments acquired with  
the Digiquant and Singl.eView businesses where the lease commitment is expected to be greater than any sub-lease income. Amounts 
provided relate to the period up to the first option to break on a property in Denmark and properties acquired with the Singl.eView 
acquisition. The first option to break for the Denmark property is in 2011 and accordingly the provision above includes the discounted  
fair value of the future lease rental shortfalls up to this point.
Lease incentives relate to rent-free periods on certain properties leased within the Group or other incentives which are being spread over 
the term of the lease. The provision is expected to be utilised over the lives of the individual leases, the longest of which expires in 2014.
Other provisions disclosed above relate to future estimated costs to complete certain ongoing legal matters in respect of Singl.eView, a 
potential repayment of a grant previously received by Singl.eView. Opening balances have been reclassified based on a review of the 
allocation of certain balances.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 57
20. DERIvATIvE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group has elected to apply the exemption available under IFRS 1 not to present comparative information, and to apply IAS 32 and IAS 
39 prospectively from 1 October 2005. Accordingly the 2005 comparatives have been presented in accordance with UK GAAP standard 
FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ (note 21).
An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to financial instruments in general is set out in the 
Treasury management and policy section of the Financial Review.
The Group does not have any derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2006.
 2006 
 Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) 
   Sterling Euro related US dollars Other 
Functional currency   £000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling   – 2,305 3,313 321
Euro related   (18) – 393 31
US dollars   4,658 2,729 – 33
Other    – – 1,986 –
TOTAL   4,640 5,034 5,692 385
 
 2005 
 Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) 
   Sterling Euro related US Dollars Other 
Functional currency   £000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling   – 3,405 3,648 69
Euro related   (9) – 1,171 –
US dollars   4,841 1,424 – 341
Other    42 526 (253) 5
TOTAL   4,874 5,355 4,567 415
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (2005 DISCLOSURES IN ACCORDANCE wITh UK GAAP)
Financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39 as from 1 October 2005. The transitional provisions require 
the presentation of one year of comparative information, but this information need not comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39. The information 
disclosed below is therefore presented under UK GAAP standard FRS 13.
As permitted by FRS 13, short-term debtors and creditors have been omitted from the disclosure of financial assets and financial liabilities.
As at 30 September 2005, the Group’s financial instruments comprised some cash and liquid resources and various monetary items, such as 
trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise working 
capital for the Group’s operations.
The only financial liabilities subject to variable interest rates as disclosed in note 18 where maturity details are also disclosed.
At present, the Group does not enter into significant forward foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments as hitherto the 
related exposures are not material to the Group and do not warrant such complexity. 
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2005 are equal to their carrying value except for the long-term 
lease rental deposits for which the fair value is £408,000 (2005: £470,000) compared to the carrying value of £586,000 (2005: £689,000).
Currency profile of net monetary assets
The table shows the Group’s currency profile, which gives rise to net currency gains or losses recognised in the income statement. These 
comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group which are not denominated in the functional currency of the operation involved.
As the Group has no derivative instruments, there were no hedging gains or losses at the start of the year, carried forward at the end of 
the year or recognised in the year ended 30 September 2005.
      Sterling 
      2005 
Functional currency      £000
Euro      5,355
US dollars      4,567
Sterling      4,874
Other       415
       15,211 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 58
22. DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and 
prior reporting period.
 Accelerated  Deferred     
 tax Intangible development   Temporary  
 depreciation costs costs Tax losses Holiday pay differences Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2004 – – – – 12 266 278
Acquisition of subsidiary – (851) – – – – (851)
Credit/(charge) to income – 156 (195) 385 6 (49) 303
Translation differences – – – – – 10 10
At 1 October 2005 – (695) (195) 385 18 227 (260)
Credit/(charge) to income 60 170 (99) (385) (18) 782 510
Translation differences – – – – – (60) (60)
At 30 September 2006 60 (525) (294) – – 949 190
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes.
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Deferred tax liabilities     (821) (890)
Deferred tax assets     1,011 630
      190 (260)
Deferred tax assets not recognised
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Income losses carried forward     27,105 27,989
Intangible amortisation     22,403 26,789
Temporary differences     8,473 3,041
      57,981 57,189
Deferred tax assets in respect of future intangible asset amortisation, losses carried forward and other temporary differences in certain 
companies have not been recognised because at present it is not envisaged that there will be sufficient taxable profits in those companies 
to absorb these reliefs. The unutilised reliefs may be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings of £12,416,000 (2005: £9,917,000) of certain overseas 
subsidiaries. No provision is required as the Group is in a position to control the timing of remittances and consequently the reversal of 
these differences. The Group has no chargeable gains rolled over or held over. 
23. CALLED UP ShARE CAPITAL
     
 2006 2005
    Number £000 Number £000
AUThORISED: 
Ordinary shares of 1p each    450,000,000 4,500 450,000,000 4,500
ALLOTTED, CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID: 
Ordinary shares of 1p each    304,339,593 3,043 301,745,646 3,017
The increase in allotted share capital relates to share options exercised during the year.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 59
23. CALLED UP ShARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
Substantial shareholdings 
Details of substantial interests in the Company’s issued share capital received by the Company at 5 October 2006 under the provisions of 
the Companies Act 1985 have been disclosed in the substantial shareholdings section of the Directors’ Report.
Share options exercised 
During the year 2,593,947 ordinary shares were issued at prices between 15.0p and 70.5p under the UK Approved and Unapproved Share 
Option Scheme and the US Stock Option Plan.
Share options 
As at 30 September 2006, there were options outstanding in respect of all schemes of 31,358,117 (2005: 23,719,991. The options are to 
acquire ordinary share of 1.0p each. They are exercisable in the period between now and July 2016 at prices ranging from 15.0p to 340.0p. 
Further details are provided in note 8.
Own shares 
Own shares are held by the Intec Employee Share Trust. The Trust currently holds 270,000 shares in the Company at an original cost of 
£2.05 each. The written down value of the shareholding is £95,000. This amount has been deducted from shareholders’ equity in 
accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
24. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF ChANGES IN EQUITY
 
  Issued    Foreign Profit 
  share Share Merger Own exchange and loss Total 
Group  capital premium reserve shares reserve account equity
Balance at 1 October 2004  2,998 160,462 6,768 (95) – (27,930) 142,203
Exchange differences arising on  
translation of foreign operations  – – – – 922 – 922
Profit for the year  – – – – – 9,052 9,052
Total recognised income and  
expense for the period  – – – – 922 9,052 9,974
Issue of share capital net of  
share issue expenses  19 283 – – – – 302
Recognition of share-based payments  – – – – – 1,166 1,166
Balance at 1 October 2005  3,017 160,745 6,768 (95) 922 (17,712) 153,645
Exchange differences arising on  
translation of foreign operations  – – – – (2,889) – (2,889)
Loss for the year  – – – – – (6,252) (6,252)
Total recognised income and  
expense for the period  – – – – (2,889) (6,252) (9,141)
Issue of share capital net of  
share issue expenses  26 494 – – – – 520
VAT recovered on previous  
share issue expenses – 261 – – – – 261
Recognition of share-based payments – – – – – 1,501 1,501
30 September 2006  3,043 161,500 6,768 (95) (1,967) (22,463) 146,786
Merger reserve 
The merger reserve arises as a result of applying Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 to the acquisition of the Digiquant Group in 2003.
Own shares 
Own shares are held by the Intec Employee Share Trust. The trust currently holds 270,000 shares in the Company at a cost of £2.05 each. 
The written down value of the shareholding is £95,000.
Foreign exchange reserve 
The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets and results of foreign 
subsidiaries arising after 1 October 2004. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 60
25. COMMITMENTS
a) Operating lease arrangements – Group as lessee 
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating leases for various leasehold properties, computing and other equipment. Principally 
the leases relate to the rental of properties, some of which have periodic rent reviews. Certain other leases have renewal rights.
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year    5,027 4,997
The future minimum lease payments expected to be made are as follows:
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Leases which expire:
Within one year     5,094 5,280
In the second to fifth years inclusive     13,329 12,218
After five years      10,461 10,703
      28,884 28,201
b) Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of computer and other equipment, some of which have renewal 
and purchase options. Future minimum lease payments together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
    
  Present value of minimum  
 Minimum lease payments lease payments
   2006 2005 2006 2005 
   £000 £000 £000 £000
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER FINANCE LEASES
Within one year   367 75 339 70
In the second to fifth years inclusive   249 65 235 62
    615 140 574 132
Less future finance charges   (42) (8) – –
Present value of lease obligations   574 132 574 132
Less amount due for settlement within 12 months     (339) (70)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months     235 62
The average effective borrowing rate was 7.9% (2005: 4.2%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed 
repayment basis and no arrangements have been made for contingent rental payments. Lease obligations are denominated in US dollars, 
Danish kroner and South African rand. The fair value of the lease obligations approximates their carrying value. The lease obligations under 
finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
c) Bonds and guarantees 
The Group has entered into guarantees and cross-guarantee arrangements in favour of several banks, in respect of the financial obligations 
arising from the provision of banking facilities to UK and some overseas subsidiaries within the Group. The total amounts outstanding as at 
30 September 2006, relating to these obligations, was £0.5 million (2005: £1.1 million).
d) Contingent liability 
In the normal course of business the Group has received a number of enquiries from tax authorities around the world relating to its 
operations. These include enquiries raised by the Australian tax authorities in relation to transfer pricing. Management is confident that all 
such enquiries will be resolved satisfactorily and in particular that the transfer pricing arrangements relating to Australia are supportable 
and appropriate.
26. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Board is not aware of any related party transactions that should be disclosed apart from the details of key management remuneration 
which are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 61
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS
The following tables show the impact of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS, and reconcile the balance sheet position as at the date of 
transition to IFRS (1 October 2004), and the income statement and balance sheet at the date of the last annual report and accounts 
reported under UK GAAP (30 September 2005).
a) Reconciliation summary of equity and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS
     2005 2005 
Reconciliation of profit for the year    Notes £000 Basic EPS
Loss after taxation under UK GAAP     (6,025) (2.00)
IFRS adjustments:
Goodwill amortisation and impairment    (i) 16,166 5.36
Intangible amortisation    (ii) (520) (0.17)
Capitalised development costs    (iii) 649 0.22
Share-based payments    (iv) (1,166) (0.38)
Holiday pay    (v) (19) (0.01)
Deferred taxation    (vi) (33) (0.01)
      15,077 5.01
      9,052 3.01
      1 October 2004 
     2005 (transition date) 
Reconciliation of equity    Notes £000 £000
Equity under UK GAAP     137,429 142,230
Goodwill amortisation    (i) 16,166 –
Intangible amortisation    (ii) (520) –
Capitalised development costs    (iii) 649 –
Share-based payments charged to income statement
– charged to income statement    (iv) (1,166) (321)
– charged in relation to prior period    (iv) (321) –
– credited to retained earnings    (iv) 1,487 321
Holiday pay
– charge to income statement    (v) (19) (39)
– charge in relation to prior period    (v) (39) –
Deferred taxation
– (charge)/credit to income statement    (vi) (33) 12
– credit in relation to prior period    (vi) 12 –
Transfer from foreign exchange reserve to retained earnings     (1,854) (1,854)
IFRS ADjUSTMENTS ON RETAINED EARNINGS     14,362 (1,881)
IFRS adjustment to translation reserve     1,854 1,854
NET ChANGE TO EQUITY     16,216 (27)
EQUITY UNDER IFRS     153,645 142,203 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 62
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS (CONTINUED)
b) Reconciliation of balance sheet at 1 October 2004 (date of transition to IFRS)
     Effect of 
   Note (v) Note (vii) transition  
  UK GAAP Holiday pay Reclass. to IFRS IFRS 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill  102,401 – – – 102,401
Other intangible assets  1,058 – 1,214 1,214 2,272
Property, plant and equipment  7,530 – (1,214) (1,214) 6,316
Trade and other receivables  583 – – – 583
Deferred tax asset  266 12 – 12 278
Investments  6 – – – 6
   111,844 12 – 12 111,856
CURRENT ASSETS     
Trade and other receivables  39,785 – – – 39,785
Cash and cash equivalents  32,182 – – – 32,182
   71,967 – – – 71,967
TOTAL ASSETS  183,811 12 – 12 183,823
     
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital   2,998 – – – 2,998
Share premium account   160,462 – – – 160,462
Merger reserve   6,768 – – – 6,768
Own shares  (95) – – – (95)
Translation and other reserves  (1,854) – 1,854 1,854 –
Retained earnings  (26,049) (27) (1,854) (1,881) (27,930)
TOTAL EQUITY  142,230 (27) – (27) 142,203
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank loan and other borrowings  2,223 – – – 2,223
Deferred tax liabilities  – – – – –
Other payables  594 – – – 594
Provisions  3,403 – (1,597) (1,597) 1,806
   6,220 – (1,597) (1,597) 4,623
CURRENT LIABILITIES     
Trade and other payables  35,361 39 – 39 35,400
Provisions  – – 1,597 1,597 1,597
   35,361 39 1,597 1,636 36,997
TOTAL LIABILITIES  41,581 39 – 39 41,620
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  183,811 12 – 12 183,823
The UK GAAP numbers have been reclassified to conform to the new IFRS format.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 63
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS (CONTINUED)
c) Reconciliation of balance sheet at 30 September 2005, the date of the last annual financial statements prepared under UK GAAP
  Notes (i)–(vi), Note (ii)    
  IFRS impact Recognition of  Note (vii), (viii) Effect of  
  UK GAAP on profit intangible Reclass. transition to IFRS IFRS 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill  87,305 16,166 (1,985) – 14,181 101,486
Other intangible assets  854 129 2,836 2,572 5,537 6,391
Property, plant and equipment  9,387 – – (2,572) (2,572) 6,815
Trade and other receivables  689 – – – – 689
Deferred tax asset  612 18 – – 18 630
Investments  6 – – – – 6
  98,853 16,313 851 – 17,164 116,017
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables  56,165 – – – – 56,165
Cash and cash equivalents  23,770 – – – – 23,770
  79,935 – – – – 79,935
TOTAL ASSETS 178,788 16,313 851 – 17,164 195,952
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital   3,017 – – – – 3,017
Share premium account   160,745 – – – – 160,745
Merger reserve   6,768 – – – – 6,768
Own shares  (95) – – – – (95)
Translation and other reserves  (932) – – 1,854 1,854 922
Retained earnings  (32,074) 16,216 – (1,854) 14,362 (17,712)
TOTAL EQUITY  137,429 16,216 – – 16,216 153,645
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deferred tax liabilities  – 39 851 – 890 890
Other payables  577 – – – – 577
Provisions  3,365 – – (684) (684) 2,681
  3,942 39 851 (684) 206 4,148
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables  35,194 58 – – 58 35,252
Bank loan and other borrowings  2,223 – – – – 2,223
Provisions  – – – 684 684 684
  37,417 58 – 684 742 38,159
TOTAL LIABILITIES 41,359 97 851 – 948 42,307
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  178,788 16,313 851 – 17,164 195,952 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 64
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS (CONTINUED)
d) Income statement reconciliation for the year ended 30 September 2005, the period reported in the last annual financial 
statements prepared under UK GAAP
    Share-based Other IFRS  Effect of  
   UK GAAP payments adjustments Reclass. transition to IFRS IFRS 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
REvENUE  116,228 – – – – 116,228
      
Cost of sales  (44,101) (496) – – (496) (44,597)
GROSS PROFIT   72,127 (496) – – (496) 71,631
      
Distribution costs  (18,393) (207) – – (207) (18,600)
      
Administrative expenses:      
Development expenditure  (16,512) (186) 649 – 463 (16,049)
Amortisation of intangible assets  (16,368) – 15,646 (849) 14,797 (1,571)
Reorganisation and  
integration expenses  (1,132) – – – – –
Other administrative expenses   (24,597) (277) (19) 849 553 (24,044)
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIvE  
EXPENSES   (58,609) (463) 16,276 – 15,813 (42,796)
      
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT  (4,875) (1,166) 16,276 – 15,110 10,235
      
Finance income  1,026 – – – – 1,026
Finance costs  (185) – – – – (185)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (4,034) (1,166) 16,276 – 15,110 11,076
Income tax expense  (1,991) – (33) – (33) (2,024)
PROFIT FOR ThE YEAR (6,025) (1,166) 16,243 – 15,077 9,052
      
EARNINGS PER ShARE (PENCE)      
 – basic (2.00)p (0.38)p 5.39p – 5.01p 3.01p
 – diluted      2.97p
Analysis of impact of other IFRS adjustments   Note £000
Administrative expenses:
Goodwill amortisation reversal   (i) 16,166
Intangible amortisation    (ii) (520)
Capitalisation of development costs  (iii) 649
Holiday pay  (v) (19)
    16,276
     
e) Explanatory notes on the impact of transition to IFRS
The following notes highlight the main differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that have a material effect on the financial statements  
of the Group.
(i) Goodwill 
Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business is capitalised and amortised, on a straight-line basis, over its useful 
economic life. Impairment calculations are performed if there is evidence of a reduction in value.
The Group has applied the business combination exemption under IFRS 1 not to restate business combinations prior to the date of transition  
(1 October 2004). As a result, under IFRS the net book value at 30 September 2004 is treated as the deemed cost. Goodwill is no longer subject to 
amortisation, instead impairment testing is performed on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is an indication that impairment is required.
The impact of adopting IFRS was to increase profit before taxation and net assets by £16,166,000 in the year ended 30 September 2005 as a 
result of reversing goodwill amortisation previously charged to the income statement in the year ended 30 September 2005 under UK GAAP.
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 65
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS (CONTINUED)
e) Explanatory notes on the impact of transition to IFRS (continued)
(i) Goodwill (continued)
Goodwill of £1,985,000 was previously recognised on the acquisition of Telmate ApS (acquired in October 2004). Following the adoption 
of IFRS, this goodwill has been reversed and the underlying Optimal Routing (‘OR’) software has been valued at £2,836,000 which has 
been recognised as an intangible asset. A related deferred tax liability of £851,000 has also been recognised. This asset is being amortised 
over a period of five years.
(ii) Intangible asset and amortisation
Software has been reclassified from property, plant and equipment. Accordingly the underlying depreciation of £849,000 has been 
reclassified as intangible amortisation for the year ended 30 September 2005.
Telmate – In the year ended 30 September 2005, intangible amortisation of £520,000 has been charged to the income statement with  
a corresponding reduction in the deferred tax liability of £156,000. 
(iii) Development costs
Under UK GAAP, the Group expensed all its development expenditure to the income statement as incurred. 
IAS 38 requires that development costs for internally generated intangible assets are capitalised when certain criteria, as set out in the 
standard, are met. Development costs are capitalised from the point at which the criteria are met up to the point at which the product is 
commercially available for use. At this point, no further costs are capitalised and the previously capitalised costs are amortised on a straight- 
line basis over their expected useful life (a period of three to five years). 
The impact of adopting IFRS was to increase intangible assets and profit by £649,000 for the year ended 30 September 2005 as a result  
of capitalising development costs previously expensed under UK GAAP. There is no amortisation charge in respect of these capitalised 
development costs as the assets were not commercially available at 30 September 2005.
(iv) Share-based payments
Under UK GAAP, grants of options under the Intec Share Option Scheme were exempt from an accounting charge, as all options awarded 
under the Scheme were made with an option exercise price equal to the market value of Intec shares at the date of the grant.
Under IFRS 2, a charge is required for all share-based payments including share options. The charge in the income statement is based on 
the fair value of the options at the grant date. This fair value amount is spread over the performance period of the award which is from the 
date of the grant to the date when the options are expected to be exercised, which is typically five years. The fair value of the share option 
grants is measured by using the Black-Scholes model.
The impact of adopting IFRS 2 is an expense to the income statement of £1,166,000 for the year ended 30 September 2005 (transition 
date: £321,000). The corresponding entry is shown as a movement to the Equity reserve. As a result the net impact to shareholders’ equity 
is £nil in both periods.
(v) Holiday pay
Under UK GAAP, the Group did not recognise a liability in respect of holiday and associated pay to which employees are entitled but have 
yet to take. Under IAS 19 a holiday pay accrual is required.
The impact of adopting IFRS is an expense to the income statement of £19,000 for the year ended 30 September 2005 (transition date: £39,000).
(vi) Deferred taxation
Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation was provided in full on all timing differences, with a few exceptions, that have originated but not 
reversed at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets were recognised to the extent that it was regarded more likely than not that they 
would be recovered. Timing differences arise when the profit or loss is recognised in a different period in the tax computations from that  
in the financial statements.
IAS 12 requires a balance sheet focused approach where temporary differences are identified for each asset and liability rather than 
accounting for the effects of timing and permanent differences between taxable and accounting profit. Temporary differences are 
identified by comparing the carrying value of the asset/liability in the balance sheet to its tax base.
As a result of adopting IAS 12, presentational differences arise including classifying deferred tax liabilities and assets as non-current items 
and reporting them separately on the face of the balance sheet. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 66
27. RECONCILIATIONS OF UK GAAP TO IFRS (CONTINUED)
e) Explanatory notes on the impact of transition to IFRS (continued)
Specific deferred tax adjustments arise as a result of adopting IFRS for the items below.
      Year ended 
      30 September  
      2005 
      £000
Deferred tax asset adjustment at 1 October 2004 
 – Holiday pay      12
Deferred tax asset
 – Holiday pay accrual       6
        18
Deferred tax liability
 – capitalised development costs     (195)
 – intangible asset recognised in respect of Telmate ApS acquisition (net of amortisation)   (695)
        (890)
Income statement charge
Deferred taxation charged on capitalisation of development costs      (195)
Deferred taxation recognised in respect of OR intangible asset      156
Deferred taxation credit on adjustment to holiday pay      6
       (33)
 
(vii) Software licences
Under UK GAAP software licences were capitalised as tangible fixed assets (as part of computer equipment) and depreciated over their 
useful economic life.
Under IFRS (IAS 38), software licences which are not an integral part of the related hardware are capitalised as an intangible asset and 
amortised over their useful economic lives. As such for the year ended 30 September 2005, £2,572,000 of computer licences have been 
reclassified as intangible fixed assets, with the related depreciation charges of £849,000 being reclassified as an amortisation expense  
in the income statement. There is no impact on the income statement for both periods.
(viii) Other
Other adjustments, relating to sundry reclassifications, have been made but have no impact on net assets at 30 September 2005 or profit 
for the year ended 30 September 2005.
(ix) Cash flow statement
The move from UK GAAP to IFRS does not change the net cash flow of the Group. The IFRS cash flow format is similar to UK GAAP but 
presents various cash flows in different categories and in a different order from the UK GAAP cash flow statement.
The presentation of the cash flow statement now classifies cash flows as arising under only three activities of operating, investing and 
financing. The following are the most significant consequent reclassifications of cash flows under IFRS:
Income taxes paid are classified as operating cash flows under IFRS, but were included in a separate category of tax cash flows under 
UK GAAP.
IFRS replaces the term ‘cash’ with ‘cash and cash equivalents’, where cash equivalents are defined as short-term investments that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value. They usually have a maturity date 
less than three months from acquisition.
(x) Translation reserve
Under IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ some translation differences are required to be classified as a separate 
component of net equity. IFRS 1 permits a first time adopter to deem cumulative translation differences to be zero at the transition date. The 
Group has adopted this election in these financial statements and transferred £1,854,000 to retained earnings from the translation reserve.
•
•
notes to the accounts CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 67
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Intec Telecom Systems PLC for the year ended 30 September 2006 which 
comprise the balance sheet, the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 11. These parent company financial statements 
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Intec Telecom Systems PLC for the year ended 30 September 2006 and 
on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent 
company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether  
in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent 
with the audited parent company financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further 
information outside the Annual Report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements. It also includes 
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and 
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the 
presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2006;
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
12 December 2006
•
•
•
In De Pen Dent au DIto Rs ’ Re Po Rt 
to the Members of Intec Telecom Systems PLC INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 68
     2006 2005 
    Note £000 £000
FIXED ASSETS
Investments     5 125,648 125,564
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors    7 43,058 41,899
Cash at bank and on hand      3,366 2,190
      46,424 44,089
CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE wIThIN ONE YEAR     8 (7,553) (3,030)
NET CURRENT ASSETS     38,871 41,059
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES     164,519 166,623
CAPITAL AND RESERvES
Called up share capital     9 3,043 3,017
Share premium account     10 161,500 160,745
Merger reserve    10 6,519 6,519
Retained deficit    10 (6,543) (3,658)
EQUITY ShAREhOLDERS’ FUNDS     164,519 166,623
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 12 December 2006. They were signed on its 
behalf by
john Arbuthnott FCMA Kevin Adams
Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer
com Pany balance sheet ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 69
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting 
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting 
standards. As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company’s profit and loss account and statement of total recognised 
gains and losses are not presented in these financial statements. The Intec Telecom Systems PLC consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 30 September 2006 contain a consolidated cash flow statement. Consequently the Company has taken the exemption available in  
FRS 1 ‘Cash flow statements’ (revised 1996), and has not presented its own cash flow statement.
Change in accounting policy 
FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’ has been adopted in preparing these financial statements. FRS 20 requires that equity settled share-based 
payment transactions should be recognised at their fair value at the date of grant and in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period based on an estimate of the number of shares. As a result the loss for the period increased by £2,000 (2005: £1,000). 
The corresponding entry is made to shareholders’ funds and the adoption of FRS 20 has resulted in no change in shareholders’ funds. 
The following standards have been issued by the Accounting Standards Boards during the year: FRS 21 ‘Events After the Balance Sheet 
Date’, FRS 23 ‘The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, FRS 24 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economics’, FRS 25 
‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and FRS 28 ‘Corresponding Amounts’. The 
directors of the Company do not consider there to be a material impact to the financial statements for the current or preceding financial 
year from adopting these standards.
Investments 
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the net proceeds after issue costs. Issue costs are recognised in the profit and loss 
account over the life of the borrowing facility, using the effective interest method.
Share-based payments 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all share options granted after 7 November 2002 that remain unvested 
as of 1 January 2005. FRS 20 has also been applied to all share options granted after 31 December 2004.
The Company operates various share-based award schemes, all of which are equity settled. The fair value at the date at which the share-
based awards are granted is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding 
increase in shareholders’ funds, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. The services received from 
employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
The fair value of the options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes method, as described in note 8 to the Group accounts. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
Taxation 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay 
less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing differences arise from the 
inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial 
statements. Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to 
sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction, unless matching forward 
foreign exchange contracts have been entered into, in which case the rate specified in the relevant contract is used. At the balance sheet 
date unhedged monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
 
notes to the com Pany balance sheet INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 70
2. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The Company incurred £100,000 (2005: £97,000) in relation to UK statutory audit fees for the year ended 30 September 2006 and 
£193,000 (2005: £nil) for other services.
3. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS
The number of employees (excluding non-executive directors) at 30 September 2006 was one (2005: two). The average during the year 
was two (2005: two).
4. DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
Full details of directors’ emoluments during the year can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
5. INvESTMENTS
    Loan to  Shares in 
    subsidiary subsidiary 
    undertaking undertakings Total 
Company    £000 £000 £000
COST
At 1 October 2005    553 266,333 266,886
Additions     – 84 84
As at 30 September 2006    553 266,417 266,970
PROvISION
At 1 October 2005 and 30 September 2006    458 140,864 141,322
NET BOOK vALUE
As at 30 September 2006    95 125,553 125,648
As at 30 September 2005    95 125,469 125,564
The Company owns 100% of the share capital and voting rights of Independent Technology Systems Limited (‘ITSL’), Inception to 
Implementation (M) Sdn Bhd, Intec Telecom Systems do Brasil Limitada, Digiquant A/S and the Singl.eView Group of companies (all marked 
with * as set out below).
The other principal subsidiaries listed below are owned by ITSL either directly, through a holding company or another subsidiary company.
  % of  
 Country of ordinary share 
 registration/ capital and Principal 
 incorporation voting rights activities
Independent Technology Systems Limited* Great Britain 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Telecom Systems do Brasil Limitada* Brazil 100% Sales support and implementation
Intec USA, Incorporated USA 100% Holding company
Intec Billing, Inc. USA 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Telecom Systems Pty Limited Australia 100% Sales support and implementation
Intec Telecom Systems (France) SARL France 100% Sales support and implementation
Intec Systems (Asia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100% Sales support and implementation
Intec Telecom Systems South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% Sales support 
Intec Telecom Systems Denmark A/S* Denmark 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Outsourcing Services, Inc. USA 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Billing Ireland* Ireland 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Billing Canada Limited Canada 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Billing Australia Pty Ltd* Australia 100% Sales support development and implementation
Intec Telecom Systems (Singapore) Pte. Ltd Singapore 100% Sales support and implementation
Independent Technology Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. India 100% Development and implementation
Independent Technology Systems Scandinavia AB Sweden 100% Sales support development and implementation
Telmate ApS Denmark 100% Sales support development and implementation
notes to the com Pany balance sheet CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 71
6. ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company’s share-based payment plans are described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in note 8 to the Group accounts. The 
Company’s share-based payment arrangements are entirely equity-settled and resulted in an expense for the year of £2,000 (2005: £1,000).
7. DEBTORS
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      42,955 41,778
Prepayments and accrued income     56 121
Other debtors     47 –
      43,058 41,899
8. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE wIThIN ONE YEAR
     2006 2005 
     £000 £000
Bank loan     7,209 –
Other borrowings     107 2,223
Trade creditors     20 136
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings     – 10
Corporation tax      – 155
Other creditors including other taxation and social security      – 228
Accruals and deferred income      217 278
      7,553 3,030
The Company has a bank loan of $13.5 million (£7.2 million) raised on 20 September 2006 which was used to fund the acquisition of the 
EUR Systems business. The loan is secured over the fixed and floating assets of the Group and attracts interest at a rate of 4.29% which is 
based on the LIBOR rate (at the date of drawdown) plus 0.75%. This rate is fixed for a period of 12 months from the date the funds were 
received. The loan is repayable on demand or within one year from 20 September 2006. 
The other borrowings relate to a loan of $4 million from ADC Telecommunications, Inc. (the previous owners of the Singl.eView business) 
which was repaid during the year. The outstanding balance relates to interest accruals which are subject to final settlement. The loan 
attracted interest at a variable annual rate equal to the ‘prime’ rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, New York edition and the 
weighted average rate during the year up to the date of repayment was 7.51% (2005: 5.68%).
9. ShARE CAPITAL
Movements in share capital are disclosed in notes 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
10. RESERvES
   Share 
  Called up premium Merger Profit and 
   share capital   account reserve loss account Total 
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 October 2005  3,017 160,745 6,519 (3,658) 166,623
Issues of ordinary shares   26 494 – – 520
   – 261 – – 261
Loss for the year  – – – (2,885) (2,885)
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2006  3,043 161,500 6,519 (6,543) 164,519
11. BONDS AND GUARANTEES
The Company has entered into guarantees and cross-guarantee arrangements in favour of several banks, in respect of the financial 
obligations arising from the provision of banking facilities to UK and some overseas subsidiaries within the Group. The total amounts 
outstanding as at 30 September 2006, relating to these obligations was £0.5million. (2005: £1.1 million). INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 72
t Ra DIng Reco RD
  UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP IFRS IFRS 
  2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
REvENUE   47,474 50,673 68,828 116,228 112,320
TOTAL COST OF SALES   (15,430) (15,172) (19,550) (44,597) (50,722)
GROSS PROFIT   32,044 35,501 49,278 71,631 61,598
Distribution costs  (9,945) (8,784) (13,068) (18,600) (20,042)
ADMINISTRATIvE EXPENSES:
Development expenditure  (8,026) (10,073) (11,494) (16,049) (15,174)
Amortisation of intangible assets  (7,079) (7,170) (8,762) (1,571) (2,647)
Impairment of goodwill  (7,464) – – – –
Other exceptional administrative expenses  (776) – (702) (1,132) (3,738)
Other administrative expenses   (12,079) (11,388) (16,621) (24,044) (26,015)
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIvE EXPENSES  (35,424) (28,631) (37,579) (42,796) (47,574)
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT  (13,325) (1,914) (1,369) 10,235 (6,018)
Amount written off investments  (321) – – – –
Finance income  494 340 287 1,026 894
Finance costs  (331) (206) (105) (185) (177)
(LOSS) PROFIT BEFORE TAX  (13,483) (1,780) (1,187) 11,076 (5,301)
Tax charge on loss on ordinary activities   (1,299) (1,262) (550) (2,024) (951)
(LOSS)/PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO 
EQUITY hOLDERS OF ThE PARENT  (14,782) (3,042) (1,737) 9,052 (6,252)
ADjUSTED PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR ThE YEAR  858 4,128 7,727 10,184 (2,607)
EBITDA BEFORE EXCEPTIONALS  3,739 7,222 10,667 16,325 3,626
Basic (loss)/earnings per share  (7.94p) (1.59p) (0.84p) 3.01p (2.06p)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 
before exceptionals  0.46p 2.17p 3.57p 3.39p (0.86p)
  No. No. No. No. No.
Contracted customer base  178 280 334 363 386
Contracted installations  289 445 546 599 641
The amounts disclosed for 2004 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts  
for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are explained in note 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements which provide an explanation of the transition to IFRS. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 73
off Ice Rs an D PRofess Ional a Dv Ise Rs  
DIRECTORS
John Hughes (Non-executive chairman)
Kevin Adams (Chief executive officer)
John Arbuthnott (Chief financial officer)
Roger McDowell (Senior non-executive director)
Peter Manning (Non-executive director)
Gordon Stuart (Non-executive director)
René Kern (Non-executive director)
COMPANY SECRETARY
Craig Preston
REGISTERED OFFICE
Wells Court 2 
Albert Drive
Woking
Surrey GU21 5UB
Registered Number 3179314
PRINCIPAL BANKER
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
62-63 Threadneedle Street
London EC2R 8LA
SOLICITORS
Travers Smith
10 Snow Hill
London EC1A 2AL
BROKER
UBS Investment Bank
2 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
REGISTRARS
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
FINANCIAL PR
College Hill
78 Cannon Street
London EC4N 6HH
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 74
glossa Ry 2G: Second generation digital wireless systems that primarily 
provide voice capability, but can also support data at rates of 9.6  
to 14.4 kilobits per second.
3G: Third generation wireless network designed for data and voice 
with speeds of 144 kilobits per second up to 2 megabits per 
second.
ABI guidelines: Guidelines from the Association of British Insurers, 
whose member companies account for almost 20 per cent of 
investments in the London stockmarket.
Activation: Initiation of a service for a customer, such as initial 
switch on for a new subscriber, or addition of services subsequently 
requested, such as call waiting.
ARPG: Average revenue per group such as in a family plan.
ARPU: Average revenue per user. One of the key performance 
indicators used by telcos.
ASP: Application service provider. Service provider that delivers 
applications to customers from data centres across a wide area 
network. Also referred to as bureau services.
BSS: Business support systems. BSS are the key software systems 
used by a communications service provider (CSP) principally to 
manage the revenue generation process. Typical BSS include 
mediation, charging & rating, interconnect (wholesale) billing,  
retail billing and customer management.
Bundled services: Services that are grouped and sold in a 
package. (see bundling).
Bundling: Offer of multiple services together in a package often 
giving discounts for packaged services. Designed to entice the 
customer away from competitors and maintain loyalty.
Bureau services: See ASP.
CABS: Carrier access billing system. Software application also 
known as integrated access billing system (IABS) that enables local 
exchange carriers to measure minutes of access to collect revenue 
from the interexchange carriers.
Carrier: A telecommunications company that offers its services to 
the public; typically files tariffs that are equally applied to all 
consumers
CDR: Call detail record. A network record that includes details 
about calls, such as type, time, duration, originator and destination. 
Can be used for network monitoring, accounting and billing. Also 
know as EDR (event data record), especially when applied to next 
generation services such as downloads rather than traditional 
telephone calls.
Churn: Term used in telecommunications denoting customer 
turnover for a variety of reasons; cited as a major cost to providers. 
Clearinghouse: Third-party entity that handles financial clearing 
and settlements between carriers.
Convergence: Concept of carrying multiple traffic types (e.g. voice, 
data, video) on one Internet protocol-based network and then 
capturing information about use for convergent billing; designed to 
allow more efficient use of a network than circuit switching.
CRM: Customer relationship management. How a company handles 
its relationship with customers, either in practice or by using CRM 
software.
CSP: Communication service provider. Business that delivers fixed 
telecoms, Internet, mobile and/or contact services to customers.
CSR: Customer service representative. Carrier representative who 
deals with the consumer for order services, handling troubles or 
discrepancies in billing records.
EDRs: See CDRs.
IMS: IP multimedia subsystem. NGN architecture for provisioning of 
mobile and fixed multimedia services; run over IP.
Interconnection: Interoperability of traffic over multiple networks; 
interconnection fees are those settlements made between carriers 
for transporting others’ traffic on its network.
Interoperability: Ability to use the parts or equipment of another, 
exchange information and operate in diverse networking 
environments.
IP: Internet protocol. Protocol responsible for delivering individual 
data packets to their end destination by tracking the Internet 
address of the sender and receiver.
IPO: Initial public offering. When a company is floated, becoming a 
public limited company (plc), and its shares are traded on a stock 
exchange.
IPTv: Television broadcast via the Internet.
ITU: International Telecommunications Union. International 
organisation among UN-affiliated countries, through which private 
sector government representatives create communications 
standards.
Mediation: System that gathers usage information from a telecom 
network, processes that information and distributes it to other 
relevant systems. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 75
Middleware: Software that allows several other software systems 
to work together easily; its name comes from the notion that it sits 
in the middle of several software programs.
MMS: Multimedia messaging service. Third generation wireless 
messaging technology that includes text, sounds, images and video 
using Internet standards for messaging.
MvNO: Mobile virtual network operator. Wireless reseller that buys 
network capacity from existing wireless carriers to brand and sell its 
own services, including value-added services. See VNO.
NGN: Next generation networks. Networks based on emerging 
technologies.
NGOSS: Next generation operations support systems. Designed to 
outline a service provider’s business and architecture requirements. 
OSS: Operations support systems. OSS are the key software systems 
used by a communications service provider (CSP) principally to 
support the provision of services to the customer and to manage 
network assets. Typical OSS include inventory management, service 
activation, provisioning and order management.
Pre-paid: Usage-based service which is paid for in advance and 
expires once the established amount is reached.
Post-paid: Practice of billing for a service after it has been 
consumed.
Provisioning: Process by which a requested service is designed, 
installed and tracked for a particular customer.
POTS: Plain old telephone service. Basic telephone lines connecting 
most residential and small business users to the public switched 
telephone network.
Quadruple play: Voice, video and data or broadband Internet 
service combined with mobile phone service and delivered as a 
bundled service offering.
Rating: The process by which a telecom provider applies the price 
to service used; performed by a system called a rating engine.
Rating engine: System that marries information about network 
usage for a specific user and applies the associated cost to that 
usage.
RBOC: Regional Bell operating company. The major regional 
holding companies in the US that resulted from the 1984  
AT&T divestiture.
Recurring charge: Charge applied regularly for a product  
or service.
Settlements: Transactions between two service providers in which 
one provider bills another for carrying network traffic or delivering 
other activities; see interconnection.
TCO: Total cost of ownership. Calculation of the various economic, 
accounting and financial benefits and costs associated throughout 
the life of owning and operating a hardware component, software 
application or information systems that a business may acquire.
Telco: Public telephone company.
Tier 1, tier 2, tier 3: Classification system used to denote the size 
of a telco based on the number of subscribers and the company’s 
reach within the telecommunications industry where tier 1 refers to 
large carriers, and tiers 2 and 3 respectively refer to smaller carriers.
Traffic: Volume of activity on a network (e.g. the number of calls 
on a voice network or the amount of data travelling over an Internet 
protocol network).
Triple play: Voice, video and data or broadcast Internet service 
combined and delivered as a bundled service offering. See 
quadruple play.
vNO: Virtual network operator. Reseller that buys network capacity 
from existing carriers to brand and sell its own services, including 
value-added services. See MVNO.
voIP: Voice over Internet protocol. Method of providing voice 
telephone service digitally using Internet protocol packets rather 
than the traditional circuit-switched method used in the public 
switched telephone network (PSTN); more cost effective than the 
PSTN.
wireless phone services: Another name for mobile phone 
services. 
Many of the definitions in this glossary are taken from ‘Billing and 
OSS Glossary’, 6th Edition, published by TeleStrategies Inc (www.
telestrategies.com) and sponsored by Intec. Reproduced with 
permission. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 76
contact Info Rmat Ion OUR CENTRES
OF EXCELLENCE
UNITED KINGDOM
(WOKING)
Intec Telecom Systems PLC
Wells Court, Albert Drive,
Woking, Surrey, GU21 5UB
T: +44 (0)1483 745800
F: +44 (0)1483 745860
E: emeainfo@intecbilling.com
BRAZIL
(SÃO PAULO)
T: +55 11 3372 1400
F: +55 11 3285 6498
E: calainfo@intecbilling.com
USA
(ATLANTA)
T: +1 404 705 2800
F: +1 404 705 2805
E: usinfo@intecbilling.com
MALAYSIA
(KUALA LUMPUR)
T: +603 2782 2800
F: +603 2782 2900
E: apacinfo@intecbilling.com
 
AUSTRALIA
(BRISBANE)
T: +61 7 3218 8888
F: +61 7 3218 8899
AUSTRALIA
(MELBOURNE)
T: +61 3 9613 1900
F: +61 3 9629 5430
AUSTRALIA
(SYDNEY)
T: +61 2 9968 1157
F: +61 2 9455 0909
CANADA
(EDMONTON)
T: +1 780 701 6000
F: +1 780 701 6300
CANADA
(TORONTO)
T: +1 905 944 6900
F: +1 905 944 9430
ChINA
(BEIJING)
T: +86 10 8520 0088
F: +86 10 8520 0089 
ChINA
(SHANGHAI)
T: +86 21 6101 0160
F: +86 21 6101 0220
DENMARK
(ROSKILDE)
T: +45 70 12 25 00
F: +45 70 12 25 01
FRANCE
(PARIS)
T: +33 1 45 23 92 92
F: +33 1 45 23 92 99
hONG KONG
(HONG KONG)
T: +852 2251 1628
F: +852 2251 1618
INDIA
(BANGALORE)
T: +91 80 3021 1444
F: +91 80 3021 1400
INDIA
(MUMBAI)
T: +91 22 5698 9074
F: +91 22 2659 2909
IRELAND
(GALWAY)
T: +353 91 526611
F: +353 91 527351
ITALY
(ROME)
T: +39 06 9774 5701
F: +39 06 9774 5702
LEBANON
(BEIRUT)
T: +961 1 7482 28
F: +961 1 7437 51
MEXICO
(MEXICO CITY)
T: +52 55 917 11891
F: +52 55 917 11892
PhILIPPINES
(MAKATI)
T: +632 754 8033
F: +632 754 8000
POLAND
(WARSAW)
T: +48 22 548 0000
F: +48 22 548 0001 
PORTUGAL
(LISBON)
T: +351 19 6901 0078
RUSSIA
(MOSCOW)
T: +7 095 225 8684/8685
F: +7 095 225 8500
SINGAPORE
(SINGAPORE)
T: +65 6236 9078
F: +65 6438 2977
SOUTh AFRICA
(CAPE TOWN)
T: +27 21 658 8000
F: +27 21 658 8001
SPAIN
(MADRID)
T: +34 687 466 140
SwEDEN
(GOTHENBURG)
T: +46 31 33 50 500
F: +46 31 33 50 515
TAIwAN
(TAIPEI)
T: +886 2 2722 7222
ext 125
F: +886 2 2722 7022
ThAILAND
(BANGKOK)
T: +66 2 343 1610
F: +66 2 343 1818
UAE
(DUBAI)
T: +97 142 14 98 75
F: +97 142 14 95 01
USA
(BOSTON)
T: +1 781 359 6534
F: +1 781 653 0299
USA
(DALLAS)
T: +1 972 484 0756
F: +1 972 484 0237
USA
(MECHANICSBURG)
T: +1 717 697 6800
F: +1 717 697 6550
USA
(SAN ANTONIO)
T: +1 210 949 4700
F: +1 210 949 4080 • Key new customer wins in the US, UK, China, India, 
Holland, Russia, Pakistan, New Zealand and Brazil.
• New solutions brought to market for wireless/MVNO, 
IMS and revenue management applications.
• Offshore delivery capability developing well, with first 
major billing projects in production.
• Expansion of US outsourcing capability with acquisition 
of EUR Systems.
• Intec now has 641 installations at 386 companies.  
(FY 2005: 599 installations at 363 companies.)
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
f INANCIAL OVERVIEW
   2006  2005 
  Note £000 £000
Revenue  112,320 116,228
(Loss)/profit before tax  (5,301) 11,076
Operating (loss)/profit  (6,018) 10,235
EBITDA before exceptionals (i) 3,626 16,325
Cash generated from operations  14,072 1,232
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share  (2.06)p 3.01p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (ii) (2.06)p 2.97p
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items (ii) (0.86)p 3.39p
Notes to the financial highlights  £000 £000
(i)    (Loss)/profit before tax  (5,301) 11,076
  Net finance income  (717) (841)
 Operating (loss)/profit  (6,018) 10,235
 Exceptional expenses  3,738 1,132
 Amortisation of intangible assets  2,647 1,268
 Depreciation  3,259 3,690
 EBITDA before exceptional items  3,626 16,325
 
(ii)  Basic (loss)/earnings per share before exceptional items 
    calculation:   
  (Loss)/profit after tax  (6,252) 9,052
 Exceptional items  3,738 1,132
 Earnings after tax – before exceptional items  (2,514) 10,184
SHAREHOLDER INf ORMATION
FInAncIAl cAlEnDAr (SuBjEcT To chAngE)
Annual Report mailed Financial half-year end 2007 Interim results 2007 
March 2007 31 March 2007 May 2007
Financial year end 2007 2007 preliminary results
30 September 2007 November 2007
These provisional announcement dates will be supplemented by trading updates and other announcements as required.  
Please register for the alert service on the Intec website to be kept up-to-date in real time.
rEgISTrAr DETAIlS
Please notify the Registrar promptly of any changes, such as new address, name change, lost share certificate, etc.
Capita Registrars
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: +44 (0)870 162 3100, Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com, Web: www.capitaregistrars.com
Please visit the Capita website to find comprehensive details on making changes to information on the register as well as  
other frequently asked questions. Capita also provides a low cost on-line and telephone share dealing facility for shareholders.  
For more details, visit www.capitadeal.com or telephone +44 (0)870 458 4577.
rEcEIpT oF DuplIcATE mATErIAl
There are several reasons why you might get more than one copy of material from Intec.
If you bought shares on separate occasions, you might have different entries on the register (e.g. John Smith and John James Smith).  
A review of material received will indicate if this is the case. The registrar is not permitted to amalgamate accounts without written  
authority. Please contact the registrar directly.
Alternatively, the same information might be sent from different sources. For example, did you join the Alert Service on Intec’s website prior 
to becoming a shareholder? If so, you will need to revisit the website to amend your alert options.
AnAlySIS oF ShArEholDIngS AT 30 SEpTEmBEr 2006
Number Percentage
1   General Atlantic Partners       25.09
11  Other shareholders with greater than 2%       35.47
12  Other shareholders with greater than 1%       16.81
24  All shareholders with greater than 1%       77.37
3   Directors and related       1.65
27  Major shareholders and directors       79.02
76  Other institutions and nominee account managers with over 30,000 shares      17.10
   Individuals and unidentified       3.88
  All shareholders       100.00
ShArE prIcE
During the year ended 30 September 2006, the range of mid market prices of Intec Telecom Systems ordinary shares was as follows:
Price on 30 September 2006: 40.75p
Lowest price during the year: 30.5p
Highest price during the year: 73.5p
Average closing price during the year: 56.4p
Number of shares in issue on 30 September 2006: 304,339,593
See the director’s remuneration report on page 27 for performance graphs. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2006
INTEC TELECOM 
SYSTEMS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT  
2006
