 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Crowne Plaza Gurgaon, India
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
Broadwater Park, Denham, 
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR 
United Kingdom
Telephone:  +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax:  +44 (0) 1895 512 1 01
www.ihgplc.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
Ann UAL RePoRT 
An D FIn An CIAL  
STATeMen TS 2011  117  PARen T CoMPAny FIn An CIAL STATe Men TS
 118  Parent company balance sheet
 119  n otes to the parent company financial statements
 121  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 122  Independent auditor’s report to the members
 7  BUSIne SS Rev Iew
 8  Industry overview
 9  o ur strategy
 13  Measuring our success
 13  w here we compete
 14  How we win – Delivering Great 
Hotels Guests Love
 15  Group performance
 17  Regional performance
 25  Central
 25 System Fund
 25  o ther financial information
 27  o ur people
 31  Corporate responsibility
 34  Risk management
 41  THe Bo ARD, Sen IoR MAn AGe Men T An D THe IR Re SPon SIBILITIe S
 42  The Board of Directors
 43  o ther members of the e xecutive Committee
 44  Directors’ report
 46  Corporate governance
 52  Audit Committee report
 53 n omination Committee report
 54  Remuneration report
 1 ove Rv Iew
 2  Headlines
 3  Chairman’s statement
 4  Chief e xecutive’s review
 5   Message from the  
IHG o wners Association
 6  Great brands
 70  Statements of Directors’  
  responsibilities
 71  Independent auditor’s report  
  to the members
 72  Group income statement
 73  Group statement of  
  comprehensive income
 74  Group statement  
  of changes in equity
 76  Group statement  
  of financial position
 77  Group statement of cash flows
 78  Accounting policies
 84  n otes to the Group  
  financial statements
 69  GRoUP FIn An CIAL STATe Men TS
 123 oTHe R In FoRMATIon
 124  Glossary
 125  Shareholder profiles
 126  Investor information
 127  Dividend history
 127  Five year history
 128 Financial calendar
 128 Contacts
 129  Forward-looking statements
w e operate 4,480 hotels and  
658,348 rooms internationally
w e franchise, manage and own hotels  
in nearly 100 countries and territories
Annual General Meeting:  
25 May 2012
	 Financial calendar, Contacts and Forward-looking statements	 129
Both the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2011 and the Annual Review and 
Summary Financial Statement 2011 contain 
certain forward-looking statements as defined 
under US legislation (Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) with respect  
to the financial condition, results of operations 
and business of InterContinental Hotels Group 
and certain plans and objectives of the Board of 
Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
with respect thereto. Such statements include, 
but are not limited to, statements made in the 
Chairman’s statement and in the Chief 
Executive’s review. These forward-looking 
statements can be identified by the fact that they 
do not relate only to historical or current facts. 
Forward-looking statements often use words 
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, 
‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, or other words of 
similar meaning. These statements are based  
on assumptions and assessments made by 
InterContinental Hotels Group’s management in 
light of their experience and their perception of 
historical trends, current conditions, expected 
future developments and other factors they 
believe to be appropriate. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements  
are inherently predictive, speculative and involve 
risk and uncertainty. There are a number of 
factors that could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those 
expressed in, or implied by, such forward-
looking statements, including, but not limited to: 
the risks involved with the Group’s reliance on 
the reputation of its brands and the protection of 
its intellectual property rights; the risks related 
to identifying, securing and retaining franchise 
and management agreements; the risks of the 
effect of political and economic developments; 
the ability to acquire and retain the right people 
and skills and capability to manage growth and 
change; the risk of events that adversely impact 
domestic or international travel; the risks 
involved in the Group’s reliance upon its 
proprietary reservations system and increased 
competition in reservations infrastructure;  
the risks in relation to changing technology and 
systems; the risks of the hotel industry supply 
and demand cycle; the risks related to corporate 
responsibility; the risk of litigation; the risks 
associated with the Group’s ability to maintain 
adequate insurance; the risks associated with 
the Group’s financial stability and its ability to 
borrow and satisfy debt covenants; compliance 
with existing and changing regulations across 
numerous countries, territories and 
jurisdictions; the risks related to information 
security; and the risks associated with funding 
the defined benefits under its pension plans.
The main factors that could affect the business 
and financial results are described in the 
Business review of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2011 and also in the 
Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F.
FoRw ARD-LooKInG STATeMen TS
Designed	 and	 produced	 	
by	 Corporate Edge 
Print	 management	 by	 	
HH Associates
Printed	 by	 Royle Print
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
¤
Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 
received the highest numerical 
score among mid-scale full 
service and upscale hotels, 
respectively, in the proprietary 
J.D. Power and Associates 2011 
North America Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. 
Study based on responses  
from 61,313 guests measuring  
6 mid-scale full service and  
11 upscale hotels and measures 
opinions of guests who stayed  
in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011. 
Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and 
perceptions of consumers 
surveyed June 2010-May 2011. 
Your experiences may vary.  
Visit jdpower.com.
This Report is printed  
on 9lives 80 Silk which is  
made up of 60% FSC post-
consumer recycled fibre,  
20% pre-consumer recycled 
fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 
from FSC managed forests. 
Our printer is also FSC and 
Carbon Neutral accredited. OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	 	 1
Crowne Plaza Lijiang, China
We’re a global hotel company, operating seven  
highly-respected brands internationally.
Our ambition is to become one of the world’s great 
companies by creating Great Hotels Guests Love. 
With 4,480 hotels worldwide, we know hospitality.
At the heart of our culture is a commitment  
to acting responsibly in everything we do.  2	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Holiday Inn Phuket, Thailand
Headlines
Total gross revenue
from hotels in IHG’s system  
up 8% to $20.2bn
*
Revenue up 9%
†
 to $1,768m
Operating profit 
before exceptional items:
Group $559m
†
 (2010 $444m)
The Americas $451m
†
 (2010 $369m)
Europe $104m (2010 $78m)
Asia, Middle East and Africa  
$84m
†
 (2010 $82m)
Greater China $67m (2010 $54m)
Revenue per available room
∞
 
up 6.2%
Total number of rooms operating  
under IHG brands 658,348  
(4,480 hotels)
7m new Priority Club 
Rewards members added  
(63m members in total)
69% of rooms revenue delivered 
through IHG’s channels or by  
Priority Club Rewards members 
direct to hotel
Total dividend 
up 15% at 55.0¢  
(sterling equivalent of 34.5p)
*
	Total 	 room	 revenue	 from	 franchised	 	
hotels	 and	 total	 hotel	 revenue	 from	
managed,	 owned	 and	 leased	 hotels	 	
(not	 all	 attributable	 to	 IHG).
†
	 Includes 	 two	 significant	 liquidated	
damages	 receipts	 in	 2011;	 $10m	 in	 	
The	 Americas	 and	 $6m	 in	 Asia,	 	
Middle	 East	 and	 Africa.
∞
	 Total 	 system	 rooms	 revenue	 divided	 	
by	 the	 number	 of	 room	 nights	 available. PeRFoRmAnce 
Revenue increased nine per cent to 
$1.8 billion, with operating profit before 
exceptional items of $559 million, up 26 per 
cent. Adjusted earnings per share increased 
32 per cent from 98.6 cents to 130.4 cents. 
The Board is recommending an 11 per 
cent increase to the final dividend for 2011, 
taking it to 39.0 cents. This will give a 
full-year dividend of 55.0 cents per share, 
15 per cent higher than 2010. This converts  
to a sterling full-year dividend of 34.5 pence, 
up 15 per cent compared with 2010. 
Subject to shareholder approval, the final 
dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012.
BoARd
On 30 June 2011 Andy Cosslett stepped 
down from his role as Chief Executive of 
IHG. We were very sorry to see Andy leave 
and I would like to thank him for his 
outstanding leadership during his six-year 
tenure. Richard Solomons was appointed 
Chief Executive on 1 July 2011. Formerly 
Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Commercial Development, Richard has 
been a member of the Board since IHG 
listed as an independent company in 2003. 
He has a proven track record as a business 
leader and a deep understanding of IHG 
drawn from his time in a number of senior 
roles and he has impressed me greatly in 
his first six months as Chief Executive. 
Taking over from Richard as Chief 
Financial Officer is Tom Singer, who joined 
us on 26 September 2011 from global 
healthcare group Bupa, where he had 
been Group Finance Director since 2008. 
His broad commercial and international 
experience makes him an ideal addition  
to the team, and I am pleased to welcome 
him to the Board as an Executive Director. 
On 13 June 2011, Jim Abrahamson, 
President, The Americas and an Executive 
Director of IHG since 1 August 2010, left the 
Company to take up a role as the CEO of an 
independent US lodging company. He was 
succeeded by Kirk Kinsell, who has held  
a number of senior leadership positions  
at IHG, including President, Europe,  
Middle East and Africa, and has been an 
Executive Director since 1 August 2010. 
I am pleased to welcome three additional 
new Board members to IHG. Tracy Robbins 
was promoted to Executive Director on 
9 August 2011 having been an Executive 
Committee member since joining IHG in 
December 2005. She retains her 
responsibility for global talent 
management, leadership development, 
employee reward and group operations 
support. This appointment recognises 
both Tracy’s exceptional capabilities and 
the critical importance of attracting, 
developing and retaining top talent as we 
implement our ambitious expansion plans.
We made two Non-Executive Director 
appointments during the year. Dale 
Morrison, formerly President and CEO  
of McCain Foods Limited, joined the 
Board on 1 June 2011 and on 1 July 2011 
Luke Mayhew joined as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, a role he has 
fulfilled at Brambles Limited since 2005. 
He replaces Ralph Kugler who has retired 
from the Board after over eight years at IHG. 
I would like to welcome both Dale and Luke 
to the Board and thank Ralph for his highly 
valuable contribution to the Board and in 
particular his exemplary chairmanship  
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Fin An ci Al PoSition An d 
Sh AReholde R Retu Rn S
Careful control over cash has enabled us 
to reduce our overall net debt position by 
$205 million to $538 million. In November 
2011 we refinanced our bank debt, putting 
in place a five-year $1.07 billion facility, 
providing certainty over funding until 
November 2016. No returns above normal 
dividends were made to shareholders in 
2011. Total funds returned since March 
2004 amount to more than $6 billion.
outlook
The hard work of our people is central  
to IHG’s success. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank everyone in IHG for 
their focus, dedication and commitment 
during the year.
2012 is likely to be a year dominated by 
economic and political uncertainty in 
several geographies. IHG has a business 
model which has proven to be resilient,  
a wide geographic spread and a strong 
balance sheet. This means we are 
confident in our ability to continue to 
deliver strong results.
David Webster 
chairman
“ihG has a business model which 
has proven to be resilient, a wide 
geographic spread and a strong 
balance sheet, meaning we are 
confident in our ability to 
continue to deliver strong results.”
 David Webster
 chairman
ch AiRmAn ’S St At ement
dear Shareholder
	 h eadlines and chairman’s statement	3
OVERVIEW BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS  4	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
One of my immediate priorities on being 
appointed Chief Executive was to ensure  
that IHG was optimally structured to derive 
maximum benefit from our scale and 
expertise in each geographic region. As a 
result we have reorganised the business into 
four regions: The Americas; Europe; Asia, 
Middle East and Africa; and Greater China.
dR ivin G h iGh -qu Al ity GRow th
The next phase of IHG’s journey will be 
characterised by high-quality growth, 
measured by gains in both market share 
and margins. Where appropriate, and as 
opportunities arise, we will invest our 
free cash flow in the business to 
accelerate this growth and raise the 
awareness of our brands.
We will continue to drive market share  
in two ways. We will use our powerful 
revenue systems and innovations to drive 
growing revenues into IHG branded hotels. 
We will also add new and rebranded hotels to 
our system. In 2011 we delivered 6.2 per cent 
global RevPAR growth, beating the industry 
in key markets, such as the US and Greater 
China. We grew our system size by two per 
cent in the year and our industry-leading  
13 per cent of the active new-build global 
pipeline demonstrates our ability to continue 
to increase our share of room supply.
We will achieve progressive and sustainable 
margin growth and higher returns for 
owners by capitalising on benefits of scale 
and efficiency. Our fee-based margin was 
up nearly five percentage points in 2011, 
and we expect to continue to drive up our 
margins over time whilst continuing to 
reinvest in the business.
There are three clear priorities we have 
set to achieve our growth strategy and 
deliver Great Hotels Guests Love:
1. PReFeRRed BRAn dS
In a competitive world, preferred brands 
are a prerequisite to deliver market  
share growth. Our brands are already 
some of the best recognised in the 
industry, but in order to drive meaningful 
increases in share, we have to make 
them work harder.
The Holiday Inn relaunch continues to 
drive results for both IHG and our owners. 
In 2011, the brand once again grew its 
industry segment premium and for the 
first time ever was awarded ‘Highest in 
Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale  
Full Service Hotel Chains’ in the coveted 
J.D. Power and Associates
¤
 (see page 
129) 2011 North American Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. We will keep 
improving the experience for guests and 
building brand awareness. In 2012 
Holiday Inn is the official hotel provider to 
the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, which will also coincide with the 
brand’s 60th birthday, so we have plenty 
of opportunity to talk about the brand to 
existing and future guests.
We are now applying the same approach 
we used with Holiday Inn to deliver the 
Crowne Plaza repositioning programme. 
Crowne Plaza has been a great success 
story for IHG and is already the world’s  
fourth largest full-service upscale hotel 
brand, generating $3.9 billion in total gross 
revenues per annum. It does suffer from 
some inconsistencies, however, especially 
in North America, and a three-phase, 
multi-year programme will address this, 
raising all Crowne Plaza hotels to the same 
standard around the world.
We also see the opportunity to leverage 
the value of the IHG family of brands 
through select partnerships. The first 
chie F ex ecutive’ S Review
our focus is on driving high-quality growth. w e will achieve this by further strengthening our 
existing brands, launching new brands and ensuring our hotels are known for industry-leading 
guest experiences delivered by talented people and best-in-class delivery systems. t he global 
economy remained uncertain throughout 2011, but the strength of ih G’s preferred brands, 
underpinned by our global systems and scale, drove good growth in revenue and operating profits.
“t he next phase of ih G’s journey 
will be characterised by  
high-quality growth, measured 
by gains in both market share 
and margins. w here appropriate, 
and as opportunities arise, we 
will invest our free cash flow in 
the business to accelerate this 
growth and raise the awareness 
of our brands.”
 Richard Solomons
 chief e xecutive 	 chief executive’s review	5
OVERVIEW BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS
InterContinental Alliance Resort opened 
during 2011, we continue to expand 
Holiday Inn Club Vacations and we 
entered into a joint venture to launch  
the Holiday Inn Express brand in India. 
In 2012 we will launch two new brands  
to exploit untapped profitable market 
segments, in the midscale segment in 
the US and in the upper upscale segment 
in China. We have had a significant amount 
of interest from our owners in relation to 
these new brands and are very excited 
about the opportunities they will bring.
2. tA l ented Peo Ple
Our brands represent a promise to our 
guests. It is our people who deliver that 
promise and bring each brand to life.  
So aligning all 345,000 people working in 
our hotels and corporate offices around 
the world as brand ambassadors is 
critical to our success. 
We need our people to deliver consistent 
brand experiences to our guests which 
requires significant effort and innovation 
and the engagement of our third-party 
hotel owners. This is a big task but we 
have made great progress over the past 
few years with an innovative and effective 
approach. We have launched our suite of 
‘People Tools’ which help our owners and 
managers to hire, train, involve and 
recognise the best employees for their 
brands, and more recently piloted a 
unique approach to revitalise the ‘back  
of house’ space in our hotels. 
Our efforts in this area have been 
rewarded and for the first time IHG  
has been placed in Fortune’s ‘100 Best 
Companies to Work For’ in the US as  
well as winning a host of other awards. 
3. BeSt -in-cl ASS delive Ry
We continue to leverage our global scale 
and the power of our systems to drive a 
greater share of industry demand into 
our hotels. We do this by ensuring our 
distribution channels are aligned with  
the needs of our guests, whilst driving the 
most profitable revenues for our owners. 
In 2011, 69 per cent of total rooms revenue 
was booked through IHG’s channels or 
direct to hotels by our 63 million Priority 
Club Rewards members.
Our innovations continue to lead the 
industry. During the year we introduced our 
Best Price Guarantee, designed to drive 
more guests to book through our direct 
websites. We are also a founding member 
of roomkey.com, the first industry-owned 
online hotels search engine, launched in 
January 2012, and our mobile apps now 
generate close to $150 million annually 
from a standing start two years ago.
Looking ahead, whilst there is considerable 
uncertainty in some markets of the world, 
the hotel industry is well-positioned to 
benefit from long-term trends with 
continuing demand in emerging markets 
and China in particular. We remain 
confident in IHG’s ability to deliver 
high-quality growth through gains in both 
market share and margins, due to our 
preferred brands, outstanding people, 
geographic diversity, robust balance 
sheet and resilient business model.
 
 
 
Richard Solomons 
chief executive
Preferred
brands
Talented 
people
Best-in-class
delivery
INVEST IN GROWTH
Responsible business practice
Sustainable margin growth Grow market share
DELIVERING 
GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE
Glenn Squires  
2012 Chairman  
IHG Owners Association  
For information on the  
IHG Owners Association,  
go to www.owners.org
201 1 will always be noted as the year 
the ih G o wners Association changed  
its name. From iAh i, the o wners’ 
Association to ih G o wners Association. 
w hile that change may not look 
significant from the outside, to the 
leaders of this organisation and to our 
ihG partners, it signifies our partnership 
in a way that our old name did not.
our new name reflects our representation 
of ih G brands across the globe. t he 
former name stood for international 
Association of holiday inns, and since 
the mid-1980s, we have represented 
more than just that one brand. n ow our  
name reflects the breadth of work the 
Association fosters on behalf of all 
owners. w e are deeply grateful to  
Bill d eForrest, our immediate past 
chairman, for his passion to move our 
rebranding forward.
Reflecting on the past year, i see it as a 
year of strengthened alignment with ih G 
to better serve our owners. our volunteer 
leaders and our ih G partners operate 
from a shared foundation of mutual 
respect and a shared understanding 
that our decisions have real impact  
for every hotel and owner worldwide. 
w e are aligned to improve return on 
investment and the value of our assets 
while growing shareholder value. 
Aligning our global view 01_Page Heading 	 6	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
GRe At bRAn dS
d elivering seven great hotel brands and the world’s first and largest hotel loyalty programme. A portfolio  
that covers everything from luxurious upscale hotels in the world’s major cities and resorts to reliable  
family-oriented hotels that offer great service and value.
www.intercontinental.com
InterContinental Hotels & Resorts
®
 In t He k now
We’ve been on the international scene for over 60 years so no-one 
knows the world like we do. We love to share our knowledge 
with our guests and they love our understated service and style.
169 hotels | 57,598 rooms | 51 hotels in development pipeline
www.crowneplaza.com
Crowne Plaza
®
 Hotels & Resorts tRA v ell In G FoR SuCCe SS
We love to help our guests reach their personal business goals 
– one after the other – and accelerate their journey to success. 
We do this by combining the best facilities with great service. 
387 hotels | 105,104 rooms | 108 hotels in development pipeline
www.hotelindigo.com
Hotel Indigo
®
 Re FRe SHIn Gl y l o CAl
We love the fact that we’re different, right down to our local  
take on design. We’re all about neighbourhoods and take  
every opportunity to share them with our guests. 
39 hotels | 4,564 rooms | 59 hotels in development pipeline
www.holidayinn.com
Holiday Inn
®
 and Holiday Inn Club v acations
®
  
CHAmPIon In G t He R e Al you
We love to make our guests feel totally comfortable, whether 
they arrive in a suit or shorts and a T-shirt. 
1,240 hotels | 228,256 rooms | 267 hotels in development pipeline
www.hiexpress.com
Holiday Inn e xpress
®
 CHAmPIon In G t He R e Al you
One of the world’s fastest growing hotel brands,  
Holiday Inn Express offers convenience and comfort  
at great value. 
2,114 hotels | 196,666 rooms | 470 hotels in development pipeline
www.staybridgesuites.com
Staybridge Suites
®
 l Ike FAmIly
We love to make our guests feel like family and our hotels  
feel like home.  
1 79 hotels | 19,567 rooms | 95 hotels in development pipeline
www.candlewoodsuites.com
Candlewood Suites
®
 Feel FRee
We love giving our guests all the essentials and freedom they 
need for a home-like stay at great value. We give them room  
to be themselves, but are always on hand when needed.
285 hotels | 27,500 rooms | 94 hotels in development pipeline
www.priorityclub.com
Priority Club
®
 Rewards unle ASH t He Powe R oF you R PoIn t S
The hotel industry’s first and largest loyalty programme, 
Priority Club Rewards gives its 63 million members 
unparalleled choice and flexibility.
63 million members | on average over 600,000 new members every month 	 Page header	7
  Business review 	 8		 Industry	overview
	 9		 Our	strategy
	 9		 Delivering	the	elements	of	our	strategy
	 9	 	 Competing	with	an	appropriate 	 	
business	 model
	 10		 	 Competing	in	the	best	developed 	 	
and	emerging	markets
	 11		 	 Winning	with	a	portfolio	of 	 	
preferred	 brands
	 12		 Winning	with	our	best-in-class	delivery
	 12		 	 Winning	with	our	talented	people	and 	
business	relationships	with	others
	 13		 Measuring	our	success
	 13		 Where	we	compete
	 14		 How	we	win	–	Delivering	Great	Hotels 	
Guests	Love
	 15		 Group	performance
	 15		 Group	results
	 15		 Total	gross	revenue
	 16		 Global	hotel	and	room	count
	 16		 Global	pipeline
	 17		 The	Americas
	 19		 Europe 	
	 21		 Asia,	Middle	East	and	Africa
	 23	 Greater	China
	 25		 Central
	 25		 System	Fund
	 25 	 	 Other 	 financial	 information
	 25		 Exceptional	operating	items
	 25		 Net	financial	expenses
	 26		 Taxation
	 26		 Earnings	per	ordinary	share
	 26 	 	 Dividends
	 26		 Share	price	and	market	capitalisation
	 26		 Capital	structure	and 	 	
	 	 liquidity 	 management
	 27		 Our	people
	 27		 Supporting	our	Vision
	 28		 Our	people	strategy
	 30		 	 London	2012	Olympic	and 	 	
Paralympic	Games
	 30		 Celebrating	diversity
	 30		 Ensuring	health	and	safety
	 30		 External	recognition
	 31		 Corporate	responsibility
	 33	 CR	priorities,	performance	and	targets
	 34 	 	 Risk 	 management
	 34		 Risk	management	system
	 36	 	 Managing	risks	in	a	changing 	
environment
	 37		 Managing	risk	in	hotels
	 38		 2012	risk	factors
In this section we describe the 
industry and markets in which we 
operate and our strategy for winning  
in this environment. We set out our  
key performance indicators, describe 
the development and performance  
of the business during 2011, and 
provide a comprehensive review of  
our approach towards our employees, 
corporate responsibility and risk 
management throughout the Group.
BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
InterContinental Boston, US
	 Great brands and Business review	 7 	 8	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Industry overview
The hotel industry demonstrated its resilience in the challenging  
12 months ended 31 December 2011 by continuing the recovery started 
during 2010. Globally, industry revenue per available room (RevPAR),  
a key industry metric, was up 5.9 per cent, driven primarily by pricing, 
or average daily rate. In addition, global room demand surpassed its 
previous peak and is now at a new high, most notably in the United 
States (US), the largest lodging market in the world.
IHG performed well over the year with global RevPAR growth of 
6.2 per cent, maintaining the Group’s 2010 performance. Our number 
of open hotel rooms grew to 658,348, with 241 new hotels opening 
worldwide, taking into account the removal of terminated contracts.
IHG closely monitors markets across the globe and follows key 
industry and business metrics, such as RevPAR, average daily rate, 
demand and gross domestic product (GDP), to ensure its strategy 
continues to be sustainable in the changing business environment 
and suitable for the Group’s capabilities, and as such the business 
remains resilient.
The global hotel market is estimated to be close to 20 million rooms 
and leading research (Smith Travel Research) calculates there are 
seven million branded hotel rooms globally, with the remainder a 
combination of independent hotels, guesthouses and other types of 
lodging. For four years, IHG has held the largest share of branded 
rooms, currently at approximately nine per cent of supply, distributed 
across nearly 100 countries and territories. 
The growth of the branded hotel sector has exceeded that of the 
unbranded sector over the past 10 years, and although currently 
less than half of all hotel rooms are branded, the benefits of a 
This Business Review for the financial year ended 31 December 201 1 provides a review of the business environment of 
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC (the Company) and its group of companies (together the Group or IHG), key performance 
indicators (KPIs), and commentaries on the development and performance of the business. It also covers employee and corporate 
responsibility matters, including the environment, and a description of the risks and uncertainties impacting the business.
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew
brand, such as the greater security and performance of a global 
reservation system, loyalty schemes and international networks, 
are clear to many owners. IHG is therefore well-positioned to win 
the business of owners seeking to grow with a hotel brand. 
Additionally, IHG and other large hotel companies have the 
competitive advantage of a global portfolio of brands that suit the 
different real estate or market opportunities an owner may have.
IHG continues to grow rooms supply and revenues, aided by  
wider trends:
Global	 economic	 trends – we expect 2011’s modest economic 
growth to continue into 2012. Countries in or highly connected to  
the Eurozone face an uncertain short-term outlook and are likely  
to see stagnant or negative GDP growth, depending on the outcome 
of the sovereign debt crisis. Many other developed and major 
emerging markets are expected to experience modest growth.  
GDP is a leading indicator for key industry metrics and our expertise 
combined with consensus opinion for long-term GDP trends allow 
us to prepare better the business for fluctuations in demand; and
Change	 in	 demographics	 – as developed market populations age, 
increased leisure time suggests positive implications for travel and 
hotel demand. Conversely, younger generations are looking to 
balance work and lifestyles better, indicating an increasing need for 
quality hotel options. In advanced developing markets, an emerging 
middle class presents consumer and branded organisations with 
an opportunity to develop further global networks.
Global economic and industry growth, 201 1
(per cent, annualised)
Global hotel rooms supply growth, 201 1
(per cent, annualised)
Global 
industry
room
supply
growth
Global
IHG
room
supply
growth
Global
GDP
growth
1
Global
industry
RevPAR
growth
Global
IHG
RevPAR
growth
2
1
IMF data
2
Comparable hotels
+1.2%
+1.7%
+3.8%
+6.2%
+5.9%
Global 
industry
room
supply
growth
Global
IHG
room
supply
growth
Global
GDP
growth
1
Global
industry
RevPAR
growth
Global
IHG
RevPAR
growth
2
1
IMF data
2
Comparable hotels
+1.2%
+1.7%
+3.8%
+6.2%
+5.9% BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	9
1 Before regional and central overheads and exceptional items.
IHG’s strategy determines a set of choices to balance the quality  
of our hotels and the speed at which we grow. We measure this 
through key performance indicators (KPIs) such as growing our 
RevPAR, our system size and our margins. In addition, we ensure 
we continue to improve employee engagement and increase the 
proportion of hotel room demand that we generate for our owners 
through our proprietary distribution and reservation systems. 
Delivering the elements of our strategy
Competing	 with	 an	 appropriate	 business	 model	
Our business model has a clear focus on franchising and managing 
hotels, rather than owning them, enabling us to grow at an 
accelerated pace with limited capital investment. This enables  
IHG to focus on building strong, preferred brands, leaving asset 
management and real estate to our local partners with the 
necessary expertise. With this ‘asset-light’ approach, IHG also 
benefits from the reduced volatility of fee-based income streams, 
as compared with the ownership of assets.
A key characteristic of the franchised and managed business  
model is that it is highly cash generative, with a high return on 
capital employed. Currently 87 per cent of operating profit
1
 is 
derived from franchised and managed operations. In some 
situations, IHG supports its brands by using its capital to build or 
support the funding of flagship assets in high-demand locations. 
We plan to recycle capital by selling these assets when the time  
is right and to reinvest elsewhere in the business and across  
our portfolio. Recent examples of this include the sale of our 
InterContinental Buckhead property in Atlanta and the Hotel Indigo 
San Diego, both of which are now managed by IHG under long-term 
management agreements.
	
Choosing not to own hotel assets means the focus of our business 
is on:
•  developing preferred brands that offer a unique set of guest 
experiences;
•  building global demand delivery systems, such as our branded 
hotel websites and call centres; and
•  building relationships with existing and prospective owners  
who can utilise these systems to create enhanced returns.
Across the industry, hotel ownership is increasingly becoming 
separated from hotel operations, with hotel owners using  
third-parties, such as IHG, to manage their hotels and run their 
demand delivery systems. We are well-positioned to benefit from 
this trend with our focus on franchising and managing hotels  
within our many brands.
Strategy is about making distinct and clear choices about where 
and how to compete in order to achieve a set of business goals.
In addition, an organisation needs to be able to execute these 
choices with focus and measure its success using a clear set  
of comprehensively aligned metrics.
Our strategy
With	 a	 portfolio	 of	 preferred	 brands	 in	 the	 best	 developed	 and	 emerging	 markets,	 	
our	 talented	 people	 are	 focused	 on	 delivering	 Great	 Hotels	 Guests	 Love	 and	 executing	 a	 clear	 	
set	 of	 priorities	 to	 achieve	 our	 Vision	 of	 becoming	 one	 of	 the	 great	 companies	 of	 the	 world…
‘Where we compete’
Appropriate business model
Relevant consumer segments
Best developed and emerging markets
‘How we win’
Portfolio of preferred brands
Best-in-class delivery
Talented people
…achieved through strategic priorities
Growing our core business in the largest 
markets where scale really counts, and also in
key global gateway cities and resort destinations 
Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale 
in new business areas
Profitable market share
Progressive margins
Sustainable investment
Responsible business 	 10	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Competing	 in	 the	 best	 developed	 and	 emerging	 markets
Globally, supply of hotel rooms has grown at approximately  
three per cent per annum over the past five years to approximately 
20 million rooms in 2011. Competition for this new rooms supply 
include other branded hotel companies, both large and small, 
international and domestic, and independently owned hotels.
Taking into account rooms supply in open hotels and those under 
development, we have a leadership position in 13 of the top 20 
markets, globally. These markets alone account for over 80 per 
cent of global lodging spend. They include large developed markets 
such as the US, United Kingdom (UK) and Germany, as well as 
emerging markets like China and India.
Key economic metrics, such as GDP and travel flows, generally 
indicate current and future levels of hotel demand and we continue 
to forecast these trends so we can focus on the largest markets. 
Concentrating growth in the largest markets means IHG and 
owners can operate more efficiently and benefit from enhanced 
revenues and reduced costs. 
The US is the largest market for branded hotels, with 3.4 million 
rooms, accounting for 64 per cent of all US rooms available.  
The segment in the US with the greatest share is midscale, with 
1.3 million branded hotel rooms, and IHG’s Holiday Inn brand family, 
which includes Holiday Inn Express and Holiday Inn Club Vacations, 
along with Holiday Inn itself, is the largest in this segment.
In China, IHG sees the greatest opportunity for growth within any 
single country and our strategy has been to enter the market early, 
to develop our relationships with key local partners and grow our 
presence rapidly. In a country with 0.5 million branded hotel rooms, 
IHG is the largest international hotel company with over 55,000 
rooms across our brands and another 50,000 in the planning phase 
or under construction. This rapid pace of openings for IHG, which 
was the first international hotel chain to expand into the country, 
has been planned against a back-drop of increasing demand 
drivers for hotels, such as a large emerging middle class and 
growing domestic and international travel flows. 
IHG is also focused on developing in large markets such as the  
UK and Germany, where we rank second and third, respectively.  
We anticipate that these markets will remain significant sources  
of hotel demand and seek to develop lasting relationships with 
owners and build our brands’ awareness and presence.
In certain markets, IHG is able to benefit from and maximise 
regional similarities and travel patterns by clustering operations 
and generating efficiencies. Our predominantly managed 
operations across the Middle East and Asia, which have become 
significant contributors to our global performance, are examples of 
clustering operations across multiple brands, owners and markets.
Outside the largest markets, we focus on achieving presence for 
our brands in key gateway cities with the potential for high demand 
from business and leisure guests and where our brands can 
generate revenue premiums.
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Franchised
Managed
Owned and leased
IHG continuing operating profit* 
by ownership type for the year 
ended 31 December 2011
*Before regional and central 
overheads and exceptional items.
Franchised
Managed
Owned and leased
IHG global room count 
by ownership type at 
31 December 2011
Mana GeD
We	 manage	 637	 hotels	
worldwide
Owne D an D Lea SeD
We	 own	 11	 hotels	 worldwide	 	
(less	 than	 one	 per	 cent	 of	 our	
portfolio)
IHG
IHG
IHG
IHG
IHG usually 
supplies 
General 
Manager as  
a minimum
IHG
Third-party
IHG
Low/none
High
FRan CHISeD
This	 is	 the	 largest	 part	 of	 our	
business:	 3,832	 hotels	 operate	 	
under	 franchise	 agreements
IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of 
rooms 
revenue
bRAnd 
owne RSHIP
mARket In G And 
d ISt RIbut Ion
 
St AFF
Hotel 
owne RSHIP
 
IHG CAPIt Al
 
IHG In Come
Fee % of total 
revenue plus  
% of profit 
All revenues 
and profits
The key features of our business model are represented in the following table and charts: BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 11
Hotel	 Indigo is our boutique and youngest brand, launched in 2004, 
and focused on a guest who appreciates art and design and who 
wants to experience something different. Hotel Indigo provides 
guests with the refreshing design and service experience 
synonymous with a boutique hotel. Each hotel is unique and reflects 
its local neighbourhood with design elements such as murals,  
a vibrant colour palette and locally sourced and seasonal menu 
items. During 2011, Hotel Indigo was awarded ‘Highest in Guest 
Satisfaction Among Upscale Hotel Chains’ in the J.D. Power and 
Associates
¤	
2011 North American Hotel Guest Satisfaction Index 
Study
SM
. Hotels under this brand are mostly operated under 
franchise agreements;
The	 Holiday	 Inn brand family, which comprises Holiday Inn,  
Holiday Inn Express and Holiday Inn Club Vacations, was the 
world’s largest midscale hotel brand by number of rooms at 
31 December 2011, and is IHG’s most significant operation.  
Focused on creating an atmosphere where guests can relax, the 
brand is designed to support both business and leisure travellers. 
Working with our owners and through their continued investment, 
the Holiday Inn brand family has all but completed a $1bn refresh, 
updating its image by upgrading facilities, service and amenities, 
and ensuring the brand family continues to remain competitive 
within its midscale markets. Recently, J.D. Power and Associates
¤
 
ranked Holiday Inn ‘Highest in Guest Satisfaction Among Mid-scale 
Full Service Hotel Chains’ in their 2011 North American Hotel  
Guest Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. The Holiday Inn brand family  
adds to IHG’s record of firsts, being the first international hotel 
chain both to open in China in 1984 and to launch a direct bookings 
website in 1995. The brand family operates predominantly under 
franchise agreements;
Staybridge	 Suites is our upscale extended stay brand for guests on 
longer trips, offering studios and suites complete with full kitchens 
and separate sleeping and work areas in a sociable, family-like 
atmosphere. It was the fastest upscale extended stay brand to 
reach the 50-hotel and 100-hotel milestones and in 2008, opened 
its first hotel in Europe, in Liverpool, UK. Since then, Staybridge 
Suites has expanded its footprint with locations including Cairo and 
Abu Dhabi in the Middle East and, most recently, in St Petersburg  
in Russia. Staybridge Suites is playing its role in IHG’s sponsorship 
of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games by opening the 
Staybridge Suites London Stratford property. Located on the 
doorstep of the Olympic Village and at the heart of Europe’s largest 
shopping centre, this property will be one of the onsite hotels for 
the Games. Properties under this brand are operated under a 
mixture of franchise and management agreements; and
Candlewood	 Suites, acquired by IHG in 2003, is our North 
American-focused midscale extended stay brand that gives its 
guests all the essentials they need for a home-like stay at great 
value. Candlewood Suites has the most properties under 
development in North American midscale extended stay lodging 
and continues to keep its look and feel fresh. During 2011, the  
brand began a programme to develop a new and refreshed look  
and design to ensure its guest experience remains competitive and 
attractive. Properties under this brand tend to be operated under 
franchise agreements.
The number of hotels in planning and under construction, known  
in the industry as the pipeline, reflect the future supply of hotels. 
During 2011, we opened 44,265 rooms in 26 countries and 
territories, and signed a further 55,424 rooms into our development 
pipeline across 32 countries. As part of our ongoing commitment to 
maintaining the quality of our brands, we removed 33,078 rooms 
during the year. As at 31 December 2011, IHG had the largest 
pipeline in the industry, with 180,484 rooms in 1,144 hotels across 
59 countries. This represents a market share of 13 per cent of all 
hotels under development, including those that are independent  
or unaffiliated.
Our pipeline ensures continued growth in new and emerging 
markets that best suit our strengths and anticipates the future 
needs of customers. We have committed development teams 
across both developed and emerging markets ensuring a sizable 
pipeline in developing markets: during 2011 we opened 8,084 rooms 
in Greater China, representing nearly 20 per cent of all new rooms 
opened by IHG across the globe.
Winning	 with	 a	 portfolio	 of	 preferred	 brands	 focused	 on	 	
relevant	 consumer	 segments
We offer hotel brands that appeal to guests with different needs and 
tastes and have built a portfolio of global brands, growing alongside 
innovative new brands.
The hotel industry is usually split into segments based upon price 
point and consumer expectations. IHG is focused on the three 
segments that together generate over 90 per cent of branded hotel 
revenues, namely: midscale (broadly three star hotels), upscale 
(mostly four star), and luxury (five star).
To reflect emerging consumer trends, during 2011 IHG developed 
two new brands, with one focused on the sizable US midscale 
market, and the other tailored towards Chinese guests. We expect 
to launch these brands in 2012, with the first hotels to open  
from 2013.
As at 31 December 2011, IHG’s portfolio of brands included:
InterContinental	 Hotels	 &	 Resorts is IHG’s five star brand located 
in key cities and resort destinations across more than 60 countries 
worldwide. With over 60 years of experience, our talented people, 
supported by outstanding facilities, help us differentiate in a 
competitive segment by understanding that well-travelled and 
affluent people want to be connected to what is special about a 
hotel and its destination. The brand’s ethos is to empower our 
people to share their knowledge so guests further enjoy great 
experiences that enrich their lives, broaden their outlook, and  
make the most of their time with us. Hotels under this brand tend  
to be managed by IHG;
Crowne	 Plaza	 Hotels	 &	 Resorts, in the upscale four star segment, 
specialises in offering modern business and meeting facilities with 
a unique service style to provide productive and energising 
experiences to guests who live life to the fullest and believe travel  
is essential for their journey to success. IHG is committed to the 
sustainable evolution of each of its brands, and as such, is working 
hard to strengthen Crowne Plaza’s position in the market over the 
coming years. A multi-year brand development programme was 
announced in 2011 to reflect the commitment of IHG and owners  
to improve the guest experience. The majority of hotels under this 
brand tend to be operated under franchise agreements in the  
US and Europe, and are managed by IHG elsewhere in the world; 	 12	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
hotels and drive incremental revenues. This extensive marketing 
and technology support ranges from the ‘Stay You’ campaign for the 
Holiday Inn relaunch and the ‘Best Price Guarantee’ campaign to 
promote booking through IHG’s proprietary distribution channels, 
such as IHG.com and HolidayInn.com, to sophisticated technology 
allowing for improved targeted marketing, communications, and 
innovative booking technologies. During 2011, these innovations 
were best showcased by our leading mobile booking platforms 
realising $148m in revenues by 31 December 2011 – up from $2.5m 
in 2009. These mobile platforms, which are tailored to each of  
our brands, are supported on the major mobile device operating 
platforms and demonstrate IHG’s efforts in anticipating how  
guests will interact with hotels and book rooms in the future. 
Our talented people create our culture, and IHG is aligned around 
great values which are consistently brought to life through a suite  
of five IHG behaviours, the ‘Winning Ways’:
• do the right thing;
• show we care;
• aim higher;
• celebrate difference; and
• work better together.
See pages 27 to 30 for more information.
IHG maintains effective relationships across all aspects of its 
operations. The Group’s operations are not dependent upon any 
single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the breadth of its 
brands, market segments and geographical coverage. For example, 
IHG’s largest third-party hotel owner controls just two per cent of 
the Group’s total room count as at 31 December 2011.
IHG continued to enhance relationships with suppliers and 
streamline its procurement processes during 2011. With a focus on 
sourcing high-quality goods and services at the most competitive 
prices and employing best-practice throughout the Group, IHG 
strives to ensure enhanced value for the Group, our hotel owners 
and shareholders.
Winning	 with	 our	 best-in-class	 delivery
The major benefit IHG brings to guests who stay with us, and 
owners who invest with us, is the extent of our global hotel network 
and the demand we deliver through our system. Our system is the 
combined efforts of our scale and networks, websites, call centres, 
loyalty schemes and sales and marketing expertise to help guests 
book and stay with us, and then maintain the relationship with them 
after they leave. Together, these tools form one of the largest such 
‘systems’ in the industry and are the engine of our business, 
delivering on average 69 per cent of total rooms revenue.
With continued focus on the success of this global system, we have 
developed best-in-class marketing and technology to support our 
Winning	 with	 our	 talented	 people	 and	 business	 relationships	 	
with	 others
IHG believes talented and passionate people at all levels of the 
business are a key competitive advantage to delivering Great Hotels 
Guests Love and enhanced shareholder returns. Part of this 
process is empowering our people to deliver our branded guest 
experience. To do this we need a culture which champions our 
brands and effectively articulates what our brands mean and  
who they are for. We have begun this with a focus on being 
‘BrandHearted’. For IHG, BrandHearted is about fostering a 
collaborative culture to improve our brands’ performance by 
ensuring the brands are at the heart of all decision-making and 
actions, and helping our people to bring our brands to life.
IHG recognises that a large proportion of its staff will not come 
under direct IHG employment and we have initiatives in place  
to help our owners deliver our brands and fulfil guests’ needs.  
We have extensive induction, communication, development and 
recognition programmes aligned under our employment brand 
‘Room to be yourself’. These programmes provide a supportive 
environment that help our people to be successful and realise our 
Vision of becoming one of the great companies of the world by 
delivering the right experiences to our guests through shared 
values and living our brands.
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
SCAle
4,480 hotels
153 million guests annually
Revenue mAn AGement
World-class  
systems
Re Se Rv At Ion S SySte mS
11 call centres
12 languages
bRAn d PoRt Fol Io
Seven preferred  
hotel brands
PRIoRIt y Cl ub Rew ARd S
63 million members, 
contributing over $6.9bn to 
global system rooms revenue
mARket Cove RAGe
Leadership in 13  
of top 20 markets
SAl e S FoRCe
17,600 sales professionals
3,500 accounts
web/ mobIl e
11 language sites
Eight language apps
Food A n d be ve RAGe
Over $4.6bn of Food & 
Beverage revenue and  
over 4,500 outlets worldwide
SySt em Fund
Annual fund totalling $1.2bn 
to maintain marketing and 
systems that generate 
demand for our hotels
69% 
room revenue delivery BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 13
Crowne	 Plaza	 repositioning	 programme	 – the global repositioning  
of the Crowne Plaza brand launched in 2011 to bring every  
hotel up to a leading standard offering modern business and 
meetings facilities;
roomkey.com	 – an online search engine, founded by six of the 
world’s leading hotel companies – IHG, Choice Hotels International, 
Hilton, Hyatt, Marriot and Wyndham Hotel Group. The site provides 
consumers with the ability to compare and contrast room options 
across multiple hotel brands, ultimately booking on a hotel’s 
branded website; and
IHG	 Owners	 Association	 rebranding – the rebranding of the 
International Association of Holiday Inns (IAHI), the Owners’ 
Association as the IHG Owners Association to reflect more accurately 
its representation of the portfolio of IHG brands and demonstrate the 
Association’s commitment to the BrandHearted journey.
IHG is proud of its strong and important relationship with the IHG 
Owners Association, the organisation that represents owners of 
hotels under IHG’s brands across the world. IHG meets with the 
IHG Owners Association, in large and small groups, on a regular 
basis and works with them to support and facilitate the continued 
development of IHG’s brands and systems. During 2011, the 
combined work of the two organisations supported several 
enhancements to the IHG system. 
Examples include:
Holiday	 Inn	 relaunch	 – the near completion of the $1bn global 
relaunch of the Holiday Inn brand family delivered through joint 
owner and IHG investment;
In particular, we use the following measures to monitor our 
performance:
•  market share by rooms supply;
•  pricing and revenue premiums;
•  system contribution – the proportion of business delivered to our 
hotels by our dedicated IHG booking channels (our ‘system’);
•  employee engagement; and
•  responsible business practices.
These KPIs are used to measure the Group’s and our peoples’ 
progress on our journey to delivering Great Hotels Guests Love  
and becoming one of the great companies of the world.
We have a holistic set of carefully selected key performance 
indicators (KPIs) to monitor our success in achieving our strategy. 
These are organised around the elements of our strategy: ‘Where 
we compete’, focusing on the appropriate business model, best 
developed and emerging markets, and consumer segments; and 
‘How we win’, focusing on our corporate priorities of preferred 
brands, talented people, and best-in-class delivery. 
Measuring our success
Strategic	 priorities KPIs
Current	 status	 and	 	
2011	 development 2012	 priorities
best developed and  
emerging markets
To accelerate profitable 
growth of our core business  
in the largest markets where 
presence and scale really 
count, and also in key global 
gateway cities. Seeking 
opportunities to benefit from 
our scale in new business 
areas.
Net rooms supply
2009 2010 2011
632,325
647,161 658,348
■ Rooms opened
■ Rooms removed
2009 2010 2011
55,345
(28,517)
35,744
(35,262)
44,265
(33,078)
•  System size grown to 658,348 
rooms;
•  Over 90 per cent of signings  
in scale markets, key global 
gateway cities and resort 
destinations;
•  14 signings of Hotel Indigo and 
Staybridge Suites outside of 
North America; and
• 241 hotels opened globally.
•  Accelerate growth strategies 
in quality locations in agreed 
scale markets; and
•  continue to leverage scale.
Our performance against these KPIs over the 2009-2011 period is summarised in the following tables:
w here we compete
  	 14	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Strategic	 priorities KPIs
Current	 status	 and	 	
2011	 development 2012	 priorities
Preferred brands
To operate a portfolio of 
preferred brands attractive  
to both owners and guests 
that have clear market 
positions and differentiation in 
the eyes of the guest.
Global RevPAR growth/(decline)
Comparable hotels, constant $
(14.7)%
2011
6.2%
2010
6.2%
2009
•  Near completion of the Holiday 
Inn relaunch;
•  launched global repositioning 
programme for our Crowne 
Plaza brand;
•  developed two new brands to 
further capture opportunities in 
North America and China; and
•  grew our industry-leading 
loyalty programme to  
63 million members.
•  Build upon the success of the 
Holiday Inn relaunch with the 
repositioning of Crowne Plaza;
•  continue development of our 
brand portfolio with further 
signings of our newer brands 
in expanding markets; and
•  increase IHG business from 
Priority Club Rewards’ 
members.
t alented people
Creating hotels that are well 
run, with brands brought to 
life by people who are proud  
of the work they do.
Employee engagement scores
2009
Survey 
non-comparable
2010 2011
76%
78% •  Training delivered to all senior 
managers on brand leadership;
• training delivered to 60 per cent 
of franchised hotels to deliver 
our branded guest experience;
• jointly hosted our global 
recognition event – ‘Celebrate 
Service’ week – with the IHG 
Owners Association, with over 
3,000 hotels and offices 
participating; and
• supported 49 employees from 
22 countries to manage the 
athletes’ accommodation and 
placed 10 people in LOCOG 
head office roles, as part of our 
London 2012 Olympic and 
Paralympic sponsorship.
•  Strengthen brand capabilities, 
including cascading brand 
training to all our leaders;
• strengthen IHG’s employment 
brand, particularly through the 
use of new media to make the 
Group an employer of choice;
• develop our talent pipeline to 
meet our commercial goals; 
and
• continue to develop compelling 
people offer to our 
franchisees.
best-in-class delivery
To generate higher returns  
for owners and IHG through 
increased revenue share, 
improved operating efficiency 
and growing margins.
Total gross revenue
Actual $bn
2009 2010 2011
16.8
18.7
20.2
System contribution to revenue
(reservations channels and 
Priority Club Rewards’ members 
direct to hotels) 
As percentage of rooms revenue
2009 2010 2011
68% 68% 69%
•  Strengthened revenue streams 
from mobile booking channels; 
•  established strategic industry 
partnerships to develop 
roomkey.com; 
•  strengthened coverage of our 
global sales force; and
•  grew our industry-leading 
loyalty programme, 
contributing over $6.9bn to 
global system rooms revenue.
•  Optimise revenue from 
third-party, partner and IHG 
websites;
•  strengthen global sales force 
effectiveness; and
•  ensure IHG’s industry-leading 
system of delivering demand 
and revenue to hotels retains 
competitive advantage.
Responsible business
To take a proactive stance  
and seek creative solutions 
through innovation and 
collaboration on environment 
and community issues, and to 
drive increased value for IHG, 
owners, guests and the 
communities in which  
we operate.
Hotels signed-up to ‘Green Engage’
Hotels, cumulative
2009 2010 2011
911
1,772
1,122
Pupils enrolled with ‘IHG Academy’
Students enrolled
2010 2011
4,800
5,608
2009
Pilot stage
•  Exceeded our ‘Green Engage’ 
programme target to enrol 
1,700 hotels;
•  ‘IHG Academy’ programme 
expanded to every IHG operating 
region and student participation 
up by 17 per cent; and
•  led a Cornell University study 
on developing an industry 
standard for carbon 
measurement.
•  Enrol 50 per cent of IHG hotels in 
‘Green Engage’ by the end of 2012;
•  achieve energy savings of six per 
cent to 10 per cent in our owned and 
managed estate by end of 2012 (on 
a per available room night basis);
•  continue to drive carbon 
strategy work to develop an 
industry standard for measuring 
carbon emission reduction;
•  create new opportunities for 
communities by growing the 
‘IHG Academy’ to more 
countries and increasing the 
student base; and
•  continue to use social media to 
drive stakeholder engagement.
How we win – Delivering Great Hotels Guests Love BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 15
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue   
 Americas 	 830 807 2.9
 Europe 	 405 326 2.4
 AMEA 	 216 213 1.4
 Greater China 	 205 178 15.2
 Central 	 112 104 7.7
   	 1,768 1,628 8.6
Operating	 profit
 Americas 	 451 369 22.2
 Europe 	 104 78 33.3
 AMEA 	 84 82 2.4
 Greater China 	 67 54 24.1
 Central 	 (147) (139) (5.8)
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 	 559 444 25.9
Exceptional operating items 	 35 15 133.3
   594 459 29.4
Net financial expenses   (62) (62) –
Profit before tax  532 397 34.0
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share
Basic 	 159.2¢ 101.7¢ 56.5
Adjusted 	 	 130.4¢ 98.6¢ 32.3
Revenue increased by 8.6% to $1,768m and operating profit  
before exceptional items increased by 25.9% to $559m during  
the 12 months ended 31 December 2011. 
The 2011 results reflect continued RevPAR growth, with an overall 
RevPAR increase of 6.2%, including a 2.5% increase in average daily 
rate. The results also benefit from overall system size growth of 
1.7% year-on-year to 658,348 rooms. RevPAR growth remained 
strong throughout the year across the Group although there was 
some deterioration in Europe in the fourth quarter reflecting 
macroeconomic conditions.
Operating profit improved in each of the regions. RevPAR growth  
of 7.5% and 4.7% in The Americas and Europe respectively helped  
to drive operating profit increases of $82m and $26m in these 
regions. Operating profit in AMEA rose by $2m despite an estimated 
adverse impact of the events of the Arab Spring and the natural 
disasters in Japan and New Zealand of $11m. Continued strong 
economic growth in Greater China led to operating profit growth  
of $13m as RevPAR grew by 10.7% and system size increased  
by 13.7%.
At constant currency, central overheads increased from $139m  
in 2010 to $143m in 2011 ($147m at actual currency), driven by 
increased investment to support growth in the business, offsetting 
non-recurring bonus costs.
As a result of growth in the business, together with strong cost 
control, operating profit margin was 40.6%, up 4.9 percentage 
points on 2010, after adjusting for owned and leased hotels,  
The Americas and Europe managed leases and significant 
liquidated damages received in 2011. This growth approximates  
to one percentage point after adjusting for a number of one-off 
benefits.
The average US dollar exchange rate to sterling weakened during 
2011 (2011 $1=£0.62; 2010 $1=£0.65). Translated at constant 
currency, applying 2010 exchange rates, revenue increased  
by 6.8% and operating profit increased by 24.8%.
Profit before tax increased by $135m from $397m in 2010 to $532m. 
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share increased by 32.3% to 130.4¢.
Group performance
Group	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $bn $bn change
InterContinental 	 4.4 4.2 4.8
Crowne Plaza 	 3.9 3.5 11.4
Holiday Inn 	 6.0 5.8 3.4
Holiday Inn Express 	 4.4 4.0 10.0
Staybridge Suites 	 0.6 0.5 20.0
Candlewood Suites 	 0.5 0.4 25.0
Other  	 0.4 0.3 33.3
Total 	 20.2 18.7 8.0
Total	 gross	 revenue
One measure of overall IHG hotel system performance is the 
growth in total gross revenue, defined as total room revenue from 
franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned 
and leased hotels. Total gross revenue is not revenue attributable 
to IHG, as it is derived mainly from hotels owned by third-parties. 
Total gross revenue increased by 8.0% from $18.7bn in 2010 to 
$20.2bn in 2011. All brands grew total gross revenue, with 
increases of over 10% compared to 2010 in a number of key brands. 	 16	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand
 InterContinental	 169 (2)	 57,598 (831)
 Crowne Plaza	 387 (1)	 105,104 (1,051)
 Holiday Inn*	 1,240 (7)	 228,256 (1,861)
 Holiday Inn Express 2,114 39	 196,666 5,438
 Staybridge Suites	 179 (9)	 19,567 (1,195)
 Candlewood Suites	 285 (3)	 27,500 (753)
 Hotel Indigo	 39 1	 4,564 16
 Other	 67 25	 19,093 11,424
Total	 4,480 43	 658,348 11,187
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	 3,832 49	 489,071 9,751
 Managed	 637 (2)	 164,993 2,282
 Owned and leased	 11 (4)	 4,284 (846)
Total	 4,480 43	 658,348 11,187
* Included 7 Holiday Inn Club Vacations (2,928 rooms) (2010: 6 hotels, 2,892 rooms).
During 2011, the IHG global system (the number of hotels and 
rooms which are franchised, managed, owned or leased by  
the Group) increased by 43 hotels (11,187 rooms). Openings of  
241 hotels (44,265 rooms) were driven by continued expansion  
in the US, in particular within the Holiday Inn brand family and 
Greater China. These openings offset the removal of 198 hotels 
(33,078 rooms). Removals in the US included 43 hotels (6,994 rooms) 
which were removed from the system as part of the renegotiation  
of the management contract with Hospitality Properties Trust,  
a major US owner group. Other openings included the Venetian  
and Palazzo resorts, under an InterContinental Alliance relationship 
(6,986 rooms, included in franchised) as well as 25 hotels  
(4,796 rooms) managed on US army bases. 
Global	 hotel	 and	 room	 count
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	 51 (9)	 17,623 (1,751)
 Crowne Plaza	 108 (15)	 34,643 (4,351)
 Holiday Inn*	 267 (46)	 50,750 (6,755)
 Holiday Inn Express	 470 (24)	 52,201 (1,018)
 Staybridge Suites	 95 (6)	 10,026 (734)
 Candlewood Suites	 94 (26)	 8,062 (2,444)
 Hotel Indigo	 59 (3)	 7,179 (448)
 Other	 – (2)	– (6,874)
Total	 1,144 (131)	 180,484 (24,375)
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised  853 (117)	 96,513 (17,427)
 Managed 291 (14)	 83,971 (6,948)
Total 1,144 (131)	 180,484 (24,375)
* Included 1 Holiday Inn Club Vacations (658 rooms) (2010: nil).
Global	 pipeline	 signings
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Total	 356	 37	 55,424	 (174)
Global	 pipeline
At the end of 2011, the pipeline totalled 1,144 hotels (180,484 rooms). 
The IHG pipeline represents hotels and rooms where a contract  
has been signed and the appropriate fees paid. The continued 
global demand for IHG brands is demonstrated by over 50% of 
pipeline rooms being outside of The Americas region, including  
28% in Greater China.
Signings of 356 hotels (55,424 rooms) represented an increase  
in the number of hotels signed from 2010 levels (319 hotels). 
Momentum for the Hotel Indigo brand continued into 2011 with  
19 signings, including entry into the Russian market as well as  
the first Hotel Indigo resort in Phuket, Thailand.
During 2011, the opening of 44,265 rooms contributed to a net 
pipeline decline of 24,375 rooms. Active management out of the 
pipeline of deals that have become dormant or no longer viable 
contributed a reduction of 35,534 rooms. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 17
The a mericas
Americas	 strategic	 role	 2012	 priorities
To maximise the performance and growth of our portfolio of 
preferred brands, focusing on our core midscale and upscale 
segments, mostly through franchise agreements.
•  Execute our strategic plans to become a BrandHearted 
organisation by delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and increasing 
revenue share;
•  successfully launch a new midscale brand;
•  build upon the success of the Holiday Inn relaunch by improving 
hotel performance and unit growth;
•  execute the multi-year programme to reposition Crowne Plaza; and
•  further deploy IHG tools throughout the franchised estate, across 
revenue management, channel management, responsible 
business practices and People Tools.
Americas	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue   
 Franchised  	 502 465 8.0
 Managed 	 124 119 4.2
 Owned and leased 	 204 223 (8.5)
Total 	 830 807 2.9
Operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items
 Franchised  	 431 392 9.9
 Managed 	 52 21 147.6
 Owned and leased 	 17 13 30.8
  	 500 426 17.4
Regional overheads 	 (49) (57) 14.0
Total  	 451 369 22.2
Americas	 comparable	 RevPAR	 movement	 on	 previous	 year
  12 months ended 
  31 December 2011
Franchised 
 Crowne Plaza    6.0%
 Holiday Inn    6.3%
 Holiday Inn Express    7.9%
 All brands    7.2%
Managed 
 InterContinental    8.6%
 Crowne Plaza    8.8%
 Holiday Inn    9.9%
 Staybridge Suites    8.0%
 Candlewood Suites    8.1%
 All brands    8.8%
Owned and leased 
 InterContinental    11.7%
Revenue and operating profit before exceptional items increased by 
$23m (2.9%) to $830m and by $82m (22.2%) to $451m respectively.
Franchised revenue increased by $37m (8.0%) to $502m. Royalties 
growth of 8.5% was driven by RevPAR gains across the estate of 
7.2%, including 7.9% for Holiday Inn Express, and was further 
boosted by continued improvement in the royalty rate achieved. 
Operating profit increased by $39m (9.9%) to $431m also benefiting 
from lower bad debt experience.
Managed revenue increased by $5m (4.2%) to $124m and operating 
profit increased by $31m (147.6%) to $52m. Revenue and operating 
profit included $59m (2010 $71m) and $1m (2010 $1m) respectively 
from properties that are structured, for legal reasons, as operating 
leases but with the same characteristics as management contracts. 
Excluding properties operated under this arrangement, as well as 
the benefit of a $10m liquidated damages receipt in 2011 and a $10m 
year-on-year benefit from the conclusion of a specific guarantee 
negotiation relating to one hotel, revenue grew by $7m. Growth was 
driven by a RevPAR increase of 8.8% across the estate. Although 
year-end system size was 6.0% lower than at the end of 2010, due to 
the phasing of removals towards the end of the year, rooms available 
during the year actually grew by 4.5%. Operating profit grew by  
$11m on the same basis, also benefiting from increased joint 
venture distributions.
Owned and leased revenue declined by $19m (8.5%) and operating 
profit grew by $4m (30.8%) to $17m. In the first half of the year, 
Staybridge Suites Denver Cherry Creek was sold and converted to  
a franchise contract, whilst Holiday Inn Atlanta-Gwinnett Place and 
Hotel Indigo San Diego were sold and converted to management 
contracts. Excluding the year-on-year impact of these and prior 
year disposals, owned and leased revenue grew by $8m (4.2%) and 
operating profit by $7m (77.8%) reflecting RevPAR growth of  
10.3%, including 11.2% at the InterContinental New York Barclay. 
Operating profit for 2011 includes a $4m year-on-year benefit from 
lower depreciation recorded for the InterContinental New York 
Barclay since the hotel was categorised as ‘held for sale’ in the  
first quarter of 2011, subsequent to which no depreciation was 
charged. Operating profit growth was, however, adversely impacted 
by $3m of one off re-organisation costs relating to one hotel in 2011. 
Regional overheads decreased by $8m (14.0%) to $49m, mainly 
reflecting a year-on-year reduction of $6m in costs for claims  
in a self-insured healthcare benefit plan. 	 18	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	 52 (4)	 17,598 (1,522)
 Crowne Plaza	 188 (21)	 50,002 (7,071)
 Holiday Inn*	 816 (2)	 145,821 (1,754)
 Holiday Inn Express	 1,874 27	 162,935 3,068
 Staybridge Suites	 174 (9)	 18,820 (1,194)
 Candlewood Suites	 285 (3)	 27,500 (753)
 Hotel Indigo	 33 (2)	 3,973 (281)
 Other 	 51 29	 15,549 12,330
Total	 3,473 15	 442,198 2,823
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	 3,266 36	 398,680 6,144
 Managed	 201 (18)	 41,222 (2,626)
 Owned and leased	6 (3)	 2,296 (695)
Total	 3,473 15	 442,198 2,823
* Included 7 Holiday Inn Club Vacations (2,928 rooms) (2010: 6 hotels, 2,892 rooms).
The Americas hotel and room count in the year increased by 
15 hotels (2,823 rooms) to 3,473 hotels (442,198 rooms). Openings  
of 168 hotels (27,107 rooms) included the Venetian and Palazzo 
resorts, under an InterContinental Alliance relationship (6,986 
rooms, included in franchised) and 25 hotels managed as part  
of the US government’s Privatization of Army Lodgings initiative. 
The Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express brands generated 
openings of 113 hotels (12,269 rooms) and IHG’s extended stay 
brands, Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites, achieved 
openings of 22 hotels (2,036 rooms). Removals of 153 hotels (24,284 
rooms) were mainly from Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn hotels, and 
included 43 hotels (6,994 rooms) which were removed as part of the 
renegotiation of the management contract with Hospitality 
Properties Trust. 
Americas	 hotel	 and	 room	 count
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	5 –	 1,340 –
 Crowne Plaza	 22 (5)	 5,249 (420)
 Holiday Inn*	 158 (29)	 22,051 (3,209)
 Holiday Inn Express	 372 (35)	 34,360 (2,651)
 Staybridge Suites	 86 (10)	 8,895 (1,221)
 Candlewood Suites	 94 (26)	 8,062 (2,444)
 Hotel Indigo	 38 (8)	 4,493 (1,240)
 Other 	 – (2)	– (6,874)
Total	 775 (115)	 84,450 (18,059)
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised	 765 (113)	 82,287 (17,785)
 Managed	 10 (2)	 2,163 (274)
Total	 775 (115)	 	 84,450 (18,059)
* Included 1 Holiday Inn Club Vacations (658 rooms) (2010: nil).
Americas	 pipeline
The Americas pipeline totalled 775 hotels (84,450 rooms) as at 
31 December 2011. Overall signings of 30,109 rooms were in line 
with 2010 levels. Notable signings included Hotel Indigo properties 
in Guadalajara and Boca del Rio in Mexico, as well as Lower East 
Side, Manhattan in the US. The overall pipeline reduced by  
115 hotels (18,059 rooms) compared to 2010. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 19
Europe	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue   
 Franchised  	 86 76 13.2
 Managed 	 118 70 68.6
 Owned and leased 	 201 180 11.7
Total 	 405 326 24.2
Operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items
 Franchised  	 65 55 18.2
 Managed 	 26 17 52.9
 Owned and leased 	 49 38 28.9
  	 140 110 27.3
Regional overheads 	 (36) (32) (12.5)
Total  	 104 78 33.3
Europe	 comparable	 RevPAR	 movement	 on	 previous	 year
  12 months ended 
  31 December 2011
Franchised 
 All brands    4.0%
Managed 
 All brands    5.5%
Owned and leased 
 InterContinental    10.9%
Revenue and operating profit before exceptional items increased by 
$79m (24.2%) to $405m and by $26m (33.3%) to $104m respectively.
Franchised revenue increased by $10m (13.2%) to $86m and 
operating profit by $10m (18.2%) to $65m. At constant currency, 
revenue increased by 7.9% and operating profit increased by  
12.7%. Growth was mainly driven by royalties growth of 11.4% (5.9% 
at constant currency) reflecting RevPAR growth of 4.0%, together 
with an increase in system size. Revenues associated with new 
signings, relicensing and terminations increased by $2m.
Managed revenue increased by $48m to $118m (68.6%) and 
operating profit increased by $9m to $26m (52.9%). At constant 
currency, revenue increased by 61.4% whilst operating profit 
increased by 47.1%. During the year, two properties were converted 
from management contracts to an operating lease structure with 
the same characteristics as management contracts. Revenues 
recorded under the operating lease structure were $46m in 2011 
(2010 $nil), with operating profits of $nil (2010 $nil). Excluding the 
impact of properties under the operating lease structure and on a 
constant currency basis, operating profit increased by $8m (47.1%) 
reflecting RevPAR growth of 5.5%, together with the year-on-year 
benefit of a $3m charge in 2010 with regard to guarantee 
obligations for one hotel. On the same basis, revenue fell slightly as 
a result of a minor change in the allocation of income to the 
managed estate.
In the owned and leased estate, revenue increased by $21m (11.7%) 
to $201m and operating profit increased by $11m (28.9%), or at 
constant currency by 6.7% and 21.1% respectively. During the year, 
IHG exited from the lease for Holiday Inn Express Essen, with a 
minor impact on revenue and operating profit. RevPAR growth  
of 10.9% benefited from average daily rate growth of 10.3% across 
the year.  
The InterContinental London Park Lane and the InterContinental  
Paris Le Grand delivered strong year-on-year RevPAR growth  
of 7.3% and 14.5% respectively. 
europe
Europe	 strategic	 role	 2012	 priorities
To focus growth in priority markets and across key cities,  
and improve underlying margin through better operational 
performance.
•  Execute our strategic plans to become a BrandHearted 
organisation by delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and increasing 
revenue share in our chosen markets;
•  strengthen our brand portfolio by building upon the success of the 
Holiday Inn relaunch and expanding the footprint of Hotel Indigo;
•  drive awareness through strategic partnerships including 
sponsorship of London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games; and
•  deliver operational excellence and responsible business practices 
at our hotels and localise systems and tools to strengthen revenue 
out-performance. 	 20	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand
 InterContinental	 30 –	 9,664 (341)
 Crowne Plaza	 86 8	 19,725 2,078
 Holiday Inn	 290 (8)	 46,465 (1,313)
 Holiday Inn Express	 198 10	 23,181 1,515
 Staybridge Suites	3 –	 443 –
 Hotel Indigo	5 3	 407 297
Total	 612 13	 99,885 2,236
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	 509 14	 76,811 2,356
 Managed	 101 –	 22,157 33
 Owned and leased	2 (1)	 917 (153)
Total	 612 13	 99,885 2,236
During 2011, Europe system size increased by 13 hotels (a net 
increase of 2,236 rooms) to 612 hotels (99,885 rooms). Activity 
included openings of 37 hotels (6,167 rooms), an increase from  
27 hotels and 4,419 rooms in 2010, and removals of 24 hotels  
(3,931 rooms). The net decrease of eight Holiday Inn hotels 
comprised nine openings and 17 removals, five of which relate  
to the Holiday Inn brand relaunch. There were three Hotel Indigo 
openings in the UK in 2011, bringing the total Hotel Indigo count for 
Europe to five. Two InterContinental hotels, in Moscow and Porto, 
opened in 2011, representing a re-entry for the brand into the 
Russian and Portuguese markets.
 
Europe	 hotel	 and	 room	 count
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	5 (5)	 1,310 (710)
 Crowne Plaza	 12 (3)	 2,953 (935)
 Holiday Inn	 25 (4)	 4,939 (878)
 Holiday Inn Express	 43 –	 5,942 218
 Staybridge Suites	2 –	 283 –
 Hotel Indigo	 11 –	 1,255 183
Total	 98 (12)	 16,682 (2,122)
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised	 82 (1)	 11,999 (166)
 Managed	 16 (11)	 4,683 (1,956)
Total	 98 (12)	 16,682 (2,122)
There were 38 hotel signings (5,779 rooms) in 2011, down from  
51 hotel signings (7,479 rooms) in 2010, strengthening IHG’s 
presence in established markets such as the UK, Germany and the 
Netherlands and extending into newer markets such as Turkey and 
Russia. Demand was particularly strong in the midscale segment 
which represented 65% of room signings. There were five further 
signings for IHG’s lifestyle brand, Hotel Indigo, including further 
expansion in the UK and entry into the Russian market. There were 
also seven Crowne Plaza signings including three in the developing 
Turkish market.
Europe	 pipeline BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 21
AMEA	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue   
 Franchised  	 19 15 26.7
 Managed 	 151 155 (2.6)
 Owned and leased 	 46 43 7.0
Total 	 216 213 1.4
Operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items
 Franchised  	 12 8 50.0
 Managed 	 87 88 (1.1)
 Owned and leased 	5 4 25.0
  	 104 100 4.0
Regional overheads 	 (20) (18) (11.1)
Total  	 84 82 2.4
AMEA	 comparable	 RevPAR	 movement	 on	 previous	 year
  12 months ended 
  31 December 2011
Franchised
 All brands    1.7%
Managed
 All brands    0.6%
Revenue and operating profit before exceptional items increased  
by $3m (1.4%) to $216m and by $2m (2.4%) to $84m respectively. 
The region’s results were adversely impacted by the political 
instability throughout 2011 in the Middle East, together with the 
natural disasters in Japan and New Zealand.
Franchised revenue increased by $4m (26.7%) to $19m and 
operating profit by $4m (50.0%) to $12m. At constant currency, 
revenue increased by 20.0% and operating profit increased by 
37.5%, which includes four properties which were converted  
from management contracts to franchise arrangements during  
the year. RevPAR in the franchised estate grew by 1.7%. Excluding 
Egypt, Bahrain and Japan, RevPAR grew by 4.4%.
Managed revenue decreased by $4m (2.6%) to $151m and  
operating profit decreased by $1m (1.1%) to $87m. At constant 
currency, revenue decreased by 7.7% and operating profit by 5.7%. 
The events of the Arab Spring together with the natural disasters  
in Japan and New Zealand had an estimated adverse impact of 
$11m on the results, whilst there was a further $4m adverse 
impact due to changes to certain management contract terms. 
Results did however benefit from a liquidated damages receipt of 
$6m during the year. RevPAR grew by 0.6% compared to 2010 and 
by 5.7% excluding Egypt, Bahrain and Japan. 
In the owned and leased estate, revenue increased by $3m (7.0%)  
to $46m and operating profit increased by $1m (25.0%), or at 
constant currency by 9.3% and 25.0% respectively. 
a sia, Middle east and a frica (a Mea )
AMEA	 strategic	 role	 2012	 priorities
To drive profitable growth in emerging markets, key cities and 
resort locations.
•  Execute our strategic plans to become a BrandHearted 
organisation by delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and increasing 
revenue share;
•  grow distribution of our brands in key strategic markets, especially 
India and resort locations;
•  strengthen Holiday Inn Express, building upon the success of the 
Holiday Inn relaunch; and
•  where appropriate, localise IHG channels, systems, processes, 
brands, responsible business practices and People Tools to 
maximise efficiency, talent development, consumer preference  
and margin performance. 	 22	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand
 InterContinental	 64 (2)	 20,425 (193)
 Crowne Plaza	 61 3	 16,921 932
 Holiday Inn	 77 (2)	 18,032 (341)
 Holiday Inn Express	 8 (3)	 1,857 (278)
 Staybridge Suites	2 –	 304 (1)
 Other	 16 (3)	 3,544 (646)
Total	 228 (7)	 61,083 (527)
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	 54 (1)	 12,617 1,257
 Managed	 172 (6)	 47,890 (1,786)
 Owned and leased	2 –	 576 2
Total	 228 (7)	 61,083 (527)
 
AMEA hotel and room count decreased by seven hotels (527 rooms) 
to 228 hotels (61,083 rooms). Openings of 10 hotels (2,907 rooms)  
were offset by the removal of 17 hotels (3,434 rooms). Hotel 
openings were mainly in the Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn brands, 
including notably the entry of the Crowne Plaza brand into the 
Vietnam market (in West Hanoi and Danang) and a second Holiday 
Inn resort in Phuket, Thailand.
AMEA	 hotel	 and	 room	 count
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	 19 (7)	 5,094 (2,142)
 Crowne Plaza	 21 (5)	 6,729 (1,605)
 Holiday Inn	 43 (13)	 10,380 (3,229)
 Holiday Inn Express	 27 12	 5,681 2,293
 Staybridge Suites	7 4	 848 487
 Hotel Indigo	5 3	 852 470
Total	 122 (6)	 29,584 (3,726)
Analysed by ownership type 
 Franchised 	4 (3)	 852 (525)
 Managed	 118 (3)	 28,732 (3,201)
Total	 122 (6)	 29,584 (3,726)
Signings increased from 27 hotels (6,410 rooms) in 2010 to 36 hotels 
(7,424 rooms) in 2011, mainly within the Holiday Inn brand family  
(23 hotels or 5,037 rooms), including five Holiday Inn Express hotels 
as part of a deal with Duet India Hotels Group. In addition, there 
were three new signings for Hotel Indigo, in Jakarta and Riyadh, as 
well as the world’s first Hotel Indigo resort in Phuket, Thailand.
Pipeline signings were offset by active management out of the 
pipeline of deals which were dormant or no longer viable, including 
a number of exits in the Middle East reflecting increased 
uncertainty in the region.
AMEA	 pipeline BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 23
Greater	 China	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue   
 Franchised  	2 2 –
 Managed 	 77 60 28.3
 Owned and leased 	 126 116 8.6
Total 	 205 178 15.2
Operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items
 Franchised  	3 3 –
 Managed 	 43 30 43.3
 Owned and leased 	 37 33 12.1
  	 83 66 25.8
Regional overheads 	 (16) (12) (33.3)
Total  	 67 54 24.1
Greater	 China	 comparable	 RevPAR	 movement	 on	 previous	 year
  12 months ended 
  31 December 2011
Managed
 All brands    10.3%
Owned and leased
 InterContinental    13.4%
Revenue and operating profit before exceptional items increased by 
$27m (15.2%) to $205m and by $13m (24.1%) to $67m respectively.
Managed revenue increased by $17m (28.3%) to $77m and 
operating profit increased by $13m (43.3%) to $43m. At constant 
currency, revenue increased by 26.7% and operating profit 
increased by 43.3%. Continued strong economic growth in the 
region helped to drive RevPAR growth of 10.3%. Excluding 
Shanghai, where RevPAR growth was tempered by strong 
comparatives due to the World Expo held in May to October 2010, 
comparable RevPAR grew by 17.4%. There was also continued 
significant system size growth for the managed estate in the  
region (14.2% rooms growth in 2011 and 12.6% in 2010). 
On both a constant and actual currency basis, owned and leased 
revenue increased by $10m (8.6%) to $126m and operating profit 
increased by $4m (12.1%) to $37m. The InterContinental Hong Kong 
generated RevPAR growth of 13.4%.
Regional costs increased by $4m to $16m (33.3%), reflecting 
increased investment in operations and infrastructure in the  
region to support the growth of IHG’s brands.
Greater China
Greater	 China	 strategic	 role	 2012	 priorities
China will remain a key strategic market where we can 
maximise scale and establish local operating expertise to drive 
margin and expand our strong portfolio of brands.
•  Execute our strategic plans to become a BrandHearted 
organisation by delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and increasing 
revenue share;
•  grow distribution and expand our portfolio of brands with a 
particular focus on our new Chinese upscale brand;
•  extend IHG’s leading presence in the market with strategic 
distribution of brands in established and emerging cities in China;
•  build upon the success of the Holiday Inn relaunch to continue to 
grow the Holiday Inn brand family; and
•  localise IHG channels, systems, processes, brands, responsible 
business practices and People Tools to increase efficiency, talent 
development, consumer preference and margin performance. 	 24	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand
 InterContinental	 23 4	 9,911 1,225
 Crowne Plaza	 52 9	 18,456 3,010
 Holiday Inn	 57 5	 17,938 1,547
 Holiday Inn Express	 34 5	 8,693 1,133
 Hotel Indigo	1 –	 184 –
 Other	 – (1)	– (260)
Total	 167 22	 55,182 6,655
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	3 –	 963 (6)
 Managed	 163 22	 53,724 6,661
 Owned and leased	1 –	 495 –
Total	 167 22	 55,182 6,655
 
Greater China hotel and room count increased by 22 hotels  
(6,655 rooms) to 167 hotels (55,182 rooms). Growth was driven by 
openings of 26 hotels (8,084 rooms), higher than in 2010 (24 hotels 
or 7,253 rooms). The majority of openings were in the upscale 
brands in 2011, including the InterContinental One Thousand Island 
Lake Resort which is the first IHG resort in East China, whilst there 
were 12 openings for the Holiday Inn brand family, including five 
Holiday Inn Express hotels.
Greater	 China	 hotel	 and	 room	 count
   Hotels  Rooms
   Change  Change 
At 31 December	 2011 over 2010	 2011 over 2010 
Analysed by brand    
 InterContinental	 22 3	 9,879 1,101
 Crowne Plaza	 53 (2)	 19,712 (1,391)
 Holiday Inn	 41 –	 13,380 561
 Holiday Inn Express	 28 (1)	 6,218 (878)
 Hotel Indigo	5 2	 579 139
Total	 149 2	 49,768 (468)
Analysed by ownership type
 Franchised 	2 –	 1,375 1,049
 Managed	 147 2	 48,393 (1,517)
Total	 149 2	 49,768 (468)
The pipeline in Greater China increased by two hotels to 149 hotels. 
There were 38 hotels signed during 2011 (12,112 rooms) compared 
to 40 hotels (11,486 rooms) in 2010. Demand was strong for both 
upscale and midscale brands. Signings were split between  
21 hotels in the upscale brands (InterContinental, Crowne Plaza 
and Hotel Indigo) and 17 hotels within the midscale Holiday Inn 
brand family (including five for Holiday Inn Express).
Key signings include Holiday Inn in Macau with Sands China Ltd, 
which will be the world’s largest Holiday Inn, with 1,224 rooms,  
and Hotel Indigo Haitang Bay, which will be the first Hotel Indigo  
to open in a resort location in Greater China.
Greater	 China	 pipeline BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 25
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Revenue 	 112 104 7.7
Gross central costs 	 (259) (243) (6.6)
Net central costs 	 (147) (139) (5.8)
During 2011, net central costs increased by $8m from $139m to 
$147m (5.8%). At constant currency, net central costs increased  
by $4m (2.9%). The movement was primarily driven by increased 
investment to support growth in the business. Central revenue 
mainly comprised technology fee income.
Central
Central	 results
   12 months ended 31 December
	 	 	 2011 2010 %  
 	 	 $m $m change
Assessment fees and contributions
received from hotels 	 1,025 944 8.6
Proceeds from sale of Priority  
Club Rewards points 	 128 106 20.8
   	 1,153 1,050 9.8
In the year to 31 December 2011, System Fund (the Fund) income 
increased by 9.8% to $1.2bn primarily as a result of growth in hotel 
room revenues and marketing programmes. The increase in 
proceeds from the sale of Priority Club Rewards points mainly 
reflects the strong performance of co-brand credit card schemes .
In addition to management or franchise fees, hotels within the  
IHG system pay cash assessments and contributions which are 
collected by IHG for specific use within the Fund. The Fund also 
receives proceeds from the sale of Priority Club Rewards points. 
The Fund is managed for the benefit of hotels in the system with  
the objective of driving revenues for the hotels. 
The Fund is used to pay for marketing, the Priority Club Rewards 
loyalty programme and the global reservation system. The 
operation of the Fund does not result in a profit or loss for the 
Group and consequently the revenues and expenses of the Fund  
are not included in the Group income statement.
System Fund
System	 Fund	 results
Exceptional	 operating	 items
Exceptional operating items totalled a net gain of $35m. Exceptional 
gains included $37m from the disposal of hotels, including $29m 
profit on the sale of the Holiday Inn Burswood, a UK VAT refund of 
$9m, $20m net impairment reversals and a $28m pension 
curtailment gain in relation to the closure of the UK defined benefit 
pension scheme. Exceptional charges included a $22m litigation 
provision and $37m in respect of the settlement of a prior period 
commercial dispute in Europe.
Exceptional operating items are treated as exceptional by reason of 
their size or nature and are excluded from the calculation of 
adjusted earnings per ordinary share in order to provide a more 
meaningful comparison of performance.
Net	 financial	 expenses
Net financial expenses remained flat at $62m as costs relating to 
the new syndicated bank facility offset the impact of lower levels of 
net debt.
Financing costs included $1m (2010 $2m) of interest costs 
associated with Priority Club Rewards where interest is charged  
on the accumulated balance of cash received in advance of the 
redemption points awarded. Financing costs in 2011 also included 
$18m (2010 $18m) in respect of the InterContinental Boston finance 
lease.
Other financial information 	 26	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Taxation
The effective rate of tax on the combined profit from continuing and 
discontinued operations, excluding the impact of exceptional items, 
was 24% (2010 26%). By excluding the impact of prior year items, 
which are included wholly within continuing operations, the 
equivalent tax rate would be 36% (2010 35%). This rate is higher 
than the average UK statutory rate of 26.5% due mainly to certain 
overseas profits (particularly in the US) being subject to statutory 
rates higher than the UK statutory rate, unrelieved foreign taxes 
and disallowable expenses. 
Taxation within exceptional items totalled a credit of $48m  
(2010 charge of $8m) in respect of continuing operations. This 
represented the release of exceptional provisions relating to tax 
matters which were settled during the year, or in respect of which 
the statutory limitation period had expired, together with tax relief 
on exceptional costs and tax arising on disposals.
Net tax paid in 2011 totalled $90m (2010 $68m) including $1m paid 
(2010 $4m) in respect of disposals. Tax paid represents an effective 
rate of 17% (2010 17%) on total profits and is lower than the effective 
income statement tax rate of 24% primarily due to the impact of 
deferred taxes (including the realisation of assets such as tax 
losses), the receipt of refunds in respect of prior years and 
provisions for tax for which no payment of tax has currently  
been made.
IHG pursues a tax strategy that is consistent with its business 
strategy and its overall business conduct principles. This strategy 
seeks to ensure full compliance with all tax filing, payment and 
reporting obligations on the basis of communicative and 
transparent relationships with tax authorities. Policies and 
procedures related to tax risk management are subject to regular 
review and update and are approved by the Board. 
Tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated, in 
particular as a result of changes in tax law, changes in the 
interpretation of tax law, or clarification of uncertainties in the 
application of tax law. Procedures to minimise risk include the 
preparation of thorough tax risk assessments for all transactions 
carrying tax risk and, where appropriate, material tax uncertainties 
are discussed and resolved with tax authorities in advance. 
IHG’s contribution to the jurisdictions in which it operates includes a 
significant contribution in the form of taxes borne and collected, 
including taxes on its revenues and profits and in respect of the 
employment its business generates.
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share
Basic earnings per ordinary share in 2011 was 159.2¢, compared 
with 101.7¢ in 2010. Adjusted earnings per ordinary share was 
130.4¢, against 98.6¢ in 2010. 
Dividends
The Board has proposed a final dividend per ordinary share of  
39.0¢ (24.7p). With the interim dividend per ordinary share of 16.0¢ 
(9.8p), the full-year dividend per ordinary share for 2011 will total 
55.0¢ (34.5p).
Share	 price	 and	 market	 capitalisation
The IHG share price closed at £11.57 on 31 December 2011, down 
from £12.43 on 31 December 2010. The market capitalisation of the 
Group at the year end was £3.4bn.
Capital	 structure	 and	 liquidity	 management
	 2011 2010 
Net	 debt*	 at	 31	 December	 $m $m
Borrowings:
 US dollar   	 715 715
 Euro   	– 100
 Other   	5 6
Cash   	 (182) (78)
Net debt  	 538 743
Average debt levels  	 721 923
* Including the impact of currency derivatives.
	 2011 2010 
Facilities	 at	 31	 December	 $m $m
Committed   	 1,075 1,605
Uncommitted   	 79 53
Total   	 1,154 1,658
	
Interest	 risk	 profile	 of	 gross	 debt 	 2011 2010 
for	 major	 currencies	 at	 31	 December	% %
At fixed rates   	 100 100
	
During the year, $479m of cash was generated from operating 
activities, with the other key elements of the cash flow being:
•  proceeds from the disposal of hotels of $142m, including  
$71m from the sale of the Holiday Inn Burswood on 1 July 2011 
and $55m from the sale of the Hotel Indigo San Diego on  
17 June 2011; and
•  capital expenditure of $194m including a $12m equity stake in 
Summit Hotel Properties, Inc., a $31m investment in joint 
ventures and a $37m deposit paid to a hotel owner in connection 
with the renegotiation of a management contract.
The Group refinanced its bank debt in November 2011, putting in 
place a five-year $1.07bn syndicated bank facility which matures  
in November 2016. This facility was substantially undrawn at the 
year end.
In December 2009, the Group issued a seven-year £250m public 
bond, at a coupon of 6%. The £250m was immediately swapped into 
US dollar debt using currency swaps. 
Additional funding is provided by a finance lease on the 
InterContinental Boston.
Net debt at 31 December 2011 was $538m, a decrease over the year 
of $205m. Net debt included $209m in respect of the finance lease 
obligations for the InterContinental Boston and $29m in respect of 
currency swaps related to the sterling bond.
Other financial information continued BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 27
Our people
IHG directly employed an average of 7,956 people worldwide during 201 1 whose costs are borne by the Group. w hen the 
whole IHG estate is taken into account (including staff working in the franchised and managed hotels) approximately 
345,000 people are employed globally across IHG’s brands. Unless otherwise stated, any data in this section relates to the 
people directly employed by IHG and those who work in managed hotels or as part of our joint venture with a ll n ippon 
a irways in Japan – in total 120,000 people. During 201 1, our trading environment began to recover and we continued to 
focus on balancing greater efficiencies in our operations, while continuing to engage with our people. 
Supporting our Vision 
In 2011 we continued to support our Vision to be one of the world’s great companies by introducing BrandHearted. 
We already have a unique culture built on our Winning Ways – the values which guide how IHG interacts with guests, colleagues and hotel 
owners. However, recognising that our people deliver our brands and bring our brands to life, we also need to ensure that all our people 
champion our brands all the time. A BrandHearted focus serves to address this; a change to the way we work, that puts our brands at the 
heart of our thinking and our decision-making, so that we can improve the performance of our brands.
With this focus on our brands we will drive a consistent experience in our hotels. These experiences, in turn, will build guest preference, 
and encourage guests to seek out our brands when they travel. This helps to win market share and drive revenue – for IHG and our owners.
Leading this culture change is the Programme Office, joining up our efforts across the Group, and helping our people understand the role 
they play as brand ambassadors.
Do	 the	 right	 thing Show	 we	 care Aim	 higher Celebrate	 	
difference
Work	 better	 	
together
w inning w ays
These five 
behaviours define 
how we work 
together to create 
Great Hotels 
Guests Love
PREFERRED
BRANDS
RevPAR
OUT- 
PERFORMANCE
REINVESTMENT
OWNER 
RETURN ON 
INVESTMENT
OPERATING 
EFFICIENCIES
MORE DEALS,
MORE SCALE 	 28	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Our people strategy
The four pillars of our people strategy are:
•  developing a BrandHearted culture;
•  making IHG a great place to work;
•  delivering world-class people tools for our owners; and
•  building a strong leadership team.
Developing	 a	 BrandHearted	 culture	
Introducing BrandHearted started with our leaders in April 2011, 
when we brought 300 of our most senior people together to 
understand the changes needed (see page 29). 
Key to any culture change is engagement, so we created a variety  
of communications tools for our leaders, so they could inspire their 
teams about our brands and who could, in turn, communicate that 
love and knowledge to our guests. In 2011 we delivered three 
cascade kits that included BrandHearted exercises and videos  
from each of our brand heads explaining more about the brand; 
brand-on-a-page documents that summarise what the guest is 
looking for from the brand and how we need to behave to meet  
their expectations; and eLearning modules with more in-depth 
information on IHG’s approach to brands and branding.
We also put our brands at the centre of our thinking and our 
planning, with our new Brand Plan to Win process. These plans 
help us to be clear about the brand proposition (what it stands for, 
who it is designed for, how it makes our guests feel and the role it 
plays for IHG), the brand experience (every connection that a guest 
has with the brand), the brand priorities and IHG targets. 
Since people are a product of their environment, we have also 
launched the Heart of House programme, which transforms the 
traditional ‘back of house’ into the true heart of our hotels – a 
warm, inviting place for employees to find out about what is 
happening at IHG, with their brand, in their hotel and in their teams. 
It provides both a communications tool and an improved working 
environment to support our General Managers in involving, 
inspiring and engaging their teams as brand ambassadors. In 
hotels with a Heart of House we have seen engagement increase  
by 13% and pride in the ‘back of house’ increase from 35% to 91%. 
This is critical because we know that when colleagues feel engaged 
and love coming to work, that attitude is reflected in their service, 
creating those great brand experiences that guests will seek out 
again. Adaptable for both big and small spaces, Heart of House is 
unique in the hotel industry – a powerful, visual demonstration of 
our belief in the role people play in our success.
Making	 IHG	 a	 great	 place	 to	 work
IHG has developed a strong culture of engagement that provides 
the environment which helps us attract and retain great people. 
This is enhanced by our ‘Room to be yourself’ commitment, which 
makes four key promises:
Room	 to	 have	 a	 great	 start
As one of the world’s largest hotel companies, with one of the 
strongest new hotel opening pipelines, hiring the right people for 
our brands is critical. We know that over 190,000 people need to be 
hired in our franchise hotels alone from 2012 to 2014, so an 
important development in 2011 was the creation and launch of a job 
posting portal for our franchise estate, enabling them to post jobs 
to our www.ihg.jobs website. In 2011 we also developed a unique 
resourcing system for our China market, tailored to the local 
Chinese talent. In November 2011 alone we saw a rise of 1,500 jobs 
being posted to our site bringing the total to over 3,000 jobs 
advertised across our Greater China hotel estate. 
As part of our ‘People Tools’, a suite of best practice guides and 
tools which help our hotels hire, train, involve and recognise the 
best people for their brands, we offer recruitment advertisements 
featuring existing employees. Specific behaviours have been 
identified in order to bring each brand to life and these are built into 
all of the tools, for example ensuring we recruit someone with the 
right attitude for the brand as well as the right technical skills for 
the role. Once recruited, we offer an orientation programme to 
ensure our new team members learn about our history, our culture, 
Winning Ways, Room to be yourself, our Vision and our brands. 
Each new joiner is assigned an orientation advisor who supports 
them through the first 90 days.
Room	 to	 be	 involved
A record 94% of colleagues worldwide took part in the 2011 
employee survey. IHG’s Engagement index improved by two 
percentage points from November 2010 (76%) to November 2011 
(78%), together with a one per cent improvement in pride to 93%. 
The results once again out-performed the industry average in 
addition to out-performing our survey partner’s ‘high performing 
benchmark’, and are an important indicator that we are focusing on 
the priority areas that matter most to our people. We also used the 
survey to track awareness and understanding of the IHG Vision of 
becoming one of the great companies of the world. Our October 
2011 employee survey results show that 88% of our people are 
aware of our Vision among whom 95% say they believe it will help  
us create a great company. The survey indicates that 88% of 
employees agree that IHG delivers training to assist with their 
current roles, which is a one percentage point increase on 2010.  
We also used our sponsorship of the London 2012 Olympic and 
Paralympic Games to drive pride and engagement, with 88% of 
colleagues positive about the sponsorship and proud of our role  
in the Games, up from 86% in 2010. 
Room	 to	 grow
We run a twice-yearly Careers Week for our talented, energetic and 
passionate people to promote the world of job opportunities in over 
4,400 hotels in nearly 100 countries and territories; and a monthly 
Hot Jobs feature on our intranet, Merlin, profiling key vacancies 
around the world. 
To provide support for our leaders, we continue to expand The 
Leaders Lounge, our virtual leadership development forum for IHG 
senior managers. This online meeting place brings together the 
Chief Executive, the Executive Committee, and our senior leaders  
to discuss and share ideas and solutions to the key issues and 
challenges for IHG, as well as learning from external business 
thinkers. In 2010 we opened a Leadership Academy within the 
Lounge, and in 2011 we expanded the curriculum of IHG specific 
eLearning modules on strategy, finance, communications, coaching 
and other key areas of leadership. The Leaders Lounge continues  
to be recognised, winning a number of awards in 2011 including the 
ASTD (American Society for Training and Development) award for 
Excellence in Practice and the Training Magazine Best Practice 
award. To date, more than 1,360 Lounge members have taken more 
than 8,000 modules to increase their leadership ability using 41,756 
great leadership tips and insights each month, or an average of one 
leadership tip a day.  BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 29
We have been working with our brand teams who define the guest 
experience and personality for each brand. This has allowed us to 
design training that will help employees understand what each 
brand stands for and to deliver each unique brand experience.  
In 2011, we introduced our branded service behaviour training to 
Holiday Inn, Hotel Indigo, InterContinental and Staybridge Suites 
hotels. 94% of the attendees said they would recommend the 
workshop to colleagues and other hotels. We are in the process  
of rolling out service training for Crowne Plaza and Candlewood 
Suites.
Plans have already begun for the third annual Celebrate Service 
week in 2012. This week gives our hotels and corporate offices  
a formal opportunity to tell their teams how much they are 
appreciated. In 2011, more than 3,000 hotels and offices around  
the world participated, and shared 1,600 stories of exceptional, 
BrandHearted service by our teams. As a reward, we gave each  
of the 32 people with the most compelling stories a pair of tickets  
to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
All of these tools and events help our owners bring our brands to 
life through their people. This helps them reduce costs by keeping 
employees engaged and increasing employee retention, and helps 
them grow revenue through increased guest satisfaction and 
repeat visits.
Building	 a	 strong	 leadership	 team
To grow our business sustainably requires BrandHearted leaders; 
leaders who can transform the business and inspire their people, 
while putting our brands at the heart of everything they do. Key to 
achieving this is being clear with leaders on what is expected from 
them at the different levels within the organisation, and providing 
the tools and resources that leaders need to develop their capability 
to meet that expectation.
Some of the key activities which demonstrate how we support 
leaders to develop their BrandHearted leadership capability, are  
as follows:
•  holding a conference for our top 300 leaders, helping them 
understand how to lead a BrandHearted business;
•  helping leaders cascade BrandHearted through conferences  
and team meetings;
•  creating a BrandHearted section in our Leaders Lounge; 
•  bringing BrandHearted to life through our leadership competencies;
•  creating a new BrandHearted leadership programme and General 
Manager/Brand Champion Service Behaviour training; and
•  using eLearning to help educate our leaders, with three 
BrandHearted modules (Brands and Branding, Our Brands, and 
Building the Brand Experience); Holiday Inn Service Behaviours 
Leadership; and two Leadership competency modules (Candid 
Conversations and Champion Change).
We also continue to provide an extensive range of training to our 
employees aimed at accelerating their development, including 
eLearning curricula from respected business schools such as 
Cornell University in the US. To manage our graduate pipeline, both 
our Asia, Middle East and Africa and Europe regions run graduate 
programmes. The I-grad and Future Leaders programmes rotate 
graduates through departments in our hotels and corporate offices 
to develop their operational and leadership capabilities. In 2011 we 
had over 25 graduates on rotation in our hotels around the world 
and due to our growth and focus on talent we hired double this 
number to 50 graduates who started with us towards the end of 
2011. Career Insight Development Centres place our high potential 
hotel team members in a simulated world of running a hotel. 
Participants experience first-hand many of the challenges and 
obstacles faced everyday in hotels and graduate with a clear 
development plan aimed at getting them ready for the next step  
in their career.
During 2011, we again conducted our annual talent review of our 
corporate managers and hotel General Managers to identify and 
develop skills required for the future. The results of the review  
gave us a clear understanding of our high-potential talent,  
their strengths, their development opportunities and the new 
experiences or potential roles which will enable them to enhance 
their skills for the future and to meet IHG’s key objectives. The 
annual succession planning process for senior leadership roles 
enables IHG to anticipate the future leadership needs to achieve the 
IHG strategy and to put the long-term plans in place to build both 
the right number and right quality of leaders to meet those needs.
In 2011, we introduced our new online performance management 
tool, myRoomtogrow, to more than 7,300 employees globally 
including all corporate team members and General Managers at 
our managed and owned hotels. Adoption of the system was at 78% 
in December 2011 for managers. myRoomtogrow includes all steps 
in our performance management journey – setting objectives at the 
start of the year, a check of progress at mid-year, our personal 
development plans, an annual self review, the manager’s review 
and calibration to ensure consistency of ratings across the 
business.
Room	 for	 you
Our promise to give employees ‘Room for you’ was best illustrated 
in 2011 with the introduction of a new global recognition 
programme called Bravo which helps corporate employees to 
publicly recognise each other for a job well done. The intranet-
based programme allows colleagues to nominate each other for  
a simple thank you or one of the various award levels which have  
an associated cash value depending on the achievement of the 
nominee. In just two months over 1,800 Bravo awards were made.
Delivering	 world-class	 People	 Tools	 for	 our	 owners
When we say ‘brands are a promise delivered by people’, we mean 
all the people who work for IHG and in IHG branded hotels. Guests 
do not choose a business model; they choose our brands. So we 
have made our award-winning ‘People Tools’, which help our 
owners to hire, train, involve and recognise employees, available  
to our franchised hotels. 	 30	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
London	 2012	 Olympic	 and	 Paralympic	 Games
The selection of Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express as the 
Official Hotel Services Provider to the London 2012 Olympic and 
Paralympic Games continues to provide a great opportunity to 
engage and motivate our people. Throughout 2011, we have given 
colleagues exclusive and once-in-a-lifetime opportunities:
•  from China to Australia and from the US to the UK, we are 
appointing 91 of our best people to run the Olympic Village. 
Star performers from throughout the IHG family will take on 
essential roles, not only attending to world-class competitors’ 
needs, but also in jobs across the Olympic organisation. 
These include working at the Athletes’ Village, and in  
Venue IT, Internal Audit and Accommodation Reservations;
•  to date we have hosted 25 sports master classes run by 
Olympic and Paralympic athletes in eight countries (including 
China and Australia), allowing more than 1,500 colleagues to 
have a go at everything from sailing to fencing, swimming to 
cycling. 97% of the colleagues who attended the classes gave 
them an ‘excellent’ rating, and more classes are planned for 
2012 in countries including the US and Japan;
 
 
 
 
•  we have given 70 of our most inspirational colleagues the 
opportunity to run with the Olympic Torch when it makes its 
way around the UK. These colleagues were selected on the 
basis of their remarkable contributions to the environment  
or community or an extraordinary personal story;
•  we launched a competition for our employees to design a 
commemorative room keycard and the winning design will  
be used at Holiday Inn hotels throughout the UK and Ireland 
during the Games. It will also be made into a key ring for 
every Olympic athlete staying in the Athletes’ Village, which 
they can take home as a memento from the Games. More 
than 566 designs were submitted; and
•  we have also employed 16 Olympic athletes across IHG  
so they can earn while they train.
Celebrating diversity
IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, owners, business 
partners and guests. The Group regards diversity as a fundamental 
factor in its success in operating as a global organisation and this 
principle is embedded in IHG’s Winning Ways. The Group is 
committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees 
without discrimination and continues to be supportive of the 
employment of disabled persons. Where existing employees 
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practical in the same or a suitable 
alternative position.
ensuring health and safety
Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment for our 
guests, employees and visitors is paramount and IHG applies  
high standards of health and safety across the Group. Our Global 
Risk Management team evaluates policies and procedures, 
operating a range of health and safety and security measures  
and we require all parties to comply with relevant health and  
safety legislation.
All of our Group companies are responsible for protecting the 
health of our employees through suitable work-based strategies; 
minimising the risk of injury from work activity; ensuring that 
sufficient resources, information and systems are in place to 
address health and safety; and involving employees in continuous 
improvement, reporting and review of health and safety matters.
Further information on our approach towards safety and  
security can be found on pages 34 to 40 of this Business  
Review and in the online Corporate Responsibility Report at  
www.ihgplc.com/responsibility.
external recognition 
In January 2012 IHG was recognised in Fortune’s ‘100 Best 
Companies to Work For’ in the US, to add to the prestigious awards 
IHG won in 2011 in recognition of its people management and HR 
practices. These awards are important for three reasons. First, 
they allow us to benchmark ourselves against – and learn from 
– the best. Second, they validate our work, elevating us out of the 
hospitality industry, and putting us shoulder to shoulder with some 
of the world’s great companies. And third, they send a signal to 
current and prospective employees that we have a great culture, 
and are a great place to work. In 2011, we won 16 separate people 
awards, including:
•  ‘The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For,’ with 
recognition for excelling in every area throughout our workplace 
and our commitment to our most important asset – our people. 
We broke into the top 10 in 2011 – up from 19th place in 2010;
•  ‘The Atlanta Business Chronicle Best Places to Work’ on the  
‘Big Companies’ list – ahead of Accenture, Marriott and Ernst  
& Young;
•  Personnel Today awards for Excellence in Global Human 
Resources and HR Team of the year. The judges were particularly 
impressed with our global HR strategy, tools and processes that 
are helping us to become one of the great companies of the world.  
Our team was also recognised for demonstrating excellence in 
increasing our global reach across our franchised hotels, and for 
creating an engaged and connected workforce, united towards a 
common goal; and
•  Aon Hewitt’s ‘Best Employer’ awards in Hungary, Singapore, 
Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia. These awards recognised 
employees’ positive response in a survey on our culture, 
employee engagement and how our work complements Great 
Hotels Guest Love. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 31
Collaboration
Our stakeholders play a key role in helping us identify and tackle our 
priorities. They include guests and corporate clients, franchise 
holders and hotel owners, local communities, employees, 
shareholders, suppliers, academic institutions, non-government 
organisations, government and industry-specific institutions. 
We continue to work with the best and brightest minds in the 
academic world. In 2011, IHG senior management met with students 
from Harvard University for an interactive critique of our CR report. 
We also co-sponsored Cornell University to undertake a study 
entitled ‘Developing a Sustainability Measurement Framework for 
Hotels: Toward an Industry-wide Reporting Structure’ which 
proposed a framework for the development of a standard carbon 
footprint methodology.
As a member of the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), and the 
World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), we work with our 
competitors to share knowledge and resources, develop policy and 
implement programmes that have a positive social, economic and 
environmental impact. Together we address issues that affect the 
industry as a whole. In 2011 we took a lead role in the ITP/WTTC 
working group seeking to agree a common carbon metric for the 
industry and were able to feed in the results of our work with Cornell. 
We also supported a working group on human rights issues.
To support the expansion of our community programmes we work 
with expert partners. On the IHG Academy programme, we worked 
with Business in the Community (BITC) to help us launch our first  
UK IHG Academy. The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme works in 
partnership with one of the world’s largest disaster relief agencies, 
CARE International, leading to the development of practical 
guidance on how our hotels can support local communities in times 
of crisis.
Environment
In 2011 we made further inroads in our industry-leading approach 
to designing, building and operating more sustainable hotels.  
We launched version 2.0 of our leading-edge environmental 
management tool, Green Engage, making it easier to use, adding 
more advanced features and developing training and support 
materials for our growing user base.
Green	 Engage
Green Engage helps us fulfil our important commitment to monitor, 
manage and reduce the carbon footprint of our hotels by providing 
them with relevant information about energy, waste and water 
consumption. In turn, this stops hotels losing money on energy 
costs. Energy is the second biggest cost to our business – the 
average IHG hotel spends over $500,000 on energy usage each 
year. Green Engage can help hotels become up to 25% more energy 
efficient, so it makes environmental and financial sense.
Currently, over 1,700 hotels are signed up to the system. Through  
it we have made a demonstrable improvement in year-on-year 
energy reduction, as our 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
results prove. Our score increased by 22 points to 76 out of 100. This 
reflects the detail we provide about our governance and strategy to 
reduce our environmental impacts. Our aim is to have our entire 
estate using Green Engage over time. In 2012 we will continue to 
enhance Green Engage with new features including a water 
benchmark and carbon calculator.
Green Engage is driving revenue too. Our research shows that 
many US and UK frequent travellers prefer hotels which are 
meaningfully engaged in CR. We have made it easier for this 
Corporate responsibility
With over 4,400 hotels worldwide and almost 1,150 in the pipeline, 
we have a tremendous opportunity to help make tourism 
responsible, from the energy we use, to the economic opportunities 
we create and the support we can provide to communities in times 
of disaster.
To calculate the contribution made by IHG hotels, we asked Oxford 
Economics to analyse the impact of our operations in the US, UK 
and Brazilian economies. The report estimates that our hotels 
support close to two million jobs globally. Furthermore we know 
that each dollar spent at an IHG hotel multiplies through the 
economy six to seven times. This reinforces our conviction that 
behaving responsibly as a business is not just the right thing to do 
for our communities and the environment; it makes great business 
sense.
Bearing this in mind, our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy  
is based on innovation and collaboration in the areas that make 
most sense to our business and where we believe we can make  
the most difference, the environment and the community: 
•  Environment – driving environmental sustainability – through 
Green Engage and our three-year target to reduce energy 
consumption in our managed and owned estate by between  
6% and 10% by the end of 2012.
•  Community – creating local economic opportunity particularly 
through the IHG Academy, and by providing disaster relief through 
the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
Corporate	 Responsibility	 Committee
Our CR Committee, formed in 2009, oversees that we have the  
right policies, management and measurement systems in place  
to deliver against our strategy. The Committee is chaired by 
Jennifer Laing, a Non-Executive Director. It met three times in 2011, 
focusing on the global expansion of the IHG Academy programme, 
the launch of the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme and the 
ongoing roll-out of Green Engage. Our CR Committee was also kept 
up-to-date on how IHG managed its response to carbon regulation 
in the UK, which for the first time in 2011 required the business to 
report the carbon emissions of all UK properties. 
We have established further committees to oversee globally-
aligned decisions. These include our Green Engage Council and  
our Community Strategy Committee, both of which met to discuss 
improvements to, and expansions of, our programmes during 2011. 
Innovation
We manage our challenges, particularly in relation to our 
environmental impacts, through innovation. We develop innovative 
concepts and technologies like our online Innovation Hotel website 
which helps us to create what future hotels could look like and how 
they might operate. The site allows online guests to tell us what 
they think of the latest sustainable hotel ideas. We launched a new 
version of the Innovation Hotel in 2011. The refreshed site now 
showcases real IHG hotel case studies and makes it even easier  
for guests to join the conversation.
We are committed to designing, building and operating more 
sustainable hotels through innovation. By choosing to develop 
programmes like Green Engage, we provide our hotel owners with 
guest-focused guidelines for more sustainable hotels. 	 32	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
growing band of customers to book a Green Engage hotel by 
introducing an online booking capability for guests who want to stay 
at ’green’ hotels. In 2012 we will continue to expand awareness of 
our Green Engage hotels on IHG branded and external booking 
sites. We will also continue to work with our brand teams to ensure 
that CR is integral to their Brand Plans.
Community
Our scale gives us a real opportunity to improve the lives of local 
people. Our Community Strategy, which sets out how we seek  
to create local economic opportunity, is critical to achieving 
economic success and Great Hotels Guests Love. In 2011 we  
put more focus on the community, successfully expanding our  
two main programmes. 
IHG	 Academy
Through the innovative IHG Academy we join forces with local 
education providers to provide real life skills and create job 
opportunities in hospitality. This public-private partnership 
improves employment prospects for local people, provides us  
with a pipeline of talent and ensures we offer high-quality guest 
experiences worldwide. It also gives our employees the opportunity 
to make a difference.
Originally developed in China, we expanded the programme globally 
in 2011. We now have 36 IHG Academy programmes in numerous 
countries, and over 5,500 participants took part in 2011 – up almost 
20% from 2010. Chief Executive Richard Solomons opened our first 
UK IHG Academy at Rosedale College in Hayes, Middlesex. In 2012 
we will formally launch our programme in Newham, East London, 
which will support the legacy and regeneration goals of the London 
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Disaster	 relief
We have a long history of helping communities in times of disaster. 
The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme, launched formally in 2011, 
builds on this tradition, using our scale to pool our resources and 
efforts. When disaster strikes, we provide guidance to help IHG 
hotels react swiftly and effectively, so they can provide help such  
as emergency shelter, food and clean water to communities  
around our affected hotels. 
To develop and deliver this Programme we have established a 
global partnership with CARE International, who advise us on how 
to act and help find appropriate charity partners in the disaster 
area. We also set up an IHG Shelter Fund, which is supported 
through employee fundraising activities. We have already put the 
IHG Shelter Fund into action and more than $700,000 was raised to 
help those affected by the Japanese tsunami and the earthquakes  
in New Zealand. Money from the IHG Shelter Fund was also used 
during the flooding in Thailand to help employees of our hotels in 
Bangkok repair damage to their homes and belongings.
Stakeholder	 engagement	 and	 public	 policy
Our stakeholders are important to us. We engage with them 
through a number of channels, including forums, meetings, 
individual interviews, surveys and our award-winning online CR 
report. In 2011 we launched the ‘IHG Planet CR’ Facebook page and 
created a one-stop-shop ‘resource centre’ on our company intranet 
to help keep corporate employees and hotel operators up-to-date 
with our programmes. We also developed a series of animated 
videos to help raise awareness and understanding of our key 
programmes in a fun and engaging way. The videos are also 
available on YouTube.
We regularly track public policy issues which may affect our 
business and we have recently commissioned a shareholder review 
of CR to really understand what our investors think of our activities. 
Findings will feed into future strategy development.
To make sure our hotel operators have the latest information on our 
programmes we produced a ‘CR in a Box’ toolkit in collaboration 
with the IHG Owners Association. This quick and easy guide enables 
hotels to do more to support our CR efforts through ‘how to’ guides, 
videos and other downloadable material. In 2012 we will help our 
operators get more involved in our programmes by providing 
further tools, including information they can share with guests. 
We will continue to provide quarterly updates through our online  
CR report. The report attracts roughly 5,000 visits a month and  
is an important source of stakeholder feedback, which in turn  
drives our strategy. And we will continue to add new case  
studies to our Innovation Hotel, giving hotels the chance  
to share their achievements.
Regulation	 and	 legislation
Over and above complying with legal requirements wherever we 
operate, our systems and programmes help keep us ahead of 
regulatory demands.
Green Engage is core to helping hotel owners manage current 
regulatory performance and prepare for anticipated regulations.
This year we used Green Engage to comply with the requirements 
of the UK’s Carbon Reduction Commitment, a mandatory carbon 
emissions reporting and pricing scheme.
These and other complex regulatory matters are overseen by  
our Global Carbon Strategy Team. We review our carbon strategy 
regularly with our CR Committee and discuss it with the IHG 
Owners Association to make sure our franchise owners support 
our aims.
External	 recognition
Our activities continued to receive external recognition in 2011.  
Our first entry in the BITC CR Index achieved a ‘Silver status’ rating. 
The CR Index is the UK’s leading voluntary benchmark for 
corporate responsibility and over 350 organisations have used the 
tool since 2002.
We were also shortlisted for an award for ‘Best Corporate  
Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme’ at the Business Travel 
Awards 2012.
Policies	 and	 Code	 of	 Ethics
We have detailed policies on the environment, human rights, the 
community and a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. In 2011  
we also added a Vendor Code of Conduct to our approach.
Among the Group’s core values is the concept that all employees 
should have the courage and conviction to do what is right. The 
Group’s global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consolidates 
and clarifies expected standards of behaviour and communicates 
the ethical values of the Group. It states clearly that IHG’s 
reputation is built upon the trust and confidence of our 
stakeholders and is fundamental to our operations worldwide.  
A Confidential Disclosure Channel also provides employees with  
a means to report any ethical concerns they may have. The Code of 
Ethics and Business Conduct is applicable to all employees and is 
available on the Company’s website at www.ihgplc.com/investors 
under corporate governance. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 33
CR priorities, performance and targets
The following table outlines IHG’s overall CR priorities, developments and achievements during the year and priorities for 2012.
CR	 priorities 2011	 developments	 and	 achievements 2012	 priorities
drive environmental 
sustainability
•  Launched Green Engage version 2.0;
•  met target to have over 1,700 hotels using 
Green Engage by the end of 2011;
•  reduced energy consumption of IHG offices 
and hotels;
•  led the Cornell University carbon study and 
fed this into the International Tourism 
Partnership (ITP) and World Travel & Tourism 
Council (WTTC) industry carbon working 
group; and
•  participated in President Obama’s Better 
Building Challenge.
•  Meet 6% to 10% energy reduction target by  
end of 2012; 
•  continue to grow hotels enrolled in Green 
Engage to 50% of our estate;
•  enhance quality of use of Green Engage  
at hotel level;
•  develop Green Meetings offering; and
•  continue to drive the development and  
use of a global CO 2 standard for hotels.
Positive impact  
on the local  
community
•  Expanded the IHG Academy programme  
to numerous countries including our first  
UK-based IHG Academy;
•  created a toolkit providing our hotels with 
guidance on how to become an IHG Academy;
•  established the IHG Shelter in a Storm 
Programme and IHG Shelter Fund and 
donated over $700,000 to help communities  
in New Zealand, Japan and Thailand; and
•  formalised our partnership with CARE 
International to help provide strategic advice 
and guidance to our hotels in times of crisis.
•  ‘IHG Academy in a Box’ to be created for 
roll-out across all regions;
•  online process for donation requests set  
up and communicated;
•  fundraising events in each region;
•  pilot life skills offering in London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games through social 
enterprise; and
•  further refine our key CR policies.
CR and our  
brands
• CR elements embedded in Brand Plans; and
•  increased presence of Green Engage in IHG 
internal communications.
•  IHG Owners Association agreement on  
making Green Engage a brand standard; and
•  implementation plans and budgets in place  
for agreed CR elements in Brand Plans.
engage  
stakeholders  
to champion  
and protect  
IHG’s trusted  
reputation  
and deliver  
against public  
affairs priorities
•  Launched Innovation Hotel version 2.0;
•  created the ‘IHG Planet CR’ Facebook page;
•  created a CR Resource Centre for internal 
stakeholders so they can access up-to-date 
information about our programmes;
•  completed a stakeholder and communications 
strategy session focusing on our sphere of 
influence, our stakeholders and our goals for 
stakeholder engagement;
•  engaged in meetings with key stakeholders to 
understand their priorities and explore 
opportunities for partnership working; and
•  continued to manage critical industry and 
government affairs issues.
•  Continue to engage with our stakeholders 
through our refined stakeholder engagement 
process and channels;
•  continue to update the Innovation Hotel with 
new case studies and feed learning into Green 
Engage;
•  launch video to communicate the results  
of IHG’s economic impact study;
•  increase Facebook fans to 6,000-10,000  
by the end of 2012;
•  ensure alignment between CR and  
public policy; and
•  refresh CR training so our internal 
stakeholders are kept informed and updated.
For more information please visit our Corporate Responsibility website at www.ihgplc.com/responsibility and the Innovation Hotel at  
www.ihgplc.com/innovation or join us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/IHGCorporateResponsibility. 	 34	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Roles	 and	 responsibilities	 across	 a	 holistic	 view	 of	 risk	
management	
The model illustrates our holistic view of risks affecting the Group:
•	 	 Strategic	 and	 market	 risks – risks that affect the Group’s 
high-level strengths and weaknesses or reflect risks from the 
external environment. These risks are managed by senior 
leadership teams across the regions and corporate functions, 
with oversight provided by the Executive Committee; 
•  Tactical	 risks – risks arising from our key initiatives and projects 
supporting our growth and transformation agendas. These risks 
are managed by project managers and project sponsors within 
the relevant business functions, with oversight provided by the 
Programme Office; and
•  Operational	 risks – risks affecting IHG’s operating system and 
our hotels. These risks are managed by corporate functions  
and regional operators working collaboratively with hotel 
management teams and owners. Oversight is provided by the 
Global Operations Council.
With this approach, we believe we have clarity on ownership of  
risks and that clear oversight roles are in place. Additional risk 
governance roles and responsibilities are included in the Major  
Risk Review Process which seeks to identify the most significant 
strategic, tactical and operational risks to the Group. 
 
IHG
Regions
and functions
Project risks
IHG operating system
Strategic
Tactical
Operational
Owned
Managed
Franchised
Hotels
Risk management system
Working	 together	 to	 embed	 a	 proactive	 risk	 management	 culture
Consistent with our Winning Ways, IHG aims to embed a proactive 
risk management culture. The development of IHG’s risk 
management culture and capability is a collaborative effort led by 
the Company Secretary, supported by the Global Risk Management 
team and delivered by everyone in the business from the Board and 
Executive Committee to front line hotel and corporate employees. 
IHG’s vision for risk management is to foster a culture that becomes 
instinctive, well-informed, curious, alert, responsive, consistent 
and accountable. 
Risk management activity is aligned to delivering Great Hotels 
Guests Love and is embedded in our business decision-making 
processes. This includes but is not limited to, integrating risk 
management into the strategic planning process and discussions 
at Strategy Review meetings between individual Executive 
Committee members and the Chief Executive and formal risk 
reporting to the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board. 
This ‘tone from the top’ support and accountability for risk 
management is then cascaded into the business. 
IHG’s risk management capability is continually strengthened by 
learning from incidents and crises. With a global footprint of nearly 
100 countries and territories, IHG navigated through numerous 
natural and man-made crises in 2011 responding to natural 
disasters in Japan, New Zealand and the US, and the political 
events in the Middle East. Events such as these continually 
strengthen our risk management culture. 
Risk management
As a business, IHG manages and takes risks every day. However, 
we recognise that by managing risks effectively, particularly the 
major risks that may affect our business plans and strategic 
objectives, we are able to protect or enhance our key assets 
appropriately. Amongst our key assets, we have: 
• brands and market position;
• financial strength and performance;
•  business capability and systems including people, IT systems and 
ways of working; and
• business reputation and relationships with our stakeholders.
We believe that an effective risk management system requires: 
•  Culture – a proactive risk management culture ensuring our 
people have the necessary knowledge and demonstrate the right 
behaviours for effective leadership and decision-making; 
•  Roles	 and	 responsibilities – clear roles and responsibilities 
across a holistic view of risk management; and
•  Process	 and	 framework – a robust process and framework for 
managing risks that is consistently applied across the business. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 35
Major	 Risk	 Review	 Process	
Risks are continuously identified, monitored and managed by a  
wide range of stakeholders across each region and the corporate 
functions, and are formally discussed twice a year with the  
Chief Executive. 
In addition, the Risk Working Group, which is chaired by the 
Company Secretary and comprises the Global Heads of Strategy, 
Risk Management and Internal Audit, takes an active role in 
overseeing the most significant risks to the Group.
Risks identified in the regions and corporate functions are 
consolidated, refined and calibrated against a strategic view of 
risks by the Risk Working Group. The Major Risks are discussed  
with the Executive Committee to gain agreement on the risk 
descriptions, ownership and actions, before final presentation to 
the Audit Committee and Board. The Risk Working Group monitors 
changes to the Major Risks and the progress of actions on a 
quarterly basis, to ensure these risks are appropriately managed 
and emerging risks are identified. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s strategy, risk 
management and systems of internal control and for reviewing 
their effectiveness. In addition, the Audit Committee annually 
reviews the risk management system and the overall effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management. 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
BOARD/AUDIT COMMITTEE
RISK WORKING GROUP
MAJOR RISK REVIEW
REGION AND FUNCTION RISKS
GROUP LEVEL RISKS
Risk	 Management	 Framework
The Risk Management Framework which is consistently applied to 
risks affecting IHG is depicted in the ‘Manage Risk’ cog of the Hotel 
Safety Framework shown on page 37. This is a pragmatic risk 
framework which starts with a risk profile and moves through the 
necessary considerations for effective management/mitigation  
of risks. 
Risk	 profile – identification and prioritisation of risks against 
consistently applied assessment definitions. This includes an 
assessment of risk before actions or controls are taken and  
after existing management actions are applied. Where these 
management actions are not sufficient, a further target risk  
level is set. The risk profile is captured in ‘heatmaps’ as shown  
in the diagram below:
LIKELIHOOD
N
T
G
GROSS RISK (Risk level 
with ineffective or no controls 
in place)
N
NET RISK (Current risk level 
with existing controls in place)
T
TARGET RISK (Desired risk 
level to optimise investment, 
as required)
IMPACT
G
Policies	 and	 standards – formal articulation of the approach, 
controls and actions for IHG employees when dealing with specific 
risks. These set out accountability for risks, relevant roles and 
responsibilities and actions that are measurable or auditable;
Ways	 of	 working – practical aspects of risk management such as 
tools, templates, systems, forums and behaviours which help 
management bring the policies and standards to life;
Training	 and	 communication – face-to-face and online learning 
programmes to provide appropriate skills and knowledge and 
regular communication to raise awareness;
Operate	 and	 control – ongoing operational activities and control 
measures to comply with policies and standards and to manage risk;
Risk	 financing – consideration of the financial impact of risks and 
ensuring that arrangements are in place – usually insurance 
coverage or budgetary funds; and
Monitor	 and	 report	 – the collection and analysis of management 
information to evaluate the effectiveness of the risk profile, policies 
and standards, ways of working, training and communications and 
risk financing activities. 
The Risk Management Framework reflects the cyclical nature of 
risk management and allows us to continuously assess the 
environment in which we are operating, particularly as the external 
risk environment is in a constant state of change.  	 36	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Managing risks in a changing environment
We faced a turbulent external risk environment in 2011, seeing 
changes or disruptions in political, economic, social, technological, 
legal and environmental risks. These external factors are expected 
to remain unsettled for 2012 and the foreseeable future. The 
Group’s wide geographic spread and fee-based model means that 
in general, events in individual countries are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group’s results, as has been seen in 2011. 
The following section provides insight into risks, controls and 
mitigation activities for some of the risks we see as changing  
or dynamic: 
Uncertainty	 in	 the	 Eurozone – the economic outlook for the 
Eurozone remains uncertain, however the Group is not significantly 
exposed to this region. Less than 10% of the Group’s operating 
profit before central overheads is Euro denominated and the only 
significant asset in the region is the InterContinental Paris Le Grand 
which is partly hedged from a balance sheet perspective. The 
Group is not dependent on Euro liquidity and none of the banks in 
the syndicated facility are based in the Eurozone. The Group closely 
monitors working capital and cash to minimise any negative 
exposure to unexpected currency movements and is continually 
monitoring and reacting to trading conditions in the region;
Capital	 availability – global economic conditions remained weak 
with continued rebalancing in 2011, led by continued growth in 
China and other emerging markets, low level of optimism in the  
US and limited growth in the UK. Capital availability remains a 
challenge for current and potential hotel owners particularly in 
developed markets. This has put added pressure on existing and 
potential hotel owners, impacting on the current hotel estate and 
the delivery and growth of potential new IHG hotels in the pipeline. 
In response to the market conditions, specialist teams within our 
regional structures focused on monitoring the hotels in the pipeline 
using a global hotel opening tool and analysing external market 
conditions, supporting owners with financial difficulty and 
reviewing financial alternatives with lenders. In addition, 
development teams focused on opportunities that were less  
capital intensive;
Distribution	 channels	 and	 intermediaries – consumers now have 
access to far more information through the internet; this has 
resulted in increasing dependence on comparison websites and 
search engines. Sales through these channels typically have high 
commission rates and are taking a larger share of bookings across 
the travel and hospitality sector. IHG has responded well in this 
area by devoting more than half of its discretionary marketing 
budget to non-traditional tools such as online search, loyalty 
programmes and web and mobile applications. The Group has also 
continually invested in developing IHG’s own internet presence and 
the Group can benefit from scale when negotiating terms with 
online business partners. In 2011, the Group launched the industry-
leading ‘Best Price Guarantee’ for bookings made through IHG 
branded websites and has led the development of a new branded 
hotel search engine, roomkey.com, in partnership with several 
other hotel companies and which launched in early 2012;
Safety,	 security	 and	 crisis	 management	 – IHG places the safety 
and security of our people and guests first. The natural and 
man-made crises in 2011 acted as a stark reminder why this risk 
cannot be underestimated. Fortunately, IHG’s safety, security and 
crisis management systems proved effective in managing a  
number of significant events without any direct loss of life and with  
minimal business interruption and damage. Looking forward, the 
geopolitical and civil unrest in the Middle East and Northern Africa 
remains and as the Group continues to grow its global footprint  
and expand in emerging markets, IHG may be increasingly exposed 
to safety and security incidents and major crises. IHG’s proactive, 
risk-based approach to hotel safety and security is summarised  
in the ‘Managing risk in hotels’ and ‘Hotel safety framework’ in the 
next section;
Data	 security	 and	 payment	 card	 protection – studies from credit 
card companies report that global incidents related to data security 
or credit card fraud in the hotel and lodging industry continue at an 
elevated level compared to other industries. IHG takes this risk very 
seriously and has been using risk-based methods to build capability 
and resilience into our systems for a number of years, as well as 
moving towards full compliance to Payment Card Industry – Data 
Security Standards (PCI-DSS). The Group has engaged a leading 
specialist third-party provider to support it achieving PCI-DSS 
compliance for core systems and is actively pursuing PCI-DSS 
compliance in all managed and owned hotels. IHG has also 
extended the service offering to franchised hotels. The Group 
manages data security incidents through a Data Security Task 
Force and the Information Security Council continues as a 
governing body (attended by senior executives from across the 
business) directly focused on containing this risk and considering 
innovative techniques to reduce the Group’s exposure; and
Technology	 change,	 maintenance	 and	 upgrading	 of	 IT	 systems	 	
and	 platforms – IHG is reliant on a number of key IT systems and 
platforms which require continuous investment, maintenance  
and upgrades to meet changing user requirements and system 
capabilities and to benefit from new technologies. The Group 
continues to invest substantially in IT, with a number of key 
initiatives rolled out in 2011. For example, a new web-based email 
service leveraging cloud computing was launched globally in our 
corporate offices and managed and owned hotels. This gave end 
users a more powerful system that is more resilient and cost 
effective for the business. The Group also strengthened project  
risk management and project governance capability to ensure 
alignment of strategic projects, successful project delivery and to 
minimise business interruption.  BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 37
Managing risk in hotels
IHG’s commitment to safety, security and crisis management in 
hotels remains fundamental to its business. We appreciate the 
difference between a safe hotel and those that are poorly designed 
or operated, and we require that all IHG hotels become compliant 
with a new set of global Brand Safety Standards launched in 2011.
Our approach has been to enable and support hotel owners, 
General Managers and front line hotel staff to manage risk 
effectively. This is accomplished by giving them a systematic 
approach and framework to follow and by providing them with 
user-friendly tools to do the job. This includes a comprehensive 
suite of risk management, safety and security training, aligned to 
different roles and competency levels. Many of these offerings are 
accredited by the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
SAFE 
HOTEL
SECURITY
CRISIS &
INCIDENT
FIRE 
SAFETY
LEISURE
SAFETY
GUEST 
SAFETY
FOOD 
SAFETY
STAFF 
SAFETY
MANAGE
RISK
RISK
PROFILE
POLICY &
STANDARDS
REVIEW 
& REPORT
WAYS OF
WORKING
RISK
FINANCING
TRAINING
& COMMS
OPERATE 
& CONTROL
Hotel safety framework
t he hotel safety framework enables a consistent 
approach to managing safety and security risk in IHG 
hotels. t he framework is illustrated by showing two 
mechanical cogs meshed together showing different 
types of safety and security risks in the ‘Safe Hotel’ 
cog, against the actions described in the ‘manage 
Risk’ cog. t his framework is actively managed by 
IHG’s risk managers around the world, working with 
hotels and their management teams in order to keep 
hotels safe and secure.
t he hotel risk profile is developed through various 
means including self-assessment, guest satisfaction 
surveys, design and engineering plans, incidents, 
intelligence gathering, quality audits and risk 
management reviews. IHG hotel management 
discuss issues at monthly safety meetings and  
action plans are developed. Risks are prioritised, 
responsibility is assigned and improvement actions 
are identified, progressed and monitored. Action 
plans are reviewed at appropriate levels in the 
organisation for issues that need to be escalated, 
either to drive action or to develop common solutions. 	 38	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
2012 risk factors
Whilst the Major Risk Review focused on a number of changing or emerging risks which represent the priorities for today, the Group is 
subject to a variety of inherent risks which may have an adverse impact on the business operations, cash flow, financial condition, turnover, 
profits, assets, liquidity and capital reserves. The following section describes some of the main risks that could materially affect the 
Group’s business. The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces. Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does 
not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material. 
The risk factors below should be considered in connection with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Report and the 
cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements contained on page 129.
Strategic	 risks
t he Group is exposed to  
the risks of political and 
economic developments
The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial market developments such as recession, 
inflation, availability of credit and currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income. 
A recession reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects 
room rates and/or occupancy levels and other income-generating activities. This may result in 
deterioration of results of operations and potentially reduce the value of properties in affected 
economies. The owners or potential owners of hotels franchised or managed by the Group face  
similar risks which could adversely impact IHG’s ability to retain and secure franchise or management 
agreements. More specifically, the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is 
particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy.
t he Group is exposed to  
the risk of events that 
adversely impact domestic  
or international travel
The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely impacted by events that reduce 
domestic or international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, political or civil 
unrest, epidemics, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, increased transportation 
and fuel costs and natural disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors 
impacting individual hotels. A decrease in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events  
may have an adverse impact on the Group’s operations and financial results. In addition, inadequate 
preparedness, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may 
prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of  
the Group.
t he Group is exposed to the 
risks of the hotel industry 
supply and demand cycle
The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected by industry overcapacity  
(by number of rooms) and weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry,  
or other differences between planning assumptions and actual operating conditions. Reductions  
in room rates and occupancy levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
Tactical	 risks	
t he Group is exposed to a 
variety of risks related to 
identifying, securing and 
retaining franchise and 
management agreements
The Group’s growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining franchise 
and management agreements. This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise business 
model. Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of suitable 
franchise, management and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining 
position of property owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager. The terms of new 
franchise or management agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements and the 
Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements on similarly favourable terms or at all.
There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, retain or add franchisees to the 
Group system or to secure management contracts. For example, the availability of suitable sites, 
market saturation, planning and other local regulations or the availability and affordability of finance 
may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management 
agreements. In connection with entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group may be 
required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third-parties or guarantee minimum 
income to third-parties. There are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may 
have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the 
unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement initiatives. This could result in franchisees 
exiting the system which would adversely impact overall system size.
In addition, changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be implemented that have the effect of 
favouring franchisees relative to brand owners. BUSINESS REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 business review	 39
Tactical	 risks	 continued
t he Group is exposed to 
inherent risks in relation  
to changing technology  
and systems
The Group is reliant upon certain technologies and systems (including IT systems) for the running  
of its business, particularly those which are highly integrated with business operational processes. 
Disruption to those technologies or systems could adversely affect the efficiency of the business, 
notwithstanding business continuity or disaster recovery processes. The Group may have to make 
substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive. Failing to 
keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at a competitive 
disadvantage. The technologies or systems that the Group chooses may not be commercially 
successful or the technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently aligned with  
the needs of the business or responsive to changes in business strategy. As a result, the Group  
could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs or face other losses.
Operational	 risks
t he Group is reliant on the 
reputation of its brands  
and the protection of its 
intellectual property rights
Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the Group’s brands and/or fails to 
sustain the appeal of the Group’s brands to its customers may have an adverse impact on the value of 
that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business. 
In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to its safety or operating and quality 
standards, or the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its franchise and 
management contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer 
perception and therefore the value of the Group’s brands.
In addition, the value of the Group’s brands is influenced by a number of other factors, some of which 
may be outside the Group’s control, including commoditisation (whereby price and/or quality becomes 
relatively more important than brand identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of 
third-party intermediaries), consumer preference and perception, or other factors affecting consumers’ 
willingness to purchase goods and services.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Group’s business, the Group has invested 
considerable resources in protecting its intellectual property, including registration of trademarks  
and domain names. However, the controls and laws globally are variable and subject to change. Any 
widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially 
harm the value of the Group’s brands and its ability to develop the business.
t he Group requires the  
right people, skills and 
capability to manage  
growth and change
In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right people. This includes hiring and 
retaining highly skilled employees with particular expertise or leadership capability. The 
implementation of the Group’s strategic business plans could be undermined by failure to build 
resilient corporate culture, recruit or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, 
failures in the Group’s succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the 
development of key skills. 
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing economic growth and the Group 
must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified 
or experienced employees. Some emerging markets may not have the required local expertise to 
operate a hotel and may not be able to attract the right talent. Failure to attract and retain employees 
may threaten the success of the Group’s operations in these markets. Additionally, unless skills are 
supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group 
risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
t he Group is reliant upon its 
proprietary reservations 
system and is exposed to the 
risk of failures in the system 
and increased competition in 
reservations infrastructure
The value of the Group’s brands is partly derived from the ability to drive reservations through its 
proprietary HolidexPlus reservations system, a central repository of the Group’s hotel room 
inventories linked electronically to multiple sales channels including IHG’s own websites, call centres 
and hotels, third-party intermediaries and travel agents.
Lack of resilience and operational availability could lead to prolonged service disruption and may result 
in significant business interruption and subsequent impact on revenues. Lack of investment in these 
systems may also result in reduced ability to compete. Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate 
technology strategy and select the right technology partners could erode the Group’s long-term 
competitiveness. 	 40	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
bu SIn eSS Rev Iew continued
Operational	 risks	 continued
t he Group is exposed  
to the risks related to 
information security
The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information 
including, but not limited to, guest and employee credit card, financial and personal data, business 
performance and financial reporting. 
The reputation and performance of the Group may be adversely affected if it fails to maintain 
appropriate confidentiality of information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable the 
release of information only through the appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner.
t he Group is exposed to a 
variety of risks associated 
with its financial stability 
and ability to borrow and 
satisfy debt covenants
While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network through activities that do not involve 
significant amounts of its own capital, the Group does require capital to fund some development 
opportunities and to maintain and improve owned hotels. The Group is reliant upon having financial 
strength and access to borrowing facilities to meet these expected capital requirements. The majority 
of the Group’s borrowing facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are 
complied with. Non-compliance with covenants could result in the lenders demanding repayment of 
the funds advanced. If the Group’s financial performance does not meet market expectations, it may 
not be able to refinance existing facilities on terms considered favourable.
t he Group is required to 
comply with existing and 
changing regulations across 
numerous countries, 
territories and jurisdictions
Governmental regulations affect countless aspects of our business ranging from corporate 
governance, health and safety, environmental, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, 
disability access, relationships, data privacy and information protection, financial, accounting and tax. 
Regulatory changes may require significant changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit 
the strategy including the markets we operate in, brand protection, and use or transmittal of customer 
data. If the Group fails to comply with existing or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to 
fines, prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputation damage. 
t he Group is exposed  
to the risk of litigation
The Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including guests, customers, joint venture 
partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees and/or the owners of hotels it 
manages. Claims filed in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory 
damages. Exposure to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory authorities may also affect the 
reputation of the Group and its brands.
t he Group is exposed  
to risks related to  
corporate responsibility
The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are influenced by a wide variety of factors, 
including the perception of stakeholder groups such as the communities in which the Group operates. 
The social and environmental impacts of business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is 
exposed to the risk of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently responsible 
practices, ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant regulatory requirements. 
t he Group is exposed to 
funding risks in relation  
to the defined benefits  
under its pension plans
The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its ongoing obligation to 
provide current and future pensions for members of its UK pension plans who are entitled to defined 
benefits. The contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to making prudent provision 
for the benefits accruing under the plans of the Group.
In particular, the trustees of IHG’s UK defined benefit plan may demand increases to the contribution 
rates relating to the funding of this plan, which would oblige relevant employers of the Group to 
contribute extra amounts. The trustees must consult the plan’s actuary and principal employer before 
exercising this power. In practice, contribution rates are agreed between the Group and the trustees on 
actuarial advice, and are set for three-year terms. The funding implications of the last actuarial review 
are disclosed in the notes to the Group financial statements on pages 106 to 109.
t he Group may face 
difficulties insuring  
its business
Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined to be appropriate in light of the 
cost of cover and the risk profiles of the business in which it operates. However, forces beyond the 
Group’s control, including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain and the 
Group’s ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Other forces beyond the Group’s control, such as 
terrorist attacks or natural disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure. Inadequate 
or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital 
invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave the 
Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to such properties. 	 Page header	 41
BUSINESS REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
In this section we present 
our Board and senior 
management team, our 
governance processes  
and procedures, and our 
compliance with the codes 
and regulations to which  
we are committed. We also 
present details of Directors’ 
remuneration in 2011, and 
the structure of senior 
executives’ pay for 2012.
Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund, China
	 The Board, senior management and their responsibilities 41
  The Board, senior 
managemen T and  
Their responsiB ili Ties 	 42	 The	Board	of	Directors
	 43	 	 Other	members	of	the 	 	
Executive	 Committee
	 44	 Directors’	report
	 46	 Corporate 	 governance
	 52	 Audit	Committee	report
	 53	 Nomination 	 Committee	 report
	 54	 Remuneration 	 report
	 54	 Shareholder 	 letter
	 55	 Introduction
	 55	 The	Remuneration	Committee
	 56	 Business	strategy	and	remuneration
	 58	 Total	remuneration
	 59	 Changes	to	the	Board
	 59	 Base	salary	and	benefits
	 60	 Annual	Bonus	Plan
	 60	 Long	Term	Incentive	Plan
	 62	 Performance	graph
	 62	 Shareholding 	 policy
	 62	 Policy	regarding	pensions
	 63	 	 Non-Executive	Directors’	pay	policy 	 	
and	structure
	 63	 Service	contracts
	 64	 	 Audited	information	on 	 	
Directors’	emoluments  42	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
David Webster
Non-Executive Chairman
#
 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of  
IHG on the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003. Appointed 
Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004. Also Non-Executive 
Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital markets advisory 
firm, a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Holding SA, a 
transaction processing and technology solutions company for the 
travel and tourism industry, a member of the Appeals Committee  
of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a Director of Temple  
Bar Investment Trust PLC. Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc  
and a Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC. Age 67.
Richard Solomons
Chief Executive
† ∞
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2011. Previously Chief Financial 
Officer and Head of Commercial Development. Joined the Group  
in 1992 and held a variety of senior financial and operational roles, 
including Chief Operating Officer of The Americas Hotels division. 
Became Finance Director of the Hotels business in October 2002  
in anticipation of the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003. 
A chartered accountant and a member of the Executive Committee 
of the World Travel & Tourism Council. Age 50.
Thomas Singer
Chief Financial Officer
†
Appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2011. Prior to joining 
the Group, he was Group Finance Director and a main board member 
of Bupa, a global healthcare provider. Previously Group Finance 
Director and Chief Operating Officer at William Hill PLC and Finance 
Director at Moss Bros Group PLC. Responsible for corporate and 
regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, investor relations, 
tax, treasury, commercial development and procurement. Age 48.
Kirk Kinsell
President, The Americas
†
Appointed a Director in August 2010. Has over 29 years’ experience 
in the hospitality industry, including senior franchise positions  
with Holiday Inn Corporation and ITT Sheraton. Joined the Group  
in 2002 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for  
The Americas region. Became an Executive Committee member in 
September 2007 and was previously President, Europe, Middle East 
and Africa until June 2011. Responsible for the business development 
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in The 
Americas region. Age 57.
Tracy Robbins
Executive Vice President, Human Resources and  
Head of Operations Support
†
Appointed a Director in August 2011. Has over 26 years’ experience in 
line and HR roles in service industries. Joined the Group in December 
2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world-leading food service 
company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership & 
Development Director. Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels 
Group. Has global responsibility for talent management, leadership 
development, employee reward strategy and implementation, 
organisational capability and operations support. Age 48.
David Kappler
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director*
#•
 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in June 2004. 
A Non-Executive Director of Shire plc. A qualified accountant and 
formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc and 
Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc. Also served as a 
Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.  
A member of the Trilantic Europe Advisory Council. Age 64.
Graham Allan
Independent Non-Executive Director*
# ∞
Appointed a Director in January 2010. Became Chief Executive 
Officer of Yum! Restaurants International (YRI), a subsidiary of  
Yum! Brands, Inc., in 2010 after serving as President of YRI since 
2003. Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Operating 
Officer of YRI and Managing Director of YRI in Europe. Has over  
20 years’ experience in brand management, marketing, franchising 
and retail development. Age 56.
Jennifer Laing
Independent Non-Executive Director*
#
∞
 
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
Appointed a Director in August 2005. Was Associate Dean, External 
Relations at London Business School, until 2007. A Fellow of the 
Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, 
has over 30 years’ experience in advertising including 16 years  
with Saatchi & Saatchi. Also a Non-Executive Director of Hudson 
Highland Group, Inc., a US human resources company. Age 64.
Jonathan Linen
Independent Non-Executive Director
#•
Appointed a Director in December 2005. Was formerly Vice Chairman 
of the American Express Company, having held a range of senior 
positions throughout his career of over 35 years with American 
Express. A Non-Executive Director of Yum! Brands, Inc. and 
Modern Bank, N.A., a US private banking company. Also serves  
on a number of US Councils and advisory boards. Age 68.
Luke Mayhew
Independent Non-Executive Director
#• 
∞
  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Appointed a Director in July 2011. A Non-Executive Director of 
Brambles Limited, a global provider of supply chain and information 
management solutions. Previously served for 12 years on the Board 
of John Lewis Partnership, including as Managing Director of the 
Department Store Division. Was a Non-Executive Director of  
WH Smith PLC and Chairman of Pets at Home Group Limited.  
Age 58.
The Bo ARd o F diRecToRS BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Ying Yeh
Independent Non-Executive Director
#• ∞
Appointed a Director in December 2007. Was formerly Vice 
President and Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company 
and Chairman and President, North Asia Region, President, 
Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, 
Eastman Kodak Company. Also a Non-Executive Director of AB 
Volvo and ABB Ltd. Was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US 
Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997. Age 63.
Jan Smits 
Chief Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa
†§
Has 30 years’ experience in the hospitality industry. Joined the 
Group in 2002 and held various senior positions in the Asia and 
Australasia region. Became Managing Director, Asia Australasia  
in June 2009. Following the amalgamation of our Middle East  
and Africa region with our Asia Australasia region, became Chief 
Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in August 2011. Responsible 
for the business development and performance of all the hotel 
brands and properties in Asia, Middle East and Africa. Age 51. 
George Turner
Executive Vice President, General Counsel  
and Company Secretary
†§
Solicitor, qualified to private practice in 1995. After 12 years with 
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, where he was Deputy Company 
Secretary, he joined the Group in September 2008. Appointed 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary 
in January 2009. Responsible for corporate governance, risk 
management, insurance, data privacy, internal audit, legal and 
corporate responsibility and public affairs. Age 41.
The Board of Directors and members of the Executive 
Committee together comprise the IHG Senior  
Leadership Team. 
While the Directors have certain specific legal and 
regulatory duties and responsibilities, they work with  
and rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of the 
Executive Committee members to secure the effective 
running of the business in support of IHG’s core purpose  
to create Great Hotels Guests Love, and its Vision to 
become one of the world’s great companies.
*   A member of the Audit Committee 
#
   A member of the Nomination Committee
•   A member of the Remuneration Committee
∞
   A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
†
  A member of the Executive Committee 
§
  Not a main Board Director
Dale Morrison
Independent Non-Executive Director*
#
Appointed a Director in June 2011. A founding partner of TriPointe 
Capital Partners, a private equity firm. Was previously President  
and Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Limited and  
President and Chief Executive Officer of Campbell Soup Company.  
A Non-Executive Director of International Flavors & Fragrances 
Inc., a producer of flavours and fragrances. Age 63. 
Keith Barr
Chief Executive, Greater China
†§
Has over 19 years’ experience in the hospitality industry. Joined the 
Group in 2000. Following senior appointments including Vice 
President of Sales and Revenue Management, Vice President of 
Operations and Chief Operating Officer, Australia, New Zealand and 
South Pacific, he was appointed Managing Director, Greater China 
in June 2009 and became Chief Executive, Greater China in April 
2011. Responsible for the business development and performance 
of all the hotel brands and properties in the Greater China region. 
Age 41.
Angela Brav
Chief Executive, Europe
†§
Has over 23 years’ experience in the hospitality industry,  
including hotel operations, franchise relations and technology 
solutions. Joined the Group in 1988 and held various senior roles  
in the Group’s US and European businesses prior to becoming Chief 
Operating Officer, North America. Was appointed Chief Executive, 
Europe in August 2011, responsible for the business development 
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe. 
Age 49.
Tom Conophy
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer
†§
Has over 31 years’ experience in the IT industry, including 
management and development of new technology solutions within 
the travel and hospitality business. Joined the Group in February 
2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held 
the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer. 
Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and 
information management throughout the Group. Age 51.
	 The Board of d irectors and other members of the e xecutive committee	 43
oTheR memBeRS oF The ex ecu Tive commiTTee  44	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2011.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is 
provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2011. These include the Business review,  
the Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration reports and the Group financial 
statements, and these are, accordingly, incorporated into this 
report by reference.
Activities of the Group
The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts,  
with franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests 
in over 4,400 establishments, with more than 658,000 guest rooms 
in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
Business review
This Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the 
Chairman’s statement and the Chief Executive’s review on pages  
3 to 5, and the Business review on pages 8 to 40. Taken together, 
these provide a fair review of the Group’s strategy and business, 
significant developments during 2011 and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties it faces. IHG has set out how it 
manages some of the risks it sees as changing or dynamic on  
page 36 and the main risks that could materially affect the Group’s 
business on pages 38 to 40. The development and performance of 
the business during and at the end of the year are described, 
together with main trends, factors and likely developments, key 
performance indicators, environmental and employee matters,  
and social and community issues.
Results and dividends
The operating profit before exceptional items was $559m: the 
Group’s income statement is set out on page 72. An interim dividend 
of 9.8p per share (16.0 cents per ADR) was paid on 7 October 2011. 
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 24.7p per share 
(39.0 cents per ADR) to be paid on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on 
the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 March 2012. 
Therefore, the full-year dividend will be 34.5p per share (55.0 cents 
per ADR) (2010 30p per share (48.0 cents per ADR)). Total dividends 
relating to the year are expected to amount to $159m.
Share capital 
The Company’s issued share capital at 31 December 2011 consisted 
of 290,548,089 ordinary shares of 13
29
⁄47p each. There are no 
special control rights or restrictions on transfer attaching to these 
ordinary shares. During the year, 1,075,438 new shares were issued 
under employee share plans.
IHG operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) for the 
benefit of employees and former employees. The ESOT purchases 
shares in the market and releases them to current and former 
employees in satisfaction of share awards. During the year, the 
ESOT released 4,111,489 shares and at 31 December 2011 it held 
1,464,231 shares in the Company. The ESOT adopts a prudent 
approach to purchasing shares, using funds provided by the Group, 
based on expectations of future requirements.
No awards or grants over shares were made during 2011 that would 
be dilutive of the Company’s ordinary share capital. Current policy 
is to settle the majority of awards or grants under the Company’s 
share plans with shares purchased in the market. A number of 
options granted up to 2005 are yet to be exercised and will be 
settled with the issue of new shares.
The Company has not utilised the authority given by shareholders at 
any of its Annual General Meetings to allot shares for cash without 
first offering such shares to existing shareholders.
Share repurchases
No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority 
granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held 
on 27 May 2011. The share buyback authority remains in force until  
the AGM in 2012, and a resolution to renew the authority will be  
put to shareholders at that AGM.
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 31 December 2011 and 13 February 2012, the Company had 
been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, of the following 
significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares:
  At At 
  31 December 13 February Nature of 
  2011 2012 interest
 Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. 14.01% 14.01% Indirect
 Cedar Rock Capital Limited  5.07% 5.07% Direct
 BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% 5.02% Indirect
 Capital Research and 5.02% 5.02% Indirect 
 Management Company 
 Legal & General Group plc 3.96% 3.96% Direct
Directors 
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, any relevant 
legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the 
business is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the 
powers of the Company. These include the power to allot and to 
purchase shares. The Company’s Articles of Association may only 
be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are 
available on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors 
under corporate governance. 
Biographical details of Directors who served on the Board as at 
13 February 2012 are shown on pages 42 and 43. The following 
were Directors during 2011 and held office throughout the year, 
unless otherwise indicated:
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
James Abrahamson
1 
Graham Allan
Andrew Cosslett
2 
David Kappler
Kirk Kinsell Ralph Kugler
5
Tracy Robbins
3 
Jennifer Laing
Thomas Singer
4 
Jonathan Linen
Richard Solomons Luke Mayhew
6
   Dale Morrison
7
   David Webster
   Ying Yeh
1 Resigned on 13 June 2011. 5 Retired on 30 June 2011.
2 Retired on 30 June 2011. 6 Appointed on 1 July 2011.
3 Appointed on 9 August 2011. 7 Appointed on 1 June 2011.
4 Appointed on 26 September 2011.
Details of the beneficial share interests of Directors who were  
on the Board at the year end are shown on the following page.  
No changes to these interests occurred between the year end  
and the date of this Annual Report.
diRecToRS’ RePoRT BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 d irectors’ report	 45
of the Business review and in notes 21 to 23 to the Group financial 
statements on pages 99 to 105.
The Group is a party to the following arrangements which are 
terminable upon a change of control of the Company and are 
considered significant in terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole:
•  the Group’s five-year $1.07bn syndicated loan facility agreement 
dated 7 November 2011, under which a change of control of the 
Company would entitle each lender to cancel its commitment  
and declare all amounts due to it payable; and 
•  the terms of the £250m seven-year bond issued by the Company 
on 9 December 2009, under which a change of control would 
oblige the Company to redeem or purchase the outstanding notes 
together with interest accrued.
Policy on payment of suppliers 
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is a holding company and has  
no trade creditors. Group companies apply standard payment 
terms which are considered reasonable, transparent and 
consistent with prevailing commercial practices. These are agreed 
with suppliers and payments are contingent on goods or services 
being supplied to the required standard.
Auditors 
The Directors who held office as at the date of approval of this report 
confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves aware of 
relevant audit information. None of the Directors is aware of any 
relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to the auditors. 
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue  
in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will  
be put to members at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting 
The Notice convening the AGM to be held at 11.00am on  
Friday, 25 May 2012 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders 
at the same time as this Annual Report.
Going concern 
An overview of the business activities of IHG, including a review of 
the key business risks that the Group faces is given in the Business 
review on pages 8 to 40. Information on the Group’s treasury 
management policies can be found in note 21 to the Group financial 
statements on pages 99 to 103. The Group refinanced its bank 
facility in November 2011 and put in place a new five-year $1.07bn 
facility. The £250m seven-year bond issued in December 2009 
remains outstanding. At the end of 2011, the Group was trading 
significantly within its banking covenants and debt facilities. 
The Group’s fee-based model and wide geographic spread means that 
it is well placed to manage through uncertain times and our forecasts 
and sensitivity projections, based on a range of reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance and taking into account the risks 
and uncertainties outlined in the Business review, show that the 
Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board  InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
George Turner  Registered in England, Number: 5134420  
Company Secretary  13 February 2012
   31 December 2011 
   InterContinental Hotels Group PLC
    ordinary shares
1
Executive Directors  
Kirk Kinsell
2
  109,547
Tracy Robbins  43,108
Thomas Singer  –
Richard Solomons  252,166
Non-Executive Directors  
Graham Allan
3
  12,000
David Kappler  1,400
Jennifer Laing  3,373
Jonathan Linen
4
  7,343
Luke Mayhew  2,000
Dale Morrison  –
David Webster  35,828
Ying Yeh  –
1  These shareholdings are all beneficial interests and include shares held by 
Directors’ spouses and other connected persons. None of the Directors has  
a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary. These shareholdings  
do not include Executive Directors’ entitlements to share awards under the 
Company’s share plans, which are set out separately in the Remuneration 
report on pages 66 to 68.
2  108,910 ordinary shares and 637 American Depositary Receipts.
3  2,000 ordinary shares and 10,000 American Depositary Receipts.
4  Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
During the year, IHG has maintained cover for the Company’s and 
its subsidiary companies’ directors and officers under a directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance policy, as permitted by the 
Companies Act 2006. 
The Group has provided to all of its directors, indemnities in respect 
of costs of defending claims against them and third-party liabilities. 
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the 
purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and are all currently in force. 
There were no indemnity provisions relating to the UK pension plan, for 
the benefit of the Directors of the Company, in place during the period.
Employees
IHG directly employed an average of 7,956 people worldwide during 
2011, whose costs are borne by the Group. When the whole IHG 
estate is taken into account (including employees working in the 
franchised and managed hotels) approximately 345,000 people are 
employed globally across IHG’s brands.
Further information regarding the Group’s employment policies, 
including its obligations under equal opportunities legislation, its 
commitment to employee communications and its approach 
towards employee development, can be found on pages 27 to 30  
of the Business review.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group donated $1,540,000 (2010 $649,760) in 
support of community initiatives and charitable causes. In addition, 
IHG employees and guests made contributions during 2011 to a 
variety of causes through IHG facilitated channels. Taking all these 
contributions into account, total donations in 2011 are estimated at 
$2,040,000 (2010 $1,650,000).
The Group made no political donations during the year and 
proposes to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
Financial risk management
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies, 
including its use of financial instruments, are set out on page 26    46	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Chairman’s overview
IHG takes its corporate governance responsibilities seriously and 
aims to implement and uphold robust and responsible business 
processes and policies throughout the Group. We believe good 
governance supports high performance and the development  
of long-term strategy and performance. We are committed to 
sustained high performance supported by good governance.
In this section of the Annual Report, we report on our compliance 
against the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code). As IHG’s shares are also listed on  
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Company is subject to  
the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As required by  
the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the 
Company’s corporate governance practices and those followed  
by US companies may be found on the Company’s website at  
www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/ 
NYSE differences. 
As Chairman, I am responsible for providing leadership to the 
Board necessary to promote the success of the Company and 
create value for shareholders in the long-term, whilst ensuring  
that sound effective corporate governance practices are embedded  
in the organisation and its decision-making processes. I have 
therefore continued to facilitate a good relationship between the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and promote a culture of 
openness and debate to ensure that we have in place effective 
decision-making processes. 
In 2011, there were a number of changes to the composition of the 
Board. Following Andrew Cosslett’s retirement, Richard Solomons 
became Chief Executive in July 2011. Kirk Kinsell became President, 
The Americas in June 2011 following James Abrahamson’s 
resignation and in August 2011, we announced the appointment  
of Tracy Robbins as an Executive Director, demonstrating effective 
succession planning and strengthening the relationship between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. On 26 September 2011, 
Thomas Singer joined IHG as Chief Financial Officer from global 
healthcare group Bupa. We also made two Non-Executive Director 
appointments; Dale Morrison joined the Board in June 2011 and 
Luke Mayhew joined as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee in July 2011. Ralph Kugler retired 
from the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee in June 2011 after over eight years at 
IHG. The progressive refreshing of the Board ensures that we have 
appropriate continuation and a multi-skilled and diverse Board.
Code compliance
The Board considers that the Company has complied with all the 
principles and provisions of the Code, available at www.frc.org.uk, 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
 
David Webster 
Chairman
13 February 2012
Internal control and risk management 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In order  
to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the 
procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating 
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities. 
The Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating 
Committees have established processes, as part of the normal  
good management of the business, to monitor: 
•  strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of 
Group and regional strategic reviews; 
•  financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning 
and accounting framework; 
•  capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and 
authorisation processes; and 
•  risk management processes relying upon assurance (through 
reports from the Head of Global Risk Management, the Head of 
Global Internal Audit, and, as appropriate, from management)  
that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, 
evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the 
balance of risk, cost and opportunity. 
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: 
•  regular reports from management, Global Risk Management, 
Global Internal Audit and the external auditor on the effectiveness 
of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk 
management;
•  the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by 
management; and 
•  material financial and non-financial risks. 
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control and risk management during the year 
ended 31 December 2011. This covered all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls, the 
principal risks affecting the Group and risk management systems, 
and took into account any material developments since the year end. 
The review was carried out through the monitoring process set  
out above, which accords with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance. 
The system of internal control and risk management is designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failing to achieve business 
objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Whilst areas for improvement have been identified and actions 
initiated as a result of the above process, no significant shortcomings 
have been identified from the annual assessment.
The key financial controls across all our business units have also  
been identified and evaluated, in particular, to comply with our US 
obligations, arising from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. This has 
enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness  
of internal financial controls to be made in the Company’s Annual 
Report on Form 20-F.
The Group continues to insure against risks but certain risks 
remain difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.  
In some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at  
an economic price. The Group regularly reviews both the type and 
amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the 
availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude 
of the risks involved. Our approach to risk management, key risk 
mitigating activities and the principal risk factors that could affect 
the Group are set out in the Business review on pages 34 to 40.
coRPoRATe gove Rn Ance BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 corporate governance	 47
presentations on a wide range of business issues in a more 
informal context the evening before formal Board meetings. Should 
any Director be unable to attend a meeting, he or she would be 
provided with all the papers and information relevant to that 
meeting and be able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive.
During 2011, the Board held a two-day strategy meeting in 
Shanghai, China. The discussion topics included major trends in the 
industry, key responses and actions planned by IHG, new business 
development opportunities, execution of IHG’s strategy and the 
progress being made and an overview of the medium- to long-term 
financial impacts of our strategic choices. Evening presentation 
topics during 2011 included an update on the Crowne Plaza brand, 
innovation and brands and the Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express 
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games sponsorship.
Conflicts of interest
The Company’s Articles of Association allow the Directors to 
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where 
appropriate. The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest as  
a standing agenda item at each meeting. At the Board meeting in 
December 2011, each of the Directors was requested to disclose 
any conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a questionnaire to 
the Company Secretary. The Board considered all the responses to 
the questionnaires and approved potential conflicts of interest as it 
deemed appropriate.
Chairman 
David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout 2011. He 
has responsibility for ensuring the efficient and effective operation of 
the Board and its Committees, for overseeing corporate governance 
matters and ensuring they are addressed, for representing the Group 
externally and communicating particularly with shareholders. 
Working closely with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, 
he also ensures that Directors receive a full, formal and tailored 
induction to the Group and its business and that all Directors are 
fully informed of relevant matters. The Chairman also meets with 
the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present. 
Mr Webster is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell 
Limited, Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Holding SA, a 
member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and 
Mergers and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC. 
Chief Executive 
Richard Solomons became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011,  
having succeeded Andrew Cosslett who retired from the Board on 
30 June 2011. Mr Solomons has responsibility to recommend to the 
Board, and to implement, the Group’s strategic objectives and to  
manage business operations. He is responsible for the executive 
management of the Group and ensures that the Board understands 
Executive Directors’ views on business issues. He is also a member 
of the Executive Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council, 
a non-remunerated position.
Senior Independent Director 
David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout 2011. 
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with 
shareholders who have concerns that they feel have not been 
addressed through the normal channels, being a sounding  
board for the Chairman and leading the performance evaluation  
of the Chairman.
Board and Committee structure 
To support the principles of good corporate governance, the  
Board and Committee structure operates as set out below. 
The Board 
The Board’s current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, 
four Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors meets the 
requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, excluding  
the Chairman, to be independent non-executive directors. In  
the Board’s view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are 
independent. The Chairman was independent on his original 
appointment to the Board. Collectively, the Board has an 
appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence 
and diversity to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities 
effectively. The roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive  
are separate and have been approved by the Board. Directors  
of the Company who served during 2011 are set out on page 44. 
Current Directors’ biographical details, including their main 
external commitments, are set out on pages 42 and 43 of this 
Annual Report. 
The Board is collectively responsible to the shareholders for the 
strategic direction, development, performance and control of  
the Group. It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and 
revenue budgets. It reviews significant investment proposals and 
the performance of past investments and maintains an overview 
and control of the Group’s operating and financial performance.  
It monitors the Group’s overall system of internal controls,  
risk management, governance and compliance and considers 
regulatory changes and developments in advance, to ensure that 
IHG is well-positioned to maintain the Group’s trusted reputation  
in these areas. The Board also ensures that the necessary  
financial and human resources are in place for the Group to  
meet its objectives. 
The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive 
refreshing of the Board and its Committees. It establishes  
and regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas. It is the 
Nomination Committee’s responsibility to evaluate formally the 
required skills, knowledge, experience, independence and  
diversity of the Board, in a structured way. 
The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Board’s 
attention and decision may be found on the Company’s website  
at www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/ 
main board and executive committee. Certain specific responsibilities 
are delegated to the Board Committees, namely the Audit, 
Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 
Committees, which are described below. These Committees  
report regularly to the Board.
Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and 
additional meetings are held as necessary. This includes a two-day 
strategy meeting held in one of the Group’s key markets, in which 
the Board considers the Group’s strategy and related issues. This 
provides an opportunity for the business to have a wide-ranging 
dialogue with the Board and for the Board to meet many of our  
senior management and understand such key geographical 
markets. The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, 
plans the agenda for each meeting. Directors are briefed on the 
Group’s financial performance and its operations, including 
commercial and operational matters, reports on relations with 
investors and updates on key strategic plans, by means of 
comprehensive papers in advance of, and by presentations at, 
Board meetings. The Board also receives more in-depth   48	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Non-Executive Directors 
A team of seven experienced independent Non-Executive Directors, 
in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman, represents a strong 
source of advice and judgement. Each Non-Executive Director  
has significant external commercial experience and together  
they have a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience  
and represent a wide geographical spread. The Non-Executive 
Directors, including the Chairman, meet during the year to consider 
the Group’s business and management. 
Committees 
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and subject to review every year. These are 
available on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/committees or from the Company Secretary’s 
office on request. During the year, the terms of reference of all of the Committees of the Board were reviewed against the latest best 
practice guidance and the Code. As a result, some minor amendments in respect of the Code were made to update the Remuneration 
Committee’s terms of reference. 
A summary of each Director’s attendance at the Board and its principal Committee meetings during 2011 is provided in the table below:
        Corporate 
     Audit  Nomination Remuneration Responsibility 
    Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Current Directors
David Webster Non-Executive Chairman  8/8 n/a 4/4 n/a n/a
Richard Solomons
1
 Chief Executive  8/8 n/a n/a n/a 2/2
Kirk Kinsell President, The Americas  8/8 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Tracy Robbins
2
 Executive Vice President,   1/3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
   Human Resources and 
   Head of Operations Support
Thomas Singer
3
 Chief Financial Officer  3/3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Graham Allan Non-Executive Director  8/8 5/5 4/4 n/a 3/3
David Kappler
4
  Non-Executive Director and
   Senior Independent Director  8/8 5/5 3/4 5/5 n/a
Jennifer Laing
5
  Non-Executive Director  8/8 5/5 3/4 n/a 3/3
Jonathan Linen
6
  Non-Executive Director  7/8 n/a 3/4 4/5 n/a
Luke Mayhew
7
 Non-Executive Director  4/4 n/a 1/1 2/2 1/1
Dale Morrison
8
 Non-Executive Director  5/5 3/3 1/2 n/a n/a
Ying Yeh
9
 Non-Executive Director  8/8 n/a 4/4 5/5 2/2
Former Directors      
Andrew Cosslett
10
 Chief Executive  3/3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
James Abrahamson
11
 President, The Americas  2/3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Ralph Kugler
12
 Non-Executive Director  4/4 2/2 2/3  3/3 2/2
Total meetings held  8 5 4 5 3
1  Richard Solomons was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee effective 1 June 2011: attended all respective Committee meetings from this date onwards.
2  Tracy Robbins was appointed as a Director on 9 August 2011: attended all Board meetings from this date onwards except two due to illness.
3  Thomas Singer was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2011: attended all Board meetings from this date onwards.
4  David Kappler was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to other pre-existing meetings.
5  Jennifer Laing was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to other pre-existing meetings.
6  Jonathan Linen was unable to attend one Board meeting, one Nomination Committee meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a personal commitment.
7  Luke Mayhew was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings from this  
date onwards. 
8  Dale Morrison was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings from this date onwards except one Nomination Committee 
meeting due to an overseas travel commitment.
9  Ying Yeh was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee effective 1 June 2011: attended all respective Committee meetings from this date onwards.
10  Andrew Cosslett retired as a Director on 30 June 2011: attended all Board meetings prior to this date.
11  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011: attended all Board meetings prior to this date except one due to illness.
12  Ralph Kugler retired as a Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 June 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings prior to this date 
except one Nomination Committee meeting due to an overseas travel commitment. 
Company Secretary 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. His responsibilities include ensuring good information flows 
to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and 
the Non-Executive Directors. He facilitates the induction of Directors, 
the regular updating and refreshing of their skills and knowledge and 
assists them in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities. Through the 
Chairman, he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate 
governance and generally for keeping the Board up-to-date on all 
legal, regulatory and other developments. The appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board. 
coRPoRATe gove Rn Ance continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 corporate governance	 49
The principal Committees of the Board are:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has significant 
recent and relevant financial experience and is the Committee’s 
financial expert. During 2011, the other Committee members were 
Graham Allan, Ralph Kugler (until his retirement on 30 June 2011), 
Jennifer Laing and Dale Morrison. The Committee is scheduled to 
meet at least four times a year and met five times in 2011. The Audit 
Committee’s role is described on page 52. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Luke Mayhew, also 
comprises the following independent Non-Executive Directors:  
David Kappler, Jonathan Linen and Ying Yeh. Luke Mayhew 
succeeded Ralph Kugler as Chairman of the Committee on  
1 July 2011. It meets at least four times a year and met five times 
during 2011. The Remuneration Committee’s role is described  
on page 55.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Board 
and all the Non-Executive Directors. It is chaired by the Chairman of 
the Board except when matters relating to this position are discussed, 
in which case it is chaired by an independent Non-Executive 
Director. It meets at least twice a year and additional meetings are 
held as necessary. The Committee met four times during 2011.  
The Nomination Committee’s role is described on page 53. 
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Jennifer Laing. 
During 2011, the other Committee members were Graham Allan, 
Ralph Kugler (until his retirement on 30 June 2011), Luke Mayhew, 
Richard Solomons and Ying Yeh. Meetings are regularly attended  
by other members of the Board and Executive Committee. The 
Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year and met three 
times in 2011. The Corporate Responsibility Committee’s role is 
described on page 31.
Other Committees that report to the Board are:
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive. It 
consists of the Executive Directors and the most senior executives 
from the Group and usually meets monthly. Its role is to consider and 
manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing 
the Group. It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the 
business. It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment 
within levels agreed by the Board. It reviews and recommends to the 
Board the most significant investment proposals.
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Group’s Financial 
Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other senior 
executives, reports to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial 
Officer and to the Audit Committee. Its duties include ensuring that 
information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and 
US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represents 
the Group’s position in all material respects. 
General Purposes Committee 
The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive 
Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and 
restricted list of senior executives. It is always chaired by an Executive 
Committee member. It attends to business of a routine nature and 
to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been 
agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee. 
   50	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Board performance evaluation
IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the 
performance of the Board, its main Committees and its Directors. 
Accordingly, an independent external facilitator assists in the 
performance evaluation in alternate years. 
The 2010 evaluation, which was conducted internally by the Company 
Secretary, identified the following areas as requiring action and 
during 2011 we made progress on each of these as follows:
Area identified Action taken
The Board should devote 
sufficient time to consider 
strategic issues
Specific Board time was 
scheduled into the Board 
calendar to discuss strategy 
more regularly
Non-Executive Directors 
should be provided with 
enough opportunities to meet 
together without Executive 
Directors being present
Separate meetings were 
scheduled and attended only 
by Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors 
should provide an appropriate 
amount of time for Board 
communication with 
institutional investors
The Chairman and  
Non-Executive Directors 
made themselves available  
to meet with institutional 
investors on specific matters 
in relation to the Board during 
the year
The 2011 evaluation was conducted with external assistance in 
accordance with the guidance in the Code during January 2012.  
Our evaluation was conducted by Lintstock Limited, an independent 
facilitator, who has no other connection with IHG. 
The Board evaluation involved the completion of comprehensive 
questionnaires in which Directors and the Company Secretary  
were asked to evaluate the Board, each of its Committees and their 
respective Chairman and the Chairman of the Board. The 
questionnaires covered a variety of subjects, including Board 
composition, appointments, succession planning and dynamics, 
induction and ongoing training and development, board expertise 
and how the Board spends its time. Directors’ views were sought on 
the Board’s strategic and operational oversight and its input into risk 
management and internal control. They were also asked about 
investor and stakeholder relationships. The Board was asked to 
provide views on how improvements could be made and key priorities 
that the Board should consider with respect to its performance. 
The Chairman’s performance was appraised through feedback 
from the other Directors through the use of the externally  
produced questionnaire. The results were reviewed by the Senior 
Independent Director together with the Non-Executive Directors 
without the Chairman. All the Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman, met to appraise the Chief Executive’s performance. 
The Chairman also separately discussed with each Non-Executive 
Director their own performance.
Director induction, training and development
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction 
programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to 
introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal  
activities of the Group and with central and regional management. 
Luke Mayhew and Dale Morrison, as Non-Executive Directors 
appointed in 2011, participated in such a programme. 
By way of example, Luke Mayhew received an induction programme 
covering a variety of areas including the Board structure and its 
Committees, Group structure and strategy, the principal activities 
of the Group and its approach to risk and risk management. His 
programme was supported by meetings with both senior executives 
and regional and central management from various functions 
across the Group, including Human Resources, Corporate Affairs, 
Strategy and Corporate Development, Global Internal Audit and 
Financial Planning and Analysis. Meetings were also arranged by 
Investor Relations for him to meet institutional investor groups and 
key institutional investors to gain an understanding of their views. 
Mr Mayhew also visited our office in Singapore to provide him with  
a greater insight into the business. 
Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for any 
Executive Director who may join the Group and tailored induction  
is provided for Executive Directors appointed from within the Group, 
focusing on their responsibilities as Board Directors. Such 
programmes were implemented for Tracy Robbins and Thomas 
Singer on their appointments on 9 August 2011 and 26 September 
2011 respectively. We announced on 16 March 2011 that Richard 
Solomons would succeed Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive. 
Following a three and a half month transition and handover period, 
Richard became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011. All induction 
programmes accord with best practice guidelines.
The updating of all Directors’ skills and knowledge, ongoing training 
and development and understanding of the Group’s business and 
operations is a progressive exercise. This is accomplished at Board 
and Committee meetings through business presentations and by 
visits to hotels and other premises in the regions. During 2011, the 
Directors also received briefings on a number of legal and regulatory 
developments, including the impact of the UK Bribery Act 2010, 
reforms to the UK Takeover Code and a presentation from  
Ernst & Young LLP on the European Commission’s Audit Regulation 
proposals. The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees training and 
development needs with each Director. In addition, the Company 
Secretary regularly asks the Board if they wish to receive training  
or additional information to enable them to keep up-to-date and 
enhance their knowledge of the business.
Independent advice 
There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board and 
any of its Committees may take independent professional advice  
in the furtherance of their duties at the Company’s expense.  
In addition, they have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, the Company’s external legal advisers and  
the external auditors. 
coRPoRATe gove Rn Ance continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 corporate governance	 51
The Board received feedback on the outcomes through a report 
compiled by Lintstock Limited, which was presented and discussed 
at the Board meeting held in February 2012. The results confirmed 
that the Board and each of its main Committees continues to 
operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an 
effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The following actions for the Board were identified for 2012:
•  improve meeting processes to enable more time for wider 
Board discussion;
•  allot adequate time on agendas to review the effectiveness of 
past decisions; 
•  continue to encourage discussion on key strategic issues facing 
the Group; and
•  build upon and improve oversight of the main risks affecting  
the Group.
Appointment, removal and re-election of Directors
The rules governing the appointment and removal of Directors  
are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. New Directors  
are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) following their appointment and those Directors  
who have not been subject to re-election by shareholders within the 
last three years, must retire and stand for re-election at the next 
AGM. The office of a Director shall be vacated in the circumstances 
defined in Article 85 of the Articles of Association, for example, 
prohibition by law, bankruptcy, absence without leave. 
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies 
submit themselves for annual re-election. All members of the 
Board have agreed to retire from office and offer themselves  
for election or re-election (as appropriate) at the next AGM. 
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders at the 
same time as this Annual Report, provides further information 
about the Directors standing for election and re-election. The 
Nomination Committee and the Board reviewed the independence 
of each Non-Executive Director and concluded that each of them 
continues to remain independent in judgement and character. 
Information on Executive Directors’ service contracts and  
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment is set out on  
page 63. All Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment 
are available for inspection by shareholders in accordance with 
relevant legislation.
Shareholder relations 
The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its 
half-year and full-year results are announced. The Chief Executive 
and the Chief Financial Officer give presentations on these results 
to institutional investors, analysts and the media. Telephone dial-in 
facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these 
presentations for all shareholders. In addition, there are telephone 
conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results. 
The data used in these presentations and conferences may be 
found at www.ihgplc.com/investors under financial library.
IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with  
its major institutional shareholders, which provide an opportunity 
to discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the 
business, its performance, plans and objectives. The Chairman,  
the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors 
are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their 
issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy. 
Facilitated, structured meetings are encouraged and any new 
Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as a 
matter of course. 
A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to  
the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee 
and the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations. 
Additionally, the AGM provides a useful forum for one-to-one 
communication with private shareholders, many of whom are also 
customers. At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations on  
the Company’s performance and may ask questions of the Board, 
including the Chairman and Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
IHG facilitates both postal and electronic voting and all resolutions 
are voted on by way of a poll. This ensures that all votes are counted 
on the basis of one vote for every share held. All votes cast in 
respect of each resolution at the AGM are published on the 
Company’s website immediately after the AGM. Information on share 
capital and substantial shareholdings in the Company is set out in 
the Directors’ report found on page 44.
A comprehensive range of information about the Group is maintained 
and available to shareholders through the Company’s website, 
www.ihgplc.com.   52	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
•  the external auditor’s quarterly, interim and full-year reports; 
•  any non-audit work carried out by the Group’s external auditor 
(and trends in the non-audit fees) in accordance with the 
Committee’s policy to ensure the safeguarding of audit 
independence and objectivity; 
•  the effectiveness of the external auditor and consideration  
of their objectivity, independence and reappointment. Accordingly, 
the Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of 
Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor, having reviewed its 
independence and effectiveness. The external auditor is required 
to rotate the lead partner every five years. The current lead audit 
partner has been in place for less than one year; 
•  the scope of the annual Global Internal Audit plan, Global Internal 
Audit’s approach to delivering assurance, its resourcing and the 
results of its reviews; 
•  overseeing the financial control self-assessment process; 
•  the effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function and its 
compliance with professional standards; 
•  any major changes in the Group’s internal controls and control 
environment; 
•  the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions; 
•  the Group’s framework for the identification and control of major 
risks, and the results of the Group’s risk review process; 
•  developments in corporate governance and accounting standards 
in the UK and the US; 
•  reports from the Head of Global Risk Management on the 
activities of that function; 
•  consideration of the results of the Group’s tangible asset 
impairment review and going concern review; 
•  overseeing the Group’s Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 compliance work; 
•  the disclosure controls and procedures operated by the Group, 
with reference to periodic reports from the Chairman of the 
Disclosure Committee;
•  reviewing the Group’s approach to managing tax risk, including 
related policies and initiatives;
•  consideration of the Group’s technology strategy and related risks;
•  consideration of the Group’s treasury objectives and policies;
•  a review of changes to the Group’s policy on delegation of authority;
•  a review of the funding position and governance of the Group’s 
main pension plan;
•  periodic reports on any significant incidents of fraud or any 
allegations made via the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and 
the effectiveness of these procedures;
•  any material litigation involving the Group; and
•  consideration of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and the 
continuing appropriateness of its terms of reference.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee reviews, prior  
to endorsement by the Board, IHG’s statement on internal control 
and risk management. The Audit Committee has conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk 
management during the year ended 31 December 2011. The review 
was carried out through the monitoring process set out above, which 
accords with the Code and Turnbull Guidance. The Audit Committee 
has concluded that the Group’s systems of internal control and risk 
management during the year are operating effectively.
David Kappler  
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
13 February 2012
The Audit Committee supports the Board in meeting its 
responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and associated announcements, the adequacy of 
internal control and risk management systems and the 
appointment and work of the internal and external auditors.
The Committee’s composition and the attendance of its members at 
meetings during 2011 are set out on pages 48 and 49. The Committee’s 
Chairman and financial expert, David Kappler, is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and until April 2004 was Chief Financial 
Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc. He also chairs the Audit, Compliance 
and Risk Committee of Shire plc. The qualifications and experience 
of the other Committee members are detailed on pages 42 and 43.
The role of the Audit Committee is summarised below and in full in 
its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Company’s 
website www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/
committees or from the Company Secretary’s office on request. 
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to: 
•  review the Group’s public statements on internal control, risk 
management and corporate governance compliance prior to their 
consideration by the Board; 
•  review the Group’s processes for detecting and addressing fraud, 
misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider the 
response to any such occurrence, including overseeing the 
process enabling the anonymous submission of concerns; 
•  review reports from management, internal audit and external 
audit concerning the effectiveness of internal control, financial 
reporting and risk management processes; 
•  review with management and the external auditor any financial 
statements required under UK or US legislation before 
submission to the Board; 
•  establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the 
internal audit function, including overseeing the appointment  
of the Head of Global Internal Audit; 
•  assume responsibility for the appointment, compensation, 
resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditor, 
including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness; 
•  pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external 
auditor, and the fees to be paid for that work, along with the 
monitoring of the external auditor’s independence; and
•  oversee the Group’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and 
associated procedures for monitoring adherence. 
The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series  
of Audit Committee meetings during the year, at which detailed 
reports are presented for review. The Committee commissions 
reports, either from external advisers, the Head of Global Internal 
Audit or Group management, after consideration of the major risks 
to the Group or in response to developing issues. The Chief 
Financial Officer attends its meetings, as do the external auditor 
and the Head of Global Internal Audit, both of whom have the 
opportunity to meet privately with the Committee, in the absence  
of Group management, at the conclusion of each meeting. 
All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated 
member, the overriding consideration being to ensure that the 
provision of non-audit services does not impact the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity. The audit and non-audit  
fees paid to the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, during 2011 
are detailed on page 88. 
During 2011, the Audit Committee met five times and it considered 
various matters including the following: 
•  the quarterly, interim and full-year financial results. These public 
financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in advance of 
their consideration by the Board. There is adequate time between 
this review and the Board’s approval to complete any actions or 
further work requested by the Committee;
Audi T commi TTee RePoRT BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Audit committee report and n omination committee report	 53
Non-Executive Director appointments
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee 
considers the skills, experience, knowledge and diversity that 
would benefit both the Board and its Committees. In 2011, it 
engaged external consultants and briefed them on the attributes 
and skills needed by the business for Non-Executive Director roles 
and candidates were shortlisted for interview against objective 
criteria. Following this process, the Committee recommended the 
appointments of Dale Morrison as a new Non-Executive Director 
and Luke Mayhew as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee succeeding Ralph Kugler who retired 
from the Board. They were appointed to the Board with effect from 
1 June 2011 and 1 July 2011 respectively.
Diversity
IHG recognises the importance and benefits of diversity, including 
gender balance, throughout its global business and is committed  
to supporting women in reaching their full potential. IHG’s 
commitment to diversity throughout the organisation is set out on 
page 30. Currently IHG has three female Directors, out of a total of 
twelve Board members, and two women on our Executive 
Committee. It is our aspiration to continue to retain a minimum of 
25% female representation on the Board. We also look at diversity 
more broadly to ensure that the Board has the right balance of 
independence, skills, knowledge and experience.
David Webster  
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
13 February 2012
The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board and 
comprises the Chairman of the Board, who is Chairman of the 
Committee, and all Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman does 
not chair when the Committee is considering matters relating to 
this position, in which circumstances, the Committee is chaired  
by an independent Non-Executive Director, usually the Senior 
Independent Director. 
Role and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are 
summarised below and its full terms of reference are available  
on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under 
corporate governance/committees or from the Company 
Secretary’s office on request. The Committee: 
•  reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board  
and its Committees;
•  evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence, 
knowledge and diversity on the Board and in light of that defines  
a description of the relevant role and capabilities required for  
a particular appointment; 
•  makes recommendations on suitable candidates for approval  
by the Board; 
•  engages external consultants to advise on candidates for Board 
appointments and ensures that appointments are made on merit, 
against objective criteria, including the ability to commit time, and 
with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender; and
•  advises the Board on succession planning for Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Committee, assists  
in identifying and developing the role of the Senior Independent 
Director and will also consider the reappointment of any  
Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified  
term of office having given due regard to their performance and  
ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the 
knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for 
progressive refreshing of the Board. 
Activities in 201 1
During 2011, the Nomination Committee held four meetings and the 
attendance of its members at these meetings is set out on page 48. 
Some of the specific items considered included: 
Executive appointments
The Committee managed the search for a suitable candidate for  
the appointment of Chief Financial Officer. The Committee engaged 
the services of an external consultant for this. The search was 
undertaken against a detailed job specification setting out the 
particular skills, knowledge and experience required for this 
particular executive position and included consideration of both 
internal and external candidates. Accordingly, the Committee 
nominated Thomas Singer for the position and he was subsequently 
appointed by the Board with such appointment effective from 
26 September 2011. As a testament to our strong internal management 
capability and succession planning, the Committee recommended the 
appointments of Richard Solomons, previously Chief Financial 
Officer and Head of Commercial Development, to the role of Chief 
Executive effective as of 1 July 2011 and Kirk Kinsell, previously 
President, Europe, Middle East and Africa, as successor to the role 
of President, The Americas on 13 June 2011. The Committee also 
recommended the appointment of Tracy Robbins as an Executive 
Director, who joined the Board on 9 August 2011. 
nomin ATion commi TTee RePoRT  54	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
The maximum LTIP award remained at 205% of base salary having 
been reduced in 2009 from 270% of base salary. 
In the previous Remuneration report, we introduced two new 
performance measures for the 2011 LTIP award to enhance 
alignment of the plan to the Company’s strategy. These measures 
will apply to the 2011/2013 LTIP cycle award, which will vest in 2014, 
and subsequent awards; they are net rooms growth and like-for-like 
revenue per available room (RevPAR) growth. Each of these measures 
accounts for 25% of the LTIP weighting and are measured relative 
to major competitors. Relative TSR will continue to account for 50% 
of the LTIP weighting.
Following a review of the UK defined benefit pension plan, its 
closure to future accruals with effect from 1 July 2013 was 
announced. Active plan participants, including Richard Solomons,  
will be aligned with other employees on a consistent defined 
contribution structure. From 1 July 2013, the value of defined  
benefit pensions on retirement will be linked to inflation rather  
than to future salary increases. In line with other employees, 
participating Executive Directors will not receive any cash 
compensation for the impact this will have on their pension benefits.
As part of the consultation with employees and the plan trustees 
about these changes, it was agreed that the Enhanced Early 
Retirement Facility, which provides an option for plan members 
retiring with the Company’s agreement to retire within five years of 
normal retirement age on accrued benefits without reduction, 
would be retained. The level of plan funding provides for this facility. 
The Committee considered that the reduction in risk and expense 
achieved by closing the defined benefit plan justified the cost of 
retaining this facility for the existing active members of the plan.
Board changes in 2011
It was a year of significant change among the senior team with 
Richard Solomons, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial 
Development, succeeding Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive, who 
retired from the role in July. Kirk Kinsell took over as President, 
The Americas on James Abrahamson’s resignation in June, and 
Tracy Robbins was promoted to the Board in August. Richard was 
succeeded in his role as Chief Financial Officer by Thomas Singer 
who joined from Bupa. More detail on these changes and these 
Directors’ remuneration arrangements is included on page 59.
Remuneration in 2012
Following the changes to the structure of the 2011 incentive plans, 
the design and measures for the 2012 plans will remain effectively 
unchanged. However, we have introduced Committee discretion to 
claw back unvested share awards in exceptional circumstances. 
Further details of this are set out on page 57.
During 2012 we will be revisiting the ABP structure to ensure it 
continues to be designed optimally to drive and reward the annual 
financial and individual performance required to deliver our 
corporate strategy. We will report back on any outcomes next year.
Luke Mayhew 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
13 February 2012 
Dear Shareholder
There has been increased focus on executive pay during 2011.  
We have looked to reflect as far as possible the transparency 
sought by the UK Government. However, at the time of writing this 
report, we await final detailed proposals.
We remain confident that IHG’s remuneration plans and outcomes 
are aligned with the delivery of business performance and strategy 
and that our approach is appropriate to attract and retain the talent 
needed to build shareholder returns in this global business.
However, we also recognise the need to explain and justify clearly 
the level of Executive Directors’ remuneration and how and why 
bonuses and long-term incentives have been earned.
We continue to try to make this report easier to read and assess. 
We have expanded the explanation of the strong link between 
business strategy and Executive Directors’ remuneration. We have 
also set out what we consider the best measure of the actual 
remuneration for the year, being:
•  the cash the Executive Directors received in salary and bonus  
for 2011; plus
•  the value of the deferred shares received for 2011 performance; 
plus
•  the value of the 2009/2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)  
award triggered by performance for the three years up to and 
including 2011. 
We believe these are the most relevant figures for shareholders  
to focus on as they represent the remuneration generated by 
employment and performance in the year.
Performance in 2011
The remuneration outcomes reflect strong results with the Board 
recommending a final dividend which will deliver a 15% full-year 
increase for shareholders.
Key performance indicator growth (per annum)
   2011 2010
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)  +26.0% +22.6%
Three-year total shareholder return (TSR)* +29.8% +8.0%
Three-year adjusted earnings per share (EPS)* +2.5% +9.6%
* Annualised
Based on these results, 2011 Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) outcomes 
consisted of a cash bonus of up to 86.5% of base salary, and an 
award of deferred shares with a value of up to 86.5% of base salary, 
which will vest after three years (subject to continued employment). 
The 2009/2011 LTIP vested at 73.9% of maximum, representing 
151.5% of base salary for Executive Directors who participated  
in the full three-year cycle.
Remuneration in 2011
The maximum annual bonus under the ABP reverted to 200% of 
base salary after temporary changes made in the preceding two 
years to recognise the volatility of the economic environment.
There has been particular focus by the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee) in 2011 on the LTIP and the UK defined benefit 
pension plan. 
Remune RATion RePoRT BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 55
None of the aforementioned is in attendance when his/her own 
remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee’s remit is set out in its terms of reference which 
were updated by the Board in December 2011, and which can  
be found on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors 
under corporate governance/committees or from the Company 
Secretary’s office on request. The Committee agrees, on behalf  
of the Board, all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and the Executive Committee members, and agrees the 
strategy, direction and policy for the remuneration of other senior 
executives who have a significant influence over the Company’s 
ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Introduction
This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company’s Directors, describes its implementation, and sets out the amounts paid in 
2011. It has been prepared by the Committee and has been approved by the Board. It complies with the Companies Act 2006 and related 
regulations. This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The report includes the following:
1.  The Remuneration Committee 8.  Performance graph
2.  Business strategy and remuneration 9.  Shareholding policy
3.  Total remuneration 10. Policy regarding pensions
4.  Changes to the Board 11. Non-Executive Directors’ pay policy and structure
5.  Base salary and benefits 12. Service contracts
6.  Annual Bonus Plan 13. Audited information on Directors’ emoluments
7.  Long Term Incentive Plan
1. The Remuneration Committee 
The independent Non-Executive Directors who served on the Committee during the year were as follows: 
   Role Meetings attended in 2011 Date of appointment to Committee
Ralph Kugler Chairman* 3/3  1 June 2008
Luke Mayhew Chairman* 2/2 1 July 2011
David Kappler Member 5/5  21 June 2004
Jonathan Linen Member 4/5 1 December 2005
Ying Yeh Member 5/5 1 December 2007
Total meetings held  5
* Ralph Kugler retired from the Board on 30 June 2011. Luke Mayhew was appointed to the Board as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2011. 
Committee meetings are also regularly attended by the following 
individuals who provide advice to the Committee on remuneration 
proposals:
David Webster (Chairman of the Board)
Andrew Cosslett (Chief Executive until 30 June 2011)
Richard Solomons (Chief Executive from 1 July 2011)
Tracy Robbins (Executive Vice President, Human Resources and  
Head of Operations Support)
Lori Gaytan (Senior Vice President, Americas Human Resources 
and Global Reward)
The Committee meets to discuss matters relating to the operation of the remuneration policy and emerging market practices. In 2011, the 
Committee met five times and discussed, amongst others, the following matters:
Meeting Agenda items discussed
4 August 2011 •  Update of 2011 Executive Committee  
Key Performance Objectives (KPOs); and
•  potential appointment of Tracy Robbins 
to the Board.
3 n ovember 2011 •  Introduction of claw back for LTIP and 
ABP deferred share awards;
•  executive remuneration issues,  
including a review of government  
and third-party proposals and market 
practice and trends;
•  IHG Pension Plan arrangements:  
defined benefit plan closure 
communications timeline;
• Chairman’s fee for 2012; and
• annual review of terms of reference.
Meeting Agenda items discussed
10 February 2011 •  2010 ABP and 2008/2010 LTIP vesting;
•  2011 ABP and 2011/2013 LTIP designs;
•  Executive Committee performance and 
salary review; and
• 2010 Remuneration report.
18 February 2011 •  Potential retirement of  
Andrew Cosslett; and
•  potential appointment of  
Richard Solomons as Chief Executive.
29 June 2011 •  IHG Pension Plan arrangements: 
discussion on closure of the UK  
defined benefit plan; and
•  potential recruitment and Board 
appointment of Thomas Singer.  56	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
2. Business strategy and remuneration
IHG’s remuneration approach is designed to support and reflect  
the delivery of business strategy by:
•  attracting and retaining high quality executives in an environment 
where compensation is based on global market practice;
•  aligning rewards for executives with the achievement of business 
performance targets, strategic objectives and returns to 
shareholders;
•  supporting equitable treatment between members of the same 
executive team; and
•  facilitating global assignments and relocation.
IHG’s remuneration structure for senior executives places a strong 
emphasis on performance-related reward. The Committee believes 
that it is important to reward management, including the Executive 
Directors, for targets achieved, provided those targets are stretching.
Business strategy is the driver of our reward structure. The 
business strategy is explained on pages 9 to 14. 
Throughout 2011, the Committee retained PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC), as independent consultants. PwC also support 
management in developing and implementing remuneration 
proposals. In addition, PwC provided additional services to IHG, 
including advice on employer and employee tax compliance 
processes for expatriate employees and on tax withholding 
obligations in relation to employee share plans. The following 
advisers were retained on behalf of the Company and provide 
information to the Committee on relevant matters:
•  Towers Watson provided advice on reward levels applicable in  
the markets relevant to the Group. Towers Watson did not provide  
any other remuneration services to the Group during 2011; and
•  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided other legal 
services to the Group throughout 2011. 
The terms of engagement for PwC and Towers Watson are available 
from the Company Secretary’s office on request. 
Remune RATion RePoRT continued
We show below how IHG’s Vision and strategy directly link to the current measures used in IHG’s incentive plans. 
GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE
WHERE WE COMPETE
Growing our core business in the largest markets where scale really 
counts, and also in key global gateway cities and resort destinations
Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale in new business areas
HOW WE WIN
Profitable market share
Progressive margins
Sustainable investment
Responsible business
NET ROOMS GROWTH
Supports our business model, segment and market
strategies to grow system size over three years
EBIT
Provides annual focus on earnings growth driven 
by core operating inputs, namely rooms growth, 
RevPAR, royalty fees and profit margins
LIKE-FOR-LIKE RevPAR GROWTH
Reflects the sustainable power of our brands, 
scale and experience, and engaged workforce
Focuses growth on quality rooms in key markets
INDIVIDUAL OVERALL PERFORMANCE RATING
Provides annual focus on key performance objectives 
 and leadership competencies for the role:
Best-in-class delivery – growth and other targets 
Talented people – employee engagement survey results
Preferred brands – brand performance targets
Responsible business – adoption of Green Engage
VISION AND STRATEGY REWARD MEASURES
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
Aligned with our Vision to become one of the world’s great companies
LTIP measures ABP measures
…achieved through strategic priorities
Individual reward elements for all Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are designed to provide the appropriate balance 
between fixed remuneration and variable ‘risk’ reward, linked to both the performance of the Group and the achievements of the individual. 
Approximately two-thirds of variable reward is delivered in the form of shares, to enhance alignment with shareholders’ interests.  BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 57
The following table shows a summary of the individual elements of remuneration provided to the Executive Directors, including the split  
of fixed and variable remuneration, assuming target performance is achieved on variable elements:
Reward 
element Purpose
Performance 
measures Payment Reward type
% of total 
remuneration 
if target 
achieved
Base salary 
(cash)
•  Recognises the market  
value of the role and  
the individual’s skill,  
performance and experience.
n/a Cash Fixed 30%
ABP •  Drives and rewards annual 
performance of individuals and 
teams against both financial 
and non-financial metrics;
•  aligns individual employee 
objectives with those of  
the Group; and
•  aligns short-term annual 
performance with long-term 
returns to shareholders.
Individual performance 
and EBIT, measured 
over one year
½ cash Short-term 
variable 
35%
½ shares 
deferred for 
three years
LTiP •  Drives and rewards delivery  
of sustained long-term 
performance on measures that 
are aligned with the interests  
of shareholders.
Net rooms growth, 
RevPAR growth and 
TSR relative to a 
comparator group, 
measured over  
three years.
Shares Long-term 
variable 
35%
The ABP and LTIP are explained further on pages 60 and 61 and all Executive Directors have the same fixed to variable pay split. The normal 
policy for all Executive Directors and Executive Committee members is that their performance-related incentives will equate to 
approximately 70% of total remuneration if target performance is achieved (this excludes pensions and benefits).
The Committee also reviews the balance of fixed and variable remuneration provided to the wider management population, to ensure these 
are appropriate relative to the Executive Directors and to market practice. The next section shows the components of total remuneration 
for each Executive Director.
Introduction of claw back in incentive plans
For awards made from 2012, the ABP and LTIP will allow Committee discretion to claw back unvested share awards in the following 
exceptional circumstances:
• serious misconduct that causes significant damage or potential damage to IHG’s prospects, finances or brand reputation; and/or
• actions that lead to material misstatement of accounts. 
This change is further to ensure that there is proper alignment between rewards and shareholder returns and is in line with developing 
market practice in relation to share-based incentive plans.  58	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
3. Total remuneration
The chart below sets out the actual and potential maximum remuneration outcomes for 2011 performance for current Executive Directors  
excluding Thomas Singer, who joined IHG in 2011 and did not participate in the 2011 ABP or receive any vested awards during the year.  
The elements shown are as follows:
Actual 2011 salary paid – for Richard Solomons, this is his actual pay for the year and reflects the salary increase that occurred part way 
through the year in respect of his change in role to Chief Executive; for Kirk Kinsell this shows actual salary paid converted into sterling.  
For Tracy Robbins, who joined the Board part way through the year, this represents 2011 actual salary paid, including salary paid prior to 
becoming a Director;
2011 ABP cash – the cash portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance;
2011 ABP deferred shares – the value of the deferred share portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance; and
2009/2011 LTIP – the value at 31 December 2011, of the 2009/2011 LTIP award made in 2009, which will vest on 15 February 2012 based on 
performance for the three years up to and including 2011. 
The maximum figures represent the maximum value of each element of remuneration that could have been received in each case by the 
Executive Director. For the 2009/2011 LTIP, the maximum value is based on the share price as at 31 December 2011.  
2011 2011
Richard Solomons
Maximum Actual Maximum* Actual* Maximum Actual
2011
Tracy Robbins Kirk Kinsell
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Value (£000)
 Actual 2011 salary paid             2011 ABP cash             2011 ABP deferred shares             2009/2011 LTIP
* Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars and the sterling values in the chart above have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62.
The percentage of total remuneration for 2011 that is performance-related exceeds the 70% level that would be payable for target 
performance. This reflects above-target performance for both the 2011 ABP and the 2009/2011 LTIP.
A more detailed explanation of how the individual elements of remuneration operate is given on pages 59 to 61.
Remune RATion RePoRT continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 59
4. Changes to the Board
Richard Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive 
on 1 July 2011 and his annual base salary increased to £700,000  
from this date. As Mr Solomons was previously an Executive 
Director in his prior role as Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Commercial Development at IHG, his incentive arrangements 
remained unchanged.
Andrew Cosslett retired from his position as Chief Executive,  
and his contract of employment and directorship terminated, on 
30 June 2011. There was no payment in respect of loss of office.  
In accordance with the current plan rules, the Committee released 
all ABP deferred shares upon retirement as there were no further 
performance conditions that would affect the number of shares that 
could potentially vest; as a result 155,657 shares vested on 1 July 
2011. Mr Cosslett continues to be eligible for a pro-rated vesting of 
his outstanding LTIP awards, which will be determined at the end  
of the relevant plan cycles, subject to performance conditions  
being achieved. In addition, Mr Cosslett received a pro-rated cash 
award under the 2011 ABP based on actual performance results  
at year end.
When Mr Cosslett ceased pensionable service on 30 June 2011, his 
accrued pension entitlement was £177,800 per annum before cash 
commutation. In line with the terms of the plan, he commuted part 
of this for a lump sum and immediately drew the remainder  
as pension. 
Thomas Singer was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 
26 September 2011. Mr Singer’s annual base salary is £540,000  
and his incentives are in line with IHG’s remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors. Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP. 
In order to secure his recruitment, IHG agreed to compensate 
Mr Singer for incentives from his previous employer that he had  
to forgo, and the Committee approved the following one-off 
arrangements which apply to Mr Singer only:
•  a cash payment of £480,000 to be paid in March 2012; and 
•  a restricted award of 46,635 shares which vests on 27 September 
2012, one year from the date of grant. These shares will be 
forfeited if Mr Singer leaves the Company before the vesting date. 
There are no performance conditions attached to these one-off 
arrangements and the awards are not pensionable. However it is 
expected that all shares that vest will be held by Mr Singer until  
he meets the expected shareholding set out on page 62.
In addition, to ensure immediate alignment to the long-term 
performance of IHG, pro-rated awards were made for the 
2010/2012 LTIP cycle and the 2011/2013 LTIP cycle of 137% and 
154% of salary respectively. Vesting of these awards is subject to 
the results of the performance conditions for the relevant plan 
cycle as outlined on page 61. 
As part of his recruitment terms, it was agreed that Mr Singer 
would not have a salary review until April 2013.
Kirk Kinsell (formerly President, Europe, Middle East and Africa)  
succeeded James Abrahamson as President, The Americas 
following Mr Abrahamson’s resignation from IHG on 13 June  
2011. In accordance with his termination arrangements, all of 
Mr Abrahamson’s outstanding deferred share awards under  
the ABP and unvested LTIP awards lapsed and he relinquished  
all rights to an annual bonus in respect of the 2011 ABP. No 
remuneration changes were made for Mr Kinsell as a result of  
his new appointment.
Tracy Robbins was promoted to the Board on 9 August 2011. Her 
annual base salary following promotion was increased to £400,000. 
However, as an Executive Committee member since joining IHG,  
Ms Robbins’ incentive arrangements remained unchanged.
5. Base salary and benefits
The salary for each Executive Director is reviewed annually. Base 
salary is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable. 
In reviewing potential salary changes, the Committee considers 
business and individual performance, average salary increases for 
the wider IHG workforce and, where appropriate, the terms offered 
by comparator and competitor companies.
When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups are 
chosen having regard to participants’:
•  size – market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number  
of people employed;
•  diversity and complexity of business;
•  geographical spread of business; and
•  relevance to the hotel industry.
In addition, benefits are provided to Executive Directors in 
accordance with local market practice. 
The current Executive Directors’ annual base salaries are shown  
in the table below*:
    2012 2012 2011 2011
Director  £ $ £ $
Richard Solomons 721,000  700,000
Kirk Kinsell   755,400  737,000
Thomas Singer 540,000  540,000
Tracy Robbins 412,000  400,000
*  Mr Kinsell is paid in US dollars and his annual base salary for 2011 and 2012 is 
shown in US dollars above. The equivalent sterling values calculated using an 
exchange rate of $1=£0.62 are 2011: £459,817 and 2012: £471,297. The 2011 annual 
base salary shown for Mr Solomons reflects his salary increase when appointed 
as Chief Executive. The 2011 annual base salaries shown for Mr Singer and  
Ms Robbins apply from the dates of their appointment to the Board.  60	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Actual 2011 result for current Executive Directors (as % of salary)
    EBIT % OPR % Total % 
Director  payout  payout  payout
Richard Solomons 113.5 51.8 165.3
Kirk Kinsell 113.5 43.1 156.6
Thomas Singer* N/A N/A N/A
Tracy Robbins 113.5 60.4 173.9
* Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP.
Structure in 2012
The annual bonus structure remains largely unchanged in 2012 
with awards under the ABP continuing to require the achievement 
of challenging EBIT goals before target bonus is payable.
7. Long Term Incentive Plan
The LTIP allows Executive Directors and eligible management 
employees to receive share awards, subject to the achievement  
of performance conditions set by the Committee, measured over  
a three-year period. Awards are made annually and, other than  
in exceptional circumstances, will not exceed three times annual 
salary for Executive Directors. 
Details on the performance conditions and outcome/current 
position for all outstanding awards as at 31 December 2011  
are shown in the table on page 61. 
For the 2011/2013 cycle, maximum awards were made at 205%  
of base salary. The performance conditions for the cycle are:
•  IHG’s TSR relative to the Dow Jones Global Hotels (DJGH) index  
(50% of the award);
•  cumulative annual growth of net rooms (25% of the award); and
•  cumulative annual like-for-like RevPAR growth (25% of the award).
Growth in both rooms and RevPAR will be measured on a relative 
basis against a comparator group of the major globally branded 
competitors: Accor, Choice, Hilton, Hyatt, Marriott, Starwood and 
Wyndham. A summary of the operation of the 2011/2013 LTIP cycle 
is shown below.
 
Threshold vesting will occur if IHG’s TSR growth is equal to the  
DJGH index. Maximum vesting will occur if IHG’s TSR growth 
exceeds the index by 8% or more, which is equivalent over time  
to upper quartile or better performance. In setting the TSR 
performance target, the Committee has taken into account a range 
of factors, including IHG’s strategic plans, historical performance 
of the industry, and FTSE 100 market practice. 
Performance
measures
Payment
structure
LTIP
2011/2013
25% RevPAR
25% Rooms
100%
Shares
50%
TSR
6. Annual Bonus Plan 
Structure and outcomes in 2011
Awards under the ABP require the achievement of challenging 
performance goals before any bonus is payable. These goals are 
set annually following the Board review of the annual budget.  
The maximum annual award an Executive Director or Executive 
Committee member can receive in any one year is 200% of salary. 
Achievement of target performance results in an award of 115%  
of salary. Half of any award earned is paid in cash, and the other 
half is compulsorily deferred in the form of shares for three years. 
No matching shares are awarded by the Company. 
Awards under the ABP are linked to individual performance and 
EBIT. Individual performance was measured by the achievement  
of specific individual KPOs linked directly to the Group’s strategic 
objectives, a selection of which is set out in the table on page 56, 
and an assessment against leadership competencies and 
behaviours. The KPOs are reviewed and agreed by the Committee.
Each year, specific quantitative targets and strategic objectives are 
set for each Executive Director and Executive Committee member, 
as relevant to their role. Performance is reviewed at the end of each 
year to determine an Overall Performance Rating (OPR). The OPR 
determines 30% of the annual award outcome. The OPR is reviewed 
and agreed by the Committee.
EBIT performance determines 70% of the annual award outcome. 
In 2011 threshold payout was 90% of target performance, with 
maximum payout at 110% or more of target. Payout for individual 
performance would be reduced by half if EBIT performance was 
below threshold. In addition, no annual award would be made on 
any measure if EBIT performance was lower than 85% of target. 
A summary of the operation of the 2011 ABP is shown below. 
 
For 2011, EBIT achieved was 104.1% of target for the year. Based  
on this performance, the following table shows the level of 2011 
awards, of which 50% was paid in cash and 50% in deferred shares 
that will vest after three years:
    Award as % of salary
Measure Key performance indicator Target Max
Financial  EBIT (70%) 80.5 161
Individual  OPR (30%) 34.5 69
   Total for 2011 115.0 200*
* Combined EBIT and OPR payout subject to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
Performance
measures
Payment
structure
Annual
bonus
for 2011
70%
EBIT
50%
Cash 30%
Individual
50%
Deferred
shares
Remune RATion RePoRT continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 61
The LTIP structure remains consistent for the 2012/2014 cycle,  
with the award level of 205% of salary maintained. Performance 
conditions will remain TSR relative to the DJGH index, cumulative 
growth of net rooms and cumulative growth in like-for-like RevPAR.
The awards for 2009/2011 and 2010/2012 have performance 
conditions based on relative TSR and EPS.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions under the LTIP, 
and awards lapse if they are not met.
The specific vesting performance conditions and, where relevant, 
position as at 31 December 2011 for the vested, outstanding and 
next conditional LTIP awards are set out in the following table:
For both rooms growth and RevPAR measures, threshold vesting 
will occur if IHG performance at least equals the average of the 
comparator group. Maximum vesting for either measure will only 
occur if IHG is ranked first in the comparator group. Vesting for 
points between threshold and maximum will be calculated on  
a straight-line basis. 
After testing the performance conditions set on grant, the 
Committee will review the vesting outcomes of the rooms and 
RevPAR measures against an assessment of earnings and quality 
of Company financial performance over the period. The Committee 
may reduce the number of shares which vest if they determine  
such an adjustment is appropriate. IHG’s performance and vesting 
outcomes will be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant 
Remuneration report.
Performance  
measure
Threshold 
performance
Maximum 
performance
Threshold
1
 
vesting
Maximum
1
 
vesting Weighting
Maximum 
award
Outcome/ 
current position
2009/2011 cycle
TSR Growth equal to 
the DJGH index
Growth exceeds the 
index by 8% or more
20% 100% 66.7% 102.5% Growth exceeded  
index by 7.9%
EPS Growth of 0%  
per annum
Growth of 10% per 
annum or more
0% 100% 33.3% 102.5% Growth of 2.5%  
per annum
Total vesting 
outcome
73.9% of  
maximum award
2010/2012 cycle
2
TSR Growth equal to 
the DJGH index
Growth exceeds the 
index by 8% or more
20% 100% 50% 102.5% Growth after two 
years exceeds index 
by 3.9%
EPS Growth of 5%  
per annum
Growth of 15% per 
annum or more
20% 100% 50% 102.5% Growth after two 
years of 20.4%  
per annum 
2011/2013 cycle
3
TSR Growth equal to 
the DJGH index
Growth exceeds the 
index by 8% or more
20% 100% 50% 102.5% Growth after one year 
exceeds index by 4.5%
Net rooms  
growth
Average of the 
comparator 
group
1st in the  
comparator group
20% 100% 25% 51.25% Will partially vest  
if current level of 
performance 
continues
RevPAR growth Average of the 
comparator 
group
1st in the  
comparator group
20% 100% 25% 51.25% Will partially vest  
if current level of 
performance 
continues
2012/2014 cycle
TSR Growth equal to 
the DJGH index
Growth exceeds the 
index by 8% or more
20% 100% 50% 102.5% –
Net rooms  
growth
Average of the 
comparator 
group
1st in the  
comparator group
20% 100% 25% 51.25% –
RevPAR growth Average of the 
comparator 
group
1st in the  
comparator group
20% 100% 25% 51.25% –
1 Vesting between threshold and maximum occurs on a straight-line basis.
2 Two years of cycle completed.
3 One year of cycle completed.   62	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
9. Shareholding policy
Share ownership
The Committee believes that share ownership by Executive 
Directors and senior executives strengthens the link between  
the individual’s personal interests and those of the shareholders. 
Executive Directors are expected to hold the value of twice their 
base salary in shares, or three times in the case of the Chief 
Executive. Executives are expected to hold all shares earned  
(net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities)  
until their shareholding requirement is achieved. 
The following table shows the guideline and actual shareholdings  
of the Executive Directors:
    Actual 
   Guideline  shareholding 
   shareholding  at 31 Dec 2011
Director as % of salary as % of salary
1
Richard Solomons 300 417
Kirk Kinsell 200 276
Thomas Singer
2
 200 –
Tracy Robbins
3
 200 125
1 Based on share price of 1,157p per share as at 31 December 2011.
2  Shareholding requirement took effect upon appointment to the Board  
on 26 September 2011.
3  Shareholding requirement took effect upon appointment to the Board  
on 9 August 2011.
Executive share options
From 2006, executive share options have not formed part of the 
Company’s remuneration structure. Details of prior share option 
grants are given on page 68.
Share capital
No awards or grants over shares were made during 2011 that would 
be dilutive of the Company’s ordinary share capital. Current policy 
is to settle the majority of awards or grants under the Company’s 
share plans with shares purchased in the market. A number of 
options granted up to 2005 are yet to be exercised and will be 
settled with the issue of new shares.
 
8. Performance graph
Throughout 2011, the Company was a member of the FTSE 100 index and, for remuneration purposes, used a TSR comparator group of the  
DJGH index. Accordingly, the Committee has determined that these are the most appropriate market indices against which to test the 
Company’s performance. The graph below shows the TSR performance of IHG from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2011, assuming 
dividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved by the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index. Over the five-year period, 
IHG’s TSR performance increased by just under 4%. Over the last three years, it out-performed the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index.
Total Shareholder Return: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 and v Dow Jones Global Hotels index
Source: Datastream InterContinental Hotels Group PLC
total shareholder return index
FTSE 100
total shareholder return index
Dow Jones Global Hotels
total shareholder return index
31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
120
108
104
89
100
80
60
40
20
0
10. Policy regarding pensions
Following an extensive UK pensions review and subsequent consultations 
with affected employees, it was announced on 29 September 2011 
that the UK registered defined benefit InterContinental Hotels UK 
Pension Plan (the IC Plan) would close to future accrual for existing 
members with effect from 1 July 2013. The IC Plan is already closed 
to new entrants. A cap on pensionable salary increases of RPI plus 
2.5% per annum became effective on 1 October 2011.
Richard Solomons and other senior UK-based executives 
participate on the same basis in the executive section of the IC Plan, 
and, if appropriate, the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme 
(ICETUS). This is an unfunded arrangement, but with appropriate 
security provided via a fixed charge on a hotel asset. ICETUS also 
closes to future accrual with effect from 1 July 2013. As an alternative 
to these pension arrangements, a cash allowance may be taken. 
Andrew Cosslett, who ceased to be a Director on 30 June 2011, also 
participated in the IC Plan and ICETUS. 
Tracy Robbins participates in the executive defined contribution 
section of the IC Plan on the same basis as other senior UK-based 
employees. Thomas Singer receives a salary supplement in lieu of 
pension benefits. 
Kirk Kinsell and other senior US-based executives participate  
in US retirement benefit plans. James Abrahamson, who ceased  
to be a Director on 13 June 2011, also participated in the US 
retirement benefit plan. Executives outside the UK and US 
participate in the InterContinental Hotels Group International 
Savings and Retirement Plan or other local plans.
Further details on the Directors’ pension arrangements are shown 
on page 65.
Remune RATion RePoRT continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 63
1 1. Non-Executive Directors’ pay policy and structure
Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is agreed by the Board and the Chairman, taking into account fees paid in other companies of 
a similar complexity. These fees also reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles. Accordingly, higher fees are payable to 
the Senior Independent Director who chairs the Audit Committee and to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 
Committees, reflecting the additional responsibilities of these roles. The Chairman’s fees are agreed by the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors’ fee levels are reviewed annually. In the final quarter of 2011 an increase of approximately 2% for the Non-Executive 
Directors was agreed from 1 January 2012. This increase is broadly in line with anticipated salary increases for executive and senior 
management employees across the wider organisation. The Chairman waived any right to an increase in respect of his fees for 2012.
The following table sets out the change in annual fee rates from 2011 to 2012 for the Non-Executive Directors:
     Fees at  Fees at 
     1 Jan 2012 1 Jan 2011 
Director Role  £ £
David Webster Chairman  406,000 406,000
David Kappler Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 105,060 103,000
Luke Mayhew* Chairman of Remuneration Committee 88,230 –
Jennifer Laing Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 77,520 76,000
Others Non-Executive Director  66,300 65,000
* Luke Mayhew became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2011. 
12. Service contracts
Policy
The Committee’s policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months. Richard Solomons,  
Thomas Singer, Kirk Kinsell and Tracy Robbins have service agreements with a notice period of 12 months. All new appointments will  
have 12-month notice periods, unless, on an exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, a longer initial notice 
period reducing to 12 months is used, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
No provisions for compensation for termination following change of control, nor for liquidated damages of any kind, are included in the current 
Directors’ contracts. In the event of any early termination of an Executive Director’s contract, the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
Current Executive Directors hold no non-executive directorships of other companies. However, the Company recognises that its Executive 
Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, 
and benefit the Company. Executive Directors are, therefore, permitted to accept one non-executive appointment (in addition to any positions 
where the Director is appointed as the Group’s representative), subject to Board approval, as long as this is not, in the reasonable opinion  
of the Board, likely to lead to a conflict of interest. Executive Directors are generally authorised to retain the fees received. 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. David Webster’s appointment as Non-Executive Chairman, effective from  
1 January 2004, is subject to six months’ notice.
All Directors’ appointments and subsequent reappointments are subject to election and re-election by shareholders. 
Biographies of each of the Directors and their main responsibilities can be found on pages 42 and 43.
Directors’ contracts
    Date of original   Date of original 
    appointment
1
 Notice period  appointment
1
 Notice period
Current Executive Directors    Current Non-Executive Directors
Richard Solomons
2
  10.2.03 12 months David Webster  15.4.03 6 months
Kirk Kinsell
3
   1.8.10 12 months Graham Allan 1.1.10
Tracy Robbins  9.8.11 12 months David Kappler  21.6.04
Thomas Singer  26.9.11 12 months Jennifer Laing 25.8.05
Former Directors     Jonathan Linen 1.12.05
Andrew Cosslett
4
    3.2.05  Luke Mayhew 1.7.11
James Abrahamson
5
  1.8.10  Dale Morrison 1.6.11
Ralph Kugler
6
   15.4.03  Ying Yeh 1.12.07
1  The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailed the insertion of a new parent company of the Group. All Directors serving at that time signed new 
letters of appointment effective from that date. The dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment of each of the Directors to the Group’s parent company.
2  Richard Solomons served as Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development until 30 June 2011 and became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
3  Kirk Kinsell became President, The Americas on 13 June 2011, having previously served as President, Europe, Middle East and Africa.
4  Andrew Cosslett retired on 30 June 2011.
5  James Abrahamson resigned on 13 June 2011.
6  Ralph Kugler retired on 30 June 2011.  64	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
From this point forward the information, which is provided in accordance with statutory and/or regulatory requirements, has been audited 
by Ernst & Young LLP. 
13. Audited information on Directors’ emoluments
Directors’ remuneration in 2011
The following table sets out the remuneration paid or payable to the Directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2011. 
       Total emoluments 
   Basic salaries and fees Performance payments
1
  Benefits
2
 excluding pensions
   2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
   £000 £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Andrew Cosslett
3
 419 820 740 723 15 28 1,174 1,571
Richard Solomons
4
 616 520 512 458 20 18 1,148 996
James Abrahamson
5
 212 196 16 178 27 6 255 380
Kirk Kinsell
6
 449 193 360 169 334 74 1,143 436
Tracy Robbins
7
 159 – 145 – 39 – 343 –
Thomas Singer
8
 142 – – – 45 – 187 –
Non-Executive Directors
David Webster 406 398 – – – – 406 398
Graham Allan 65 63 – – – – 65 63
David Kappler 103 100 – – – – 103 100
Ralph Kugler
9
 43 84  – – – – 43 84
Jennifer Laing 76 74 – – – – 76 74
Jonathan Linen 65 63 – – – – 65 63
Luke Mayhew
10
 43 – – – – – 43 –
Dale Morrison
11
 38 – – – – – 38 –
Ying Yeh 65 63 – – – – 65 63
Former Directors
12
 – – – – 1 1 1 1
Total 2,901 2,574 1,773 1,528 481 127 5,155 4,229
1  Performance payments comprise cash payments in respect of participation in the ABP but exclude bonus payments in deferred shares, details of which are set out in  
the ABP table on page 66.
2  Benefits incorporate all tax assessable benefits arising from the individual’s employment. This includes, but is not limited to, benefits such as the provision of a fully 
expensed company car, private healthcare, financial counselling and other benefits as applicable to the individual’s work location. 
3  Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. His base salary, ABP payment (which was paid all in cash) and benefits have been pro-rated to his date of 
retirement.
4  Richard Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
5  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. His base salary and benefits (these include payment for unused holiday on termination) have been pro-rated to 
his date of leaving. His pro-rated base salary received was $339,803 which equates to the figure in the above table, using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62. He did not receive an 
ABP payment. The performance payment relates to his cash payment in lieu of dividends, paid prior to his resignation, relating to his ABP deferred shares as outlined on 
page 66 and his special share award on page 67.
6  Kirk Kinsell received base salary of $720,160 which equates to the figure in the above table, using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62. Benefits incorporate the cost of expatriate 
benefits related to his international assignment outside the United States of America prior to taking up his appointment as President, The Americas, on 13 June 2011.
7  Tracy Robbins was appointed as a Director on 9 August 2011. Her base salary, performance payment and benefits have been pro-rated from her date of appointment.
8  Thomas Singer was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2011. His base salary and benefits have been pro-rated from his date of appointment. His benefits include 
receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of £41,979. He did not participate in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2011.
9  Ralph Kugler retired as a Director on 30 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of retirement.
10 Luke Mayhew was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated from his date of appointment.
11 Dale Morrison was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated from his date of appointment.
12 Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003. However, he had an ongoing healthcare benefit of £1,205 during the year.
Remune RATion RePoRT continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 65
Directors’ pension benefits
The following information relates to the pension arrangements provided for Messrs Cosslett and Solomons under the executive defined 
benefit section of the IC Plan and the unfunded ICETUS. Mr Cosslett ceased to be a Director on 1 July 2011.
The executive section of the IC Plan is a funded, registered, final salary, occupational pension scheme. The main features applicable to  
the Executive Directors are:
• a normal pension age of 60;
• pension accrual of 
1
⁄30th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service;
• life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary; 
• pensions payable in the event of ill health; and 
• spouses’, partners’ and dependants’ pensions on death.
When benefits would otherwise exceed a member’s lifetime or annual allowance under the post-April 2011 pensions regime, these benefits 
are limited in the IC Plan, but the balance is provided instead by ICETUS.
The defined benefit section of the IC Plan will close to future accruals by existing members with effect from 1 July 2013. ICETUS will also 
close to future accruals with effect from 1 July 2013.
James Abrahamson, who ceased to be a Director on 13 June 2011, has retirement benefits provided via the Six Continents Hotels, Inc. 
Deferred Compensation Plan (DCP). Kirk Kinsell has retirement benefits provided via the 401(k) Retirement Plan for employees of Six 
Continents Hotels, Inc. (401(k)) and the DCP. The 401(k) is a tax qualified plan providing benefits on a defined contribution basis, with the 
member and the relevant company both contributing. The DCP is a non-tax qualified plan, providing benefits on a defined contribution 
basis, with the member and the relevant company both contributing.
Tracy Robbins participates in the executive defined contribution section of the IC Plan. This section of the IC Plan is a funded, registered, 
defined contribution, occupational pension scheme. The main features applicable are:
• a normal pension age of 60;
•  employee contributions of 7.5% of salary and company matching contributions of 30% of salary (subject to the Annual Allowance,  
with any excess over the Annual Allowance as a salary supplement in lieu of pension benefits);
• life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary; and
• lump sum contributions payable in the event of ill health.
The following table sets out the pension benefits of the Executive Directors in the UK defined benefit plans: 
       Andrew  Richard 
       Cosslett
1
 Solomons
2
        £ £
Directors’ contributions in the year
3
      20,400 26,000
Transfer value of accrued benefits at 1 January 2011     3,438,100 4,708,400
Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31 December 2011     5,643,300 6,999,800
Increase in transfer value over the year, less Directors’ contributions    2,184,800 2,265,400
Absolute increase in accrued pension
4
 per annum     18,500 65,100
Increase in accrued pension
5
 per annum      10,300 52,900
Accrued pension at 31 December 2011
6
 per annum     180,000 304,300
Age at 31 December 2011      56 50
1  When Andrew Cosslett ceased pensionable service with the Group on 30 June 2011, under the terms of the IC Plan his pension entitlement was £177,800 per annum  
before any cash commutation. In line with the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility (EERF) which is available to all members of the plan, this pension was not reduced on 
retirement. This facility enables members to retire without reduction in pension if they are within five years of normal retirement age. Although the EERF is non-contractual,  
its continuation formed part of the agreement with trustees on closure of the defined benefit section of the IC Plan, and the provisions of the facility state that while in place,  
it cannot reasonably be refused to retiring employees.
2  The increase in the transfer value of accrued benefits for Richard Solomons arises partly from the increase in salary resulting from his appointment as Chief Executive and 
partly from a change in the transfer value basis resulting from lower gilt yields.
3 Contributions paid in 2011 by the Directors under the terms of the plans. Contributions were 5% of full pensionable salary.
4 The absolute increase in accrued pension during 2011.
5 The increase in accrued pension during 2011, excluding any increase for inflation.
6 Accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 31 December 2011.
 
Employer contributions to the IC Plan made for Tracy Robbins since she became an Executive Director in August 2011 amounted to £10,032. 
In addition, Ms Robbins received a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of £33,175.
Thomas Singer received a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of £41,979.  66	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Contributions made by and in respect of James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell to the defined contributions plans are
1
:
       James Kirk 
       Abrahamson
2
 Kinsell 
       £ £
Directors’ contributions to DCP in 2011      4,200 204,200
Directors’ contributions to 401(k) in 2011      6,100 13,700
Company contribution to DCP in 2011      4,200 99,600
Company contribution to 401(k) in 2011      6,100 6,100
Age at 31 December 2011      56 56
1 Sterling values have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62
2  James Abrahamson ceased to be a Director upon his resignation from IHG on 13 June 2011. The Company contribution to the DCP shown for Mr Abrahamson excludes  
Company contributions of £36,200 that were forfeited by Mr Abrahamson because he ceased to be a member of the DCP before these contributions vested five years  
after joining the DCP. Similarly, an amount of £14,000 of Company contributions to the DCP included in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts has been forfeited. 
Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards
Directors’ pre-tax share interests during the year were as set out below. No matching shares are provided on awards.
              Value 
   Financial            based 
   year on     ABP      on share 
   which ABP ABP  Market shares  Market  ABP  price of 
   performance awards awards  price per vested  price per Value awards Planned 1,157.0p at 
   is based held at during Award share at during Vesting share at at vesting held at vesting 31 Dec 2011 
Director for award
1
 1 Jan 2011 the year date award the year date vesting £ 31 Dec 2011 date £
Andrew Cosslett
2
 2007 71,287   25.2.08 819.6p 71,287 25.2.11 1,350.8p 962,945    
    2008 104,652   23.2.09 472.6p 104,652 1.7.11 1,300.1p 1,360,581     
    2009 –                    
    2010   51,005 21.2.11 1,417.0p 51,005 1.7.11 1,300.1p 663,116      
Total   175,939 51,005             –   –
Richard Solomons 2007 45,634   25.2.08 819.6p 45,634 25.2.11 1,350.8p 616,424      
    2008 66,549   23.2.09 472.6p         66,549 23.2.12 769,972
    2009 –                    
    2010   32,295 21.2.11 1,417.0p         32,295 21.2.14 373,653
Total   112,183 32,295             98,844   1,143,625
James Abrahamson
3
 2009 –                    
    2010   27,758 21.2.11 1,417.0p             
Total   – 27,758             –   –
Kirk Kinsell 2007 19,731   25.2.08 819.6p 19,731 25.2.11 1,350.8p 266,526      
    2008 41,427   23.2.09 472.6p         41,427 23.2.12 479,310
    2009 –                    
    2010   27,375 21.2.11 1,417.0p         27,375 21.2.14 316,729
Total   61,158 27,375             68,802   796,039
Tracy Robbins 2007 24,306   25.2.08 819.6p 24,306 25.2.11 1,350.8p 328,325      
    2008 33,132   23.2.09 472.6p         33,132 23.2.12 383,337
    2009 –                    
    2010   20,377 21.2.11 1,417.0p         20,377 21.2.14 235,762
Total   57,438 20,377             53,509   619,099
Thomas Singer 2010   –                
Total   – –             –   –
1  For financial year 2007, the award was based on Group EBIT and net annual rooms additions measures and total shares held include matching shares. For financial year 
2008, the award was based on Group EBIT, net annual rooms additions and individual performance measures. No matching shares were awarded. For financial year 2009, 
no bonus was paid. For financial year 2010, the award was based on Group EBIT and individual performance measures. No matching shares were awarded.
2  Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of financial years 2008 and 2010 were released early on 1 July 2011.
3  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of financial year 2010 have lapsed.
All Executive Directors participated in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2011 except for Thomas Singer, who did not participate 
having joined IHG in September 2011.
Remune RATion RePoRT continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE BOARD,  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Remuneration report	 67
Special share awards
Details of special share awards that were granted and vested during the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out below:
              Value 
              based 
              on share 
       Market Shares  Market    price of 
    Awards Awards  price per vested  price per Value at Awards Planned 1,157.0p at 
    held at during the Award share at during Vesting share at vesting held at vesting 31 Dec 2011 
Director  1 Jan 2011 year date award the year date vesting £ 31 Dec 2011 date £
James Abrahamson
1
  45,000   23.2.09 454.2p 45,000 16.2.11 1,373.4p 618,030      
     45,000   23.2.09 454.2p             
Total  90,000               –   –
Thomas Singer
2
    46,635 27.9.11 1,055.0p         46,635 26.9.12 539,567
Total  – 46,635             46,635   539,567
1  James Abrahamson received a special share award which was to vest over three years as part of his recruitment terms in 2009. Vesting each year was subject to continued 
service. His award of 45,000 shares due to vest on 15 February 2012 lapsed upon his resignation as a Director on 13 June 2011.
2  Thomas Singer received a special share award which vests one year from his appointment as a Director as part of his recruitment terms. Vesting is subject to continued service.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards 
The awards made in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 and the maximum pre-tax number of ordinary 
shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below. In respect of the cycle ending 31 December 2010, 
73.8% of the award vested on 16 February 2011. In respect of the cycle ending on 31 December 2011, the Company out-performed the  
DJGH index in TSR by 7.9 percentage points and achieved 2.5% per annum adjusted EPS growth. Accordingly, 73.9% of the award will  
vest on 15 February 2012.
             Maximum 
   End of year  Maximum        value 
   to which Maximum LTIP   LTIP    Maximum based on 
   performance LTIP shares  Market shares Market   LTIP share price 
   is based awards awarded  price per vested price per Value at  Awards of 1,157.0p at 
   for award held at during Award share at during share at vesting Vesting held at 31 Dec 2011 
Director (31 Dec) 
1
 1 Jan 2011 the year date award the year
2
 vesting £ date 31 Dec 2011 £
Andrew Cosslett
3
 2010 253,559   19.5.08 854.0p 187,126 1,373.4p 2,569,988 16.2.11    
    2011 272,201   3.4.09 604.0p       15.2.12 226,834 2,624,469
    2012 160,807   8.4.10 1,053.0p       13.2.13 80,403 930,263
    2013   137,438 8.4.11 1,269.0p       12.2.14 22,906 265,022
Total  686,567 137,438             330,143 3,819,754
Richard Solomons 2010 161,241   19.5.08 854.0p 118,995 1,373.4p 1,634,277 16.2.11    
    2011 173,096   3.4.09 604.0p       15.2.12 173,096 2,002,721
    2012 101,818   8.4.10 1,053.0p       13.2.13 101,818 1,178,034
    2013   87,234 8.4.11 1,269.0p       12.2.14 87,234 1,009,297
Total  436,155 87,234             362,148 4,190,052
James Abrahamson
4
 2010 164,973   23.2.09 457.0p 121,750 1,373.4p 1,672,115 16.2.11    
    2011 138,730   3.4.09 604.0p       15.2.12  
    2012 79,008   8.4.10 1,053.0p       13.2.13  
    2013   72,872 8.4.11 1,269.0p       12.2.14  
Total  382,711 72,872             – –
Kirk Kinsell 2010 84,397   19.5.08 854.0p 62,284 1,373.4p 855,408 16.2.11    
    2011 132,256   3.4.09 604.0p       15.2.12 132,256 1,530,202
    2012 75,411   8.4.10 1,053.0p       13.2.13 75,411 872,505
    2013  72,872 8.4.11 1,269.0p       12.2.14 72,872 843,129
Total  292,064 72,872             280,539 3,245,836
Tracy Robbins 2010 86,311   19.5.08 854.0p 63,697 1,373.4p 874,815 16.2.11    
    2011 92,657   3.4.09 604.0p       15.2.12 92,657 1,072,041
    2012 55,873   8.4.10 1,053.0p       13.2.13 55,873 646,451
    2013   55,248 8.4.11 1,269.0p       12.2.14 55,248 639,219
Total   234,841 55,248             203,778 2,357,711
Thomas Singer
5
 2012   69,952 27.9.11 1,055.0p       13.2.13 69,952 809,345
    2013   78,696 27.9.11 1,055.0p       12.2.14 78,696 910,513
Total     148,648             148,648 1,719,858
1  All details of performance conditions in relation to the awards made in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 are provided on page 61.
2  This award was based on performance to 31 December 2010 where the performance measure related to both the Company’s TSR relative to the index and the cumulative 
annual growth rate (CAGR) in adjusted EPS over the performance period. The Company out-performed the DJGH index in TSR by 8 percentage points and achieved 9.6% per 
annum adjusted EPS growth. Accordingly, 73.8% of the award vested on 16 February 2011.
3  Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 were pro-rated to reflect 
his contractual service during the applicable performance periods.
4  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 have lapsed.
5  Thomas Singer’s LTIP awards are pro-rated as explained on page 59.  68	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Share options
Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan. No executive share options have been 
granted since 2005.
    Ordinary shares under option 
Weighted
   Options Lapsed Exercised Share price Options average option  
   held at during  during  on date of held at price at Option 
Director 1 Jan 2011 the year the year exercise 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 price
Kirk Kinsell 77,110
1
    77,110
1
  494.17p
   32,040
2
    32,040
2
  619.83p
Total 109,150    109,150 531.06p 
Richard Solomons 230,320
1
    230,320
1
  494.17p
   100,550
2
    100,550
2
  619.83p
Total 330,870    330,870 532.36p 
1 Executive share options granted in 2004 became exercisable in April 2007 up to April 2014.
2 Executive share options granted in 2005 became exercisable in April 2008 up to April 2015. 
 
Option prices during the year ranged from 308.48p to 619.83p per IHG share. The closing market value share price on 31 December 2011 
was 1,157p and the range during the year was 955p to 1,435p per share.
No Director exercised options during the year; therefore there is no disclosable gain by Directors in aggregate for the year ended 
31 December 2011 (2010 nil).
This report was approved by the Board on 13 February 2012.
Luke Mayhew 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remune RATion RePoRT continued   Remuneration report and Group ﬁ nancial statements 69
BUSINESS REVIEW
THE BOARD, 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
In this section we present 
the statements of Directors’ 
responsibilities, the 
independent auditor’s 
report and the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements of 
the Group for 2011.
Holiday Inn Manchester, UK
  GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
 Group financial statements
 70  Statements of Directors’ responsibilities
 71  Independent auditor’s report to to t t th he he 
members
 72 Group income statement
 73  Group statement of 
comprehensive income
 74 Group statement of changes in equity
 76 Group statement of financial position
 77 Group statemen ent of cash flows
 78 Accounting p po o olic ci ies
   Notes to the e Gr Grou up p 
financial sta at ate eme en nts ts
 84 1 Exchan an nge r rat ates s
 84 2 Segm m me enta al l in info form rmat ation
 88 3  Staff ff c cos osts and nd 
Dire ec ctor rs’ emolume ent nts
8 88 4  Audi itor’s s remuneratio on n paid id 
to E Ern r st t & Young LLP P
8 8 89 5 Exc ceptio ona n l items
9 90 0 6 Fi in nance costs
9 90 0 0 7 Ta Tax x
9 91 1 8 8 Di Divi v dends s pa paid id a a and propo ose sed d
9 9 92 2 2 9 9 Ea Earn rnin ings gs p per er o ord rdin in i ary sha are
9 93 10 10 Property, plant and d d equip pment
 94 11 11  As Asse sets t sold, held f f for sale e a and 
di disc scon on nti ti tinu n n ed oper r rations
9 95 5 12 Goodw wil i l l
 96 13 Intangibl ble e assets
96 14 Investme ment in ass s sociates s 
and joint t venture e es
 97 15 Other fin nancial a assets
 98 16 Inventori r es
98 17 Trade and oth h he e er recei eiva v bl bles
 98 18 8 C C Cas a h h an n nd d d ca ca cash equ uiv ivalen nts
9 9 99 9 9 1 19 9 Tra ade de de a a and nd n oth ther e pa ayab bl les 
9 99 9 9 2 20 20 Provision ns s
 99 9 9 2 21 21 Financial al risk ma ma man na nag geme ent nt
 103 22 Loans and d d othe her r bo borr rro owin ngs
 104 23 Derivative ve e fin nan anci ial a ins st truments
 105 24 Net debt
106 25 Retireme ent nt nt b b ben en enef e e it i s
110 26 Deferred t tax ax 
 1 11 27 Share-based pa pa ay ym yments
 114 2 28 8 I I Iss ssue ued d sh sh shar ar are e e c capital 
and reserves
 1 15 5 2 29 Operating leases
 1 15 3 30 0 Ca Capital and other commitments
 1 15 3 31 Co ont ntin i gencies
 1 15 3 32 Relate ed d party disclosures
1 1 16 1 33 3 System F Fun und d
 116 3 34 P Pri rinc ncip pal operating subsidiary 
un u dertak kin ings gs 	70	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
In relation to the Group financial statements
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with 
the independent auditor’s report set out on the opposite page, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the 
Group financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements  
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements 
for each financial year which present fairly the financial position  
of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the 
Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are  
required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  state whether applicable International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the 
Group will continue in business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps 
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the 
financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure 
that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies  
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
The Annual Report and the Group financial statements comply with 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom’s 
Financial Services Authority in respect of the requirement to 
produce an annual financial report.
The Annual Report and the Group financial statements are the 
responsibility of, and have been approved by, the Directors.  
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
•  the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
as adopted by the European Union;
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company  
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
•  the Annual Report, including the Directors’ report, and the Group 
financial statements include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Richard	 Solomons	 Thomas	 Singer	
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
13 February 2012 13 February 2012
St At ement S oF DiRecto RS’ ReSpon Sibilitie S BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Statements of Directors’ responsibilities and independent auditor’s report	 71
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report for  
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going 
concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to  
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 
31 December 2011 and on the information in the Remuneration 
report that is described as having been audited.
Alison	 Duncan	 (Senior	 statutory	 auditor)	
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor 
London 
13 February 2012
We have audited the Group financial statements of InterContinental 
Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which 
comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of 
comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, 
the Group statement of financial position, the Group statement of 
cash flows, accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 34.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statements of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation  
of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial  
and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of  
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in Depen Dent AuDito R’S RepoRt t o the membe RS oF in te Rcontinent Al hotel S GRoup plc 	72	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Group income statement
	     2011   2010
   	 Before	 Exceptional	 Before Exceptional  
   	 exceptional	 items	 exceptional items  
   	 items	 (note	 5)	 Total items (note 5) Total 
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011 Note	 $m	 $m	 $m $m $m $m
Revenue 2	 1,768	 –	 1,768	 1,628 – 1,628
Cost of sales 	 (771)	 –	 (771)	 (753) – (753)
Administrative expenses 	 (350)	 (31)	 (381)	 (331) (13) (344)
Other operating income 
and expenses 	 11	 46	 57	 8 35 43
   	 658	 15	 673	 552 22 574
Depreciation and amortisation 2	 (99)	 –	 (99)	 (108) – (108)
Impairment 2	 –	 20	 20	 – (7) (7)
Operating	 profit 2	 559	 35	 594	 444 15 459
Financial income 6	 2	 –	 2	 2 – 2
Financial expenses 6	 (64)	 –	 (64)	 (64) – (64)
Profit	 before	 tax 	 497	 35	 532	 382 15 397
Tax  7	 (120)	 48	 (72)	 (98) (8) (106)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 from	
continuing	 operations 	 377	 83	 460	 284 7 291
Profit for the year from  
discontinued operations 11	 –	 –	 –	 – 2 2
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 attributable	
to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 	 377	 83	 460	 284 9 293
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share 9
Continuing operations:
 Basic 	 	 	 159.2¢	 	 101.0¢
 Diluted	 	 	 	 155.4¢	 	 98.3¢
 Adjusted	 	 130.4¢			 98.6¢  
 Adjusted diluted	 	 127.4¢			 95.9¢  
Total operations:
 Basic	 	 	 	 159.2¢	  101.7¢
 Diluted	 	 	 	 155.4¢	  99.0¢
 Adjusted	 	 130.4¢			 98.6¢  
 Adjusted diluted	 	 127.4¢			 95.9¢		
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
GRoup Fin Anci Al St At ement S BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Group statement of comprehensive income
		      2011 2010 
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011      $m $m
Profit	 for	 the	 year   	  460	 293
Other	 comprehensive	 income
Available-for-sale financial assets:
 Gains on valuation   	 	 	 	 15	 17
 Losses reclassified to income on impairment   	 	 3	 1
Cash flow hedges:
 Losses arising during the year   			 – 	 (4)
 Reclassified to financial expenses   			 4 	 6
Defined benefit pension plans:       
 Actuarial losses, net of related tax credit of $13m (2010 $7m)   	 (19)	 (38)
 Change in asset restriction on plans in surplus and liability in respect
 of funding commitments, net of related tax credit of $7m (2010 $10m)  	 	 (4)	 (38)
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations, 
including related tax charge of $3m (2010 $1m credit)	   	 (21)	 (4)
Tax related to pension contributions   			 2 	 7
Other	 comprehensive	 loss	 for	 the	 year     	 (20)	 (53)
Total	 comprehensive	 income	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 440	 240
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the parent      439 240
 Non-controlling interest      1 –
        440 240
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
 
	 Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income	 73 	74	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Group financial statements continued
Group statement of changes in equity                
     Shares  Unrealised 
   Equity Capital held by  gains and Currency  IHG share- Non- 
   share redemption employee Other losses translation Retained holders’ controlling Total 
   capital reserve share trusts reserves reserve reserve earnings equity interest equity 
   $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At	 1	 January	 2011 155	 10	 (35)	 (2,894)	 49	 211	 2,788	 284	 7	 291
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 460	 460	 –	 460
Other	 comprehensive	 income: 									
 Gains on valuation of available-
 for-sale financial assets – – – – 15 – – 15 – 15
 Losses reclassified to income 
  on impairment of available-for- 
sale financial assets – – – – 3 – – 3 – 3
 Amounts reclassified to 
 financial expenses on cash  
 flow hedges – – – – 4 – – 4 – 4
 Actuarial losses on defined 
 benefit pension plans – – – – – – (19) (19) – (19)
 Change in asset restriction 
 on pension plans in surplus  
 and liability in respect of  
 funding commitments – – – – – – (4) (4) – (4)
 Exchange differences on 
 retranslation of foreign  
 operations – – – – – (22) – (22) 1 (21)
 Tax related to pension 
 contributions –	 –	 –	 –	 – – 2 2 – 2
Total	 other	 comprehensive	 loss –	 –	 –	 –	 22	 (22)	 (21)	 (21)	 1	 (20)
Total	 comprehensive	 income	
for	 the	 year –	 –	 –	 –	 22	 (22)	 439	 439	 1	 440
Issue of ordinary shares 8 – – – – – – 8 – 8
Purchase of own shares by 
employee share trusts – – (75) – – – – (75) – (75)
Release of own shares by 
employee share trusts – – 83 – – – (80) 3 – 3
Equity-settled share-
based cost – – – – – – 29 29 – 29
Tax related to share schemes – – – – – – 7 7 – 7
Equity dividends paid – – – – – – (148) (148) – (148)
Exchange adjustments (1) – – 1 – – – – – –
At	 31	 December	 2011	 162	 10	 (27)	 (2,893)	 71	 189	 3,035	 547	 8	 555
All items above are shown net of tax. 
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements. BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Group statement of changes in equity continued
     Shares  Unrealised 
   Equity Capital held by  gains and Currency  IHG share- Non- 
   share redemption employee Other losses translation Retained holders’ controlling Total 
   capital reserve share trusts reserves reserve reserve earnings equity interest equity 
   $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At	 1	 January	 2010 142	 11	 (4)	 (2,900)	 29	 215	 2,656	 149	 7	 156
Profit	 for	 the	 year –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 293	 293	 –	 293
Other	 comprehensive	 income:          
 Gains on valuation of available-
 for-sale financial assets – – – – 17 – – 17 – 17
 Losses reclassified to income 
  on impairment of available-for- 
sale financial assets – – – – 1 – – 1 – 1
 Losses on cash flow hedges – – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
 Amounts reclassified to 
 financial expenses on cash  
 flow hedges – – – – 6 – – 6 – 6
 Actuarial losses on defined 
 benefit pension plans – – – – – – (38) (38) – (38)
 Change in asset restriction 
 on pension plans in surplus  
 and liability in respect of  
 funding commitments – – – – – – (38) (38) – (38)
 Exchange differences on 
 retranslation of foreign  
 operations – – – – – (4) – (4) – (4)
 Tax related to pension 
 contributions – – – – – – 7 7 – 7
Total	 other	 comprehensive	 loss –	 –	 –	 –	 20	 (4)	 (69)	 (53)	 –	 (53)
Total	 comprehensive	 income	
for	 the	 year –	 –	 –	 –	 20	 (4)	 224	 240	 –	 240
Issue of ordinary shares 19 – – – – – – 19 – 19
Purchase of own shares by 
employee share trusts – – (53) – – – – (53) – (53)
Release of own shares by 
employee share trusts – – 21 – – – (26) (5) – (5)
Equity-settled share-
based cost – – – – – – 33 33 – 33
Tax related to share schemes – – – – – – 22 22 – 22
Equity dividends paid – – – – – – (121) (121) – (121)
Exchange adjustments (6) (1) 1 6 – – – – – –
At	 31	 December	 2010	 155	 10	 (35)	 (2,894)	 49	 211	 2,788	 284	 7	 291
All items above are shown net of tax.
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
	 Group statement of changes in equity	 75 	76	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Group financial statements continued
Group statement of financial position
		      2011 2010 
31	 December	 2011     Note $m $m
ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment     10	 1,362	 1,690
Goodwill     12	 92	 92
Intangible assets     13	 308	 266
Investment in associates and joint ventures     14	 87	 43
Retirement benefit assets     25	 21	 5
Other financial assets     15	 156	 135
Non-current tax receivable     	 41	 –
Deferred tax assets     26	 106	 79
Total	 non-current	 assets     	 2,173	 2,310
Inventories     16	 4	 4
Trade and other receivables     17	 369	 371
Current tax receivable     	 20	 13
Derivative financial instruments     23 3 –
Cash and cash equivalents     18	 182	 78
Total	 current	 assets     	 578	 466
Non-current assets classified as held for sale     11	 217 –
Total	 assets     2	 2,968	 2,776
LIABILITIES
Loans and other borrowings     22	 (21)	 (18)
Derivative financial instruments     23	 –	 (6)
Trade and other payables     19	 (707)	 (722)
Provisions     20	 (12)	 (8)
Current tax payable      (120)	 (167)
Total	 current	 liabilities      (860)	 (921)
Loans and other borrowings     22 (670)	 (776)
Derivative financial instruments     23 (39)	 (38)
Retirement benefit obligations     25 (188)	 (200)
Trade and other payables     19 (497)	 (464)
Provisions     20 (2)	 (2)
Deferred tax liabilities     26 (97)	 (84)
Total	 non-current	 liabilities   	 	 	 (1,493)	 (1,564)
Liabilities classified as held for sale     11 (60) –
Total	 liabilities     2 (2,413)	 (2,485)
Net	 assets      555	 291
EQUITY
Equity share capital     28	 162	 155
Capital redemption reserve      10	 10
Shares held by employee share trusts      (27)	 (35)
Other reserves      (2,893)	 (2,894)
Unrealised gains and losses reserve      71	 49
Currency translation reserve      189	 211
Retained earnings      3,035	 2,788
IHG	 shareholders’	 equity      547	 284
Non-controlling interest      8	 7
Total	 equity      555	 291
Signed on behalf of the Board
Thomas	 Singer	
13 February 2012
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements. BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Group statement of financial position and Group statement of cash flows	 77
Group statement of cash flows
		      2011 2010 
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011      $m $m
Profit	 for	 the	 year   	 	 	 460	 293
Adjustments for:
 Net financial expenses   	 	 	 62	 62
 Income tax charge   	 	 	 72	 106
 Depreciation and amortisation   	 	 	 99	 108
 Impairment   	 	 	 (20)	 7
 Other exceptional operating items   	 	 	 (15)	 (22)
 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations  			 – 	 (2)
 Equity-settled share-based cost, net of payments     25	 26
 Other items   			 – 	 1
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital   	 	 683	 579
Increase in trade and other receivables   	 	 	 (11)	 (35)
Net change in loyalty programme liability and System Fund surplus    66	 10
(Decrease)/increase in other trade and other payables     (20)	 131
Utilisation of provisions      (19)	 (54)
Retirement benefit contributions, net of cost    	 	 (44)	 (27)
Cash flows relating to exceptional operating items     (32)	 (21)
Cash	 flow	 from	 operations   	 	 	 623	 583
Interest paid   	 	 	 (56)	 (59)
Interest received      1	 2
Tax paid on operating activities   	 	 	 (89)	 (64)
Net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities   	 	 	 479	 462
Cash	 flow	 from	 investing	 activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment      (55)	 (62)
Purchases of intangible assets   	 	 	 (48)	 (29)
Investment in other financial assets      (50)	 (4)
Investment in associates and joint ventures      (41)	 –
Disposal of assets, net of costs       142	 107
Proceeds from other financial assets      15	 28
Tax paid on disposals   	 	 	 (1)	 (4)
Net	 cash	 from	 investing	 activities   	 	 	 (38)	 36
Cash	 flow	 from	 financing	 activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital   			 8 	 19
Purchase of own shares by employee share trusts     (75)	 (53)
Dividends paid to shareholders   	 	 	 (148)	 (121)
Decrease in borrowings   	 	 	 (119)	 (292)
Net	 cash	 from	 financing	 activities   	 	 	 (334)	 (447)
Net	 movement	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 in	 the	 year     107	 51
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year    	 78	 40
Exchange rate effects   	 	 	 (3)	 (13)
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 end	 of	 the	 year     182	 78
Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements. 	78	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
General information
The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels 
Group PLC (the Group or IHG) for the year ended 31 December 2011 
were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the 
Directors on 13 February 2012. InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
(the Company) is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in 
England and Wales.
Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis	 of	 preparation
The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Changes	 in	 accounting	 policies
With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group has implemented 
the following new accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations. None of these have had a material impact on the 
Group’s financial performance or position during the year and there 
has been no requirement to restate prior year comparatives.
•  IAS 1 (Amendment) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
clarifies that the analysis of each component of other 
comprehensive income may be presented either in the statement 
of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements. 
The Group provides this analysis in the statement of changes  
in equity.
•  IAS 24 (Amendment) ‘Related Party Transactions’ clarifies  
the identification of related party relationships, particularly  
in relation to significant influence and joint control.
•  IAS 27 (Amendment) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements’ removes the requirement to restate comparatives  
in a period when control or significant influence is lost and the 
remaining investment is accounted for under IAS 39.
•  IFRS 3 (Amendment) ‘Business Combinations’ limits the scope  
of the measurement options available for non-controlling  
interest (NCI). 
•  IFRS 7 (Amendment) ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ 
amends credit risk disclosures for financial assets and reduces 
the volume of disclosures around collateral held.
•  IFRIC 13 (Amendment) ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ clarifies 
that when measuring the fair value of award credits, discounts 
and incentives offered to customers outside of the loyalty 
programme must be taken into account.
•  IFRIC 14 (Amendment) ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding 
Requirement’ permits a pension asset to be recognised when an 
entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes  
an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements. 
Segmental	 information
As explained in note 2, an internal reorganisation during the  
year has resulted in a change to the Group’s reportable segments. 
Comparatives have been restated to show the segmental 
information on a consistent basis.
Presentational	 currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions  
of US dollars following a management decision to change the 
reporting currency from sterling during 2008. The change was 
made to reflect the profile of the Group’s revenue and operating 
profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollar-
linked currencies. 
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 
on transition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the  
basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date. 
Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares 
held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at  
the rates of exchange on the last day of the period; the resultant 
exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling 
since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United 
Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose 
primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling 
denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
Basis	 of	 consolidation
The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements  
of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.  
All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are 
consolidated for the period during which they were under the 
Group’s control.
Foreign	 currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional 
currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the 
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at 
the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the period. 
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised 
in the income statement except on foreign currency borrowings 
that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation. 
These are taken directly to the currency translation reserve until 
the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recycled 
against the gain or loss on disposal.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, 
are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange 
ruling on the last day of the period. The revenues and expenses of 
foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates  
of exchange for the period. The exchange differences arising on  
the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation 
reserve. On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount 
recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that 
particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain or loss  
on disposal.
Accountin G policie S BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 Accounting policies	 79
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation 
and any impairment. 
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Land is not depreciated. All other property, plant and equipment  
are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful  
lives, namely:
•  buildings – lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease; and
•  fixtures,	 fittings	 and	 equipment – three to 25 years.
All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis. Residual value 
is re-assessed annually.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Assets that do not generate independent 
cash flows are combined into cash-generating units. If carrying 
values exceed their estimated recoverable amount, the assets  
or cash-generating units are written down to the recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs 
to sell and value in use. Value in use is assessed based on estimated 
future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment 
losses, and any subsequent reversals, are recognised in the  
income statement.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of 
property, plant and equipment which are included in deemed cost as 
permitted by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards’.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of 
acquisition of the Group’s share of identifiable assets, liabilities  
and contingent liabilities. With effect from 1 January 2010, 
transaction costs are expensed and therefore not included in  
the cost of acquisition. Following initial recognition, goodwill is 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing 
carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable 
amounts. Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
Intangible	 assets
Software	
Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are 
capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring  
to use the specific software. Costs are amortised over estimated 
useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast 
revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, at which 
time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
Management	 contracts	
When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or 
management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as  
part of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of 
the contract entered into. The value of management contracts is 
amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to  
50 years on a straight-line basis.
Other	 intangible	 assets	
Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts  
and franchise agreements are capitalised and normally amortised 
over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a  
straight-line basis.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  
not be recoverable.
Borrowing	 costs
Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of 
property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for 
their intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset cost. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred. Borrowing 
costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in 
connection with the borrowing of funds. All borrowing costs relating 
to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 were expensed.
Associates	 and	 joint	 ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to 
exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation 
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more 
venturers exercise joint control over the entity and unanimous 
agreement is required to make strategic financial and operating 
policy decisions.
Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for  
using the equity method unless the associate or jointly controlled 
entity is classified as held for sale. Under the equity method,  
the Group’s investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Group’s 
share of post-acquisition profits and losses. When the Group’s 
share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, 
the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of 
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group 
has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments  
on behalf of an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Financial	 assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two 
following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale 
financial assets. Management determines the classification of 
financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently 
held at amortised cost (loans and receivables) or fair value 
(available-for-sale financial assets). Interest on loans and 
receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method 
and is recognised in the income statement as interest income. 
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are 
recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses 
reserve. On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments 
recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement. 
Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised 
in the income statement as other operating income and expenses. 	80	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end 
date. In the case of an equity investment classified as available-for-
sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is 
evidence that the asset is impaired. If an available-for-sale financial 
asset is impaired, the difference between original cost and fair 
value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the 
extent of any cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess 
charged directly to the income statement. Subsequent impairment 
reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are 
recorded in equity.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Trade	 receivables
Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less 
provision for impairment. It is the Group’s policy to provide for 100% 
of the previous month’s aged receivables balances which are more 
than 180 days past due. Adjustments to the policy may be made  
due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no 
longer considered probable. The carrying amount of the receivable 
is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements 
in the provision are recognised in the income statement within  
cost of sales. When a previously provided trade receivable is 
uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents
Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits. 
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an 
original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown 
net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Assets	 held	 for	 sale
Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held 
for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale  
is highly probable. 
Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying 
amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment 
classified as held for sale.
Financial	 liabilities
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or cancelled.
Trade	 payables
Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value.
Bank	 and	 other	 borrowings
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value 
of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction 
costs. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Finance 
charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or 
premium on issue, are charged to the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date 
is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are 
drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 and	 hedging
Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured 
at fair value. The method of recognising the remeasurement 
depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow 
hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the 
unrealised gains and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges 
are effective. When the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative 
gains and losses on the related hedging instrument are reclassified 
to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net 
investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income 
and the currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges 
are effective. The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity  
until a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified 
to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not been 
designated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective portion 
of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of  
any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the 
hedge relationship. 
Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps 
is recorded in financial income or expenses on a net basis over the 
term of the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the 
hedging relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
Self	 insurance
Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected 
settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims. 
Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends  
and actuarial data.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be 
made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.  
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision  
is discounted.
An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable 
costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it.
In respect of litigation, provision is made when management 
consider it probable that payment may occur even though the 
defence of the related claim may still be ongoing through the  
court process.
Taxes
Current	 tax	
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from 
or paid to the tax authorities including interest. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted  
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Accounting policies continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Deferred	 tax	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect  
of temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value 
of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, 
unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where  
the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into 
replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and 
other short-term temporary differences. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded 
as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be 
realised. The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed 
at the end of each reporting period.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based  
on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the 
reporting period.
Retirement	 benefits
Defined	 contribution	 plans	
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
income statement as they fall due.
Defined	 benefit	 plans	
Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are 
measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit 
method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the current 
rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent 
currency and term to the plan liabilities. The difference between  
the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is the 
amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial 
position as an asset or liability. An asset is recognised when the 
employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some 
point during the life of the plan or on its wind-up. If a refund would 
be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, 
the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax. A liability is also 
recorded for any such tax that would be payable in respect of 
funding commitments based on the accounting assumption that  
the related payments increase the asset.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for  
the year is charged to the income statement. The cost of making 
improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase  
in benefits vests. To the extent that improvements in benefits vest 
immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
Curtailment gains arising from the cessation of future benefit 
accrual are recognised in the period in which the defined benefit 
plan is amended.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between 
the expected return and the actual return on plan assets; 
differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan 
liabilities and actual experience during the year; or changes in the 
actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities. 
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised  
in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and 
are updated for material transactions and other material changes 
in circumstances (including changes in market prices and interest 
rates) up to the end of the reporting period. 
Revenue	 recognition
Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services 
where these activities give rise to economic benefits received and 
receivable by the Group on its own account and result in increases 
in equity.
Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees; 
management fees; owned and leased properties and other 
revenues which are ancillary to the Group’s operations, including 
technology fee income. 
Generally, revenue represents sales (excluding VAT and similar 
taxes) of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the 
normal course of business and recognised when services have 
been rendered. The following is a description of the composition  
of revenues of the Group.
Franchise	 fees – received in connection with the license of the 
Group’s brand names, usually under long-term contracts with  
the hotel owner. The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a 
percentage of rooms revenue. Revenue is recognised when earned 
and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
Management	 fees – earned from hotels managed by the Group, 
usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner. 
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a 
percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is 
generally based on the hotel’s profitability or cash flows. Revenue  
is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the 
terms of the contract. 
Owned	 and	 leased – primarily derived from hotel operations, 
including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from 
owned and leased hotels operated under the Group’s brand names. 
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and 
beverages are sold.
Share-based	 payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to fair value at the date at which the right to the shares 
is granted. Fair value is determined by an external valuer using 
option pricing models. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together  
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which 
any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the 
date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the 
award (vesting date).
The income statement charge for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and 
end of that period. No expense is recognised for awards that do not 
ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon 
a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition 
is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service 
conditions are satisfied. 
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of 
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ in respect of equity-settled awards 
and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 
7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
	 Accounting policies	 81 	82	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on  
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of 
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with  
a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the 
leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction 
of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so 
as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance  
of the liability. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated 
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the 
lease term.
Disposal	 of	 non-current	 assets
The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain  
or loss on disposal on completion of the sales process.  
In determining whether the gain or loss should be recorded,  
the Group considers whether it:
•  has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree 
associated with asset ownership;
•  has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated  
with asset ownership; and
• can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
Discontinued	 operations
Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels or operations 
sold or those classified as held for sale when the results relate to 
a separate line of business, geographical area of operations, or 
where there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line  
of business or geographical area of operations.
Exceptional	 items
The Group discloses certain financial information both including 
and excluding exceptional items. The presentation of information 
excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of the 
underlying trading performance of the Group and provides 
consistency with the Group’s internal management reporting. 
Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or 
nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to 
assess underlying trends in financial performance. Exceptional 
items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses  
on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, 
restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
Use	 of	 accounting	 estimates	 and	 judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management  
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting 
period. Actual results may differ from these estimates under 
different assumptions and conditions.
The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are:
Trade	 receivables – a provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors 
considered relevant by management.
Impairment	 – the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired 
on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of 
impairment. Other non-current assets, including property, plant 
and equipment, are tested for impairment if there are indicators  
of impairment. Impairment testing requires an estimate of future 
cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate and, in the 
case of hotels, an assessment of recoverable amount based on 
comparable market transactions.
System	 Fund – in addition to management or franchise fees, hotels 
within the IHG system pay cash assessments and contributions 
which are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund 
(the Fund). The Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of 
Priority Club Rewards points. IHG exerts significant influence over 
the operation of the Fund, however the Fund is managed for the 
benefit of hotels in the system with the objective of driving revenues 
for the hotels. The Fund is used to pay for marketing, the Priority 
Club Rewards loyalty programme and the global reservation 
system. The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any 
short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group statement 
of financial position within working capital.
As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does  
not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition 
criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and 
therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included  
in the Group income statement.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the 
appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position  
as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest 
with the Group. These assets and liabilities include the Priority Club 
Rewards liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any 
receivables and payables related to the Fund.
The cash flows relating to the Fund are reported within ‘cash flow 
from operations’ in the Group statement of cash flows due to the 
close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading 
operations of the Group.
Further information on the Fund is included in note 33.
Loyalty	 programme – the hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club 
Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel 
assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel 
and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other 
benefits. The future redemption liability is included in trade and 
other payables and is estimated using eventual redemption rates 
determined by actuarial methods and points values. Actuarial gains 
and losses on the future redemption liability are borne by the 
System Fund and any resulting changes in the liability would 
correspondingly adjust the amount of short-term timing differences 
held in the Group statement of financial position.
Accounting policies continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Retirement	 and	 other	 post-employment	 benefits – the cost  
of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment 
benefits is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial 
valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, 
expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, 
mortality rates and future pension increases.
Tax – provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the 
interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law  
and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals. In addition, 
deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax attributes to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which they can be utilised. Judgement is required as to the amount 
that can be recognised based on the likely amount and timing of 
future taxable profits, taking into account expected tax planning. 
Deferred tax balances are dependent on management’s 
expectations regarding the manner and timing of recovery of  
the related assets.
Other – the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the 
valuation of franchise and management agreements acquired  
on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified as 
available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims 
and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
New	 standards	 issued	 but	 not	 effective
The following accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations with an effective date after the date of these 
financial statements have not been adopted early by the Group  
and will be adopted in accordance with the effective date. Unless 
otherwise indicated, the Directors do not anticipate that the 
adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations  
will have a material impact on the Group’s reported income or  
net assets in the period of adoption.
•  IFRS 7 (Amendment) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, which 
is effective from 1 July 2011, requires additional disclosures about 
financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised 
and about continuing involvement in derecognised assets.
•  IAS 12 (Amendment) ‘Income Taxes’, which is effective from 
1 January 2012, introduces a rebuttable presumption that 
deferred tax on investment property measured at fair value 
should be determined on the basis that its carrying amount  
will be recovered through sale. The amendment also introduces 
the requirement that deferred tax on non-depreciable assets 
measured using the revaluation model in IAS 16 will always be 
measured on a sale basis of the asset. 
•  IAS 1 (Amendment) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’,  
which is effective from 1 July 2012, changes the grouping of items 
presented in other comprehensive income (OCI) so that items 
which may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future are 
presented separately from items that will never be reclassified. 
•  IAS 19 (Revised) ‘Employee Benefits’, which is effective from 
1 January 2013, introduces numerous changes including the 
removal of the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected 
returns on plan assets. The Group currently recognises all 
actuarial gains and losses in OCI, therefore the removal of  
the corridor mechanism will have no impact on financial 
performance or position. The Group is currently assessing the 
impact of the other amendments although these are expected  
to result in a higher income statement charge. Comparatives  
will be restated on a consistent basis on adoption.
•  IAS 28 (Amendment) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures’, which is effective from 1 January 2013, has been 
renamed as a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12  
(see below) and describes the application of the equity method  
to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates. 
•  IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, which is effective 
from 1 January 2013, introduces a single control model for all 
entities, including special purpose entities, which will require 
significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled 
and therefore consolidated in the Group financial statements.  
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard 
will have on the financial statements, if any.
•  IFRS 11 ‘ Joint Arrangements’, which is effective from 1 January 
2013, eliminates the option to account for jointly controlled 
entities (JCEs) using proportionate consolidation. The Group 
currently accounts for its JCEs using the equity method which  
is the requirement of IFRS 11.
•  IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities’, which is 
effective from 1 January 2013, incorporates all of the disclosures 
required in respect of an entity’s interests in subsidiaries,  
joint arrangements, associates and structured entities. The 
requirements are extensive and likely to result in new disclosures 
in the Group financial statements. 
•  IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’, which is effective from 
1 January 2013, establishes a single source of guidance under 
IFRS for all fair value measurements. 
•  IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement’, 
which is effective from 1 January 2015, introduces new 
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets  
and for measuring financial liabilities at fair value through  
profit or loss.
Note: the effective dates are in respect of accounting periods 
beginning on or after the date shown and so will be effective for  
the Group from 1 January 2013, other than amendments to IFRS 7 
and IAS 12 which will be effective for the Group from 1 January 2012 
and IFRS 9 which will be effective for the Group from 1 January 2015.
	 Accounting policies	 83 	84	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
		  Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Franchised  502 86 19 2 – 609
Managed  124 118 151 77 – 470
Owned and leased  204 201 46 126 – 577
Central  – – – – 112 112
Total	 revenue*	 830	 405	 216	 205	 112	 1,768
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
    $m $m $m $m $m $m
Segmental	 result
Franchised  431 65 12 3 – 511
Managed  52 26 87 43 – 208
Owned and leased  17 49 5 37 – 108
Regional and central  (49) (36) (20) (16) (147) (268)
Reportable segments’ operating profit  451 104 84 67 (147) 559
Exceptional operating items (note 5)  13 (39) 26 – 35 35
Operating	 profit*	 464	 65	 110	 67	 (112)	 594
         Group* 
         $m
Reportable segments’ operating profit        559
Exceptional operating items  					 35
Operating	 profit	 					 5 94
Net finance costs  					 (62)
Profit before tax  					 532
Tax        (72)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 					 4 60
* Relates to continuing operations.
1. Exchange rates
The results of operations have been translated into US dollars  
at the average rates of exchange for the year. In the case of sterling, 
the translation rate is $1=£0.62 (2010 $1=£0.65). In the case of the 
euro, the translation rate is $1=€0.72 (2010 $1=€0.76).
Assets and liabilities have been translated into US dollars at the 
rates of exchange on the last day of the year. In the case of sterling, 
the translation rate is $1=£0.65 (2010 $1=£0.64). In the case of the 
euro, the translation rate is $1=€0.77 (2010 $1=€0.75). 
2. Segmental information
The management of the Group’s operations, excluding Central 
functions, is organised within four geographical regions:
Americas;
Europe;
Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA); and 
Greater China.
These, together with Central functions, comprise the Group’s  
five reportable segments. No operating segments have been 
aggregated to form these reportable segments.
During the year, an internal reorganisation resulted in a change  
to the Group’s reportable segments. Previously there were three 
geographical regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); and Asia Pacific (comprising the two operating segments 
that existed at that time, Greater China and Asia Australasia).  
The Middle East and Africa region has been combined with the 
former Asia Australasia operating segment to form a single new 
operating segment, AMEA. The reorganisation was undertaken to 
better align similar businesses and to allow greater focus on 
Europe as a stand-alone region. Comparatives have been restated 
to show segmental information on a consistent basis. 
Central functions include costs of global functions, including 
technology, sales and marketing, finance, human resources and 
corporate services; revenue arises principally from technology fee 
income. Central liabilities include the loyalty programme liability 
and the cumulative short-term System Fund surplus.
Each of the geographical regions derives its revenues from either 
franchising, managing or owning hotels and additional segmental 
disclosures are provided accordingly.
Management monitors the operating results of the geographical 
regions and Central functions separately for the purpose of making 
decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. 
Segmental performance is evaluated based on operating profit or 
loss and is measured consistently with operating profit or loss in 
the consolidated financial statements, excluding exceptional items. 
Group financing and income taxes are managed on a group basis 
and are not allocated to reportable segments.
note S to the G Roup Fin Anci Al St At ement S BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
2. Segmental information continued
		  Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
31	 December	 2011  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Assets	 and	 liabilities
Segment assets  908 816 276 388 228 2,616
Unallocated assets:
 Non-current tax receivable 						 41
 Deferred tax assets 						 106
 Current tax receivable 						 20
 Derivative financial instruments 						 3
 Cash and cash equivalents 						 182
Total	 assets	 						 2 ,968
Segment liabilities  (487) (247) (53) (54) (625) (1,466)
Unallocated liabilities:
 Current tax payable 						 (120)
 Deferred tax liabilities 						 (97)
 Loans and other borrowings 	 					 (691)
 Derivative financial instruments 						 (39)
Total	 liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,413)
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Other	 segmental	 information
Capital expenditure (see below) 	 84 15 14 8 72 193
Non-cash items:
 Depreciation and amortisation* 	 23	 24 16 16 20 99
 Impairment losses  – 2 3 – – 5
 Reversal of previously recorded impairment 	 (25) – – – – (25)
 Share-based payments cost 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 25	 25
 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 	 –	 –	 (1)	 –	 –	 (1)
* Included in the $99m of depreciation and amortisation is $30m relating to administrative expenses and $69m relating to cost of sales.
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Reconciliation	 of	 capital	 expenditure  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Capital	 expenditure	 per	 management	 reporting	 84 15 14 8 72 193
Management contract acquired on disposal  2 – – – – 2
Timing differences  2 – – 2 – 4
Capital	 expenditure	 per	 the	 financial	 statements	 88 15 14 10 72 199
Comprising additions to:
 Property, plant and equipment 	 6 12 2 10 26 56
 Intangible assets 	 30 3 – – 46 79
 Investments in associates and joint ventures  31 – 11 – – 42
 Other financial assets  21 – 1 – – 22
			 	 88 15 14 10 72 199
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 85 	86	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
notes to the Group financial statements continued
2. Segmental information continued
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Year ended 31 December 2010  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Franchised  465 76 15 2 – 558
Managed  119 70 155 60 – 404
Owned and leased  223 180 43 116 – 562
Central  – – – – 104 104
Total	 revenue*	 	 807	 326	 213	 178	 104	 1,628
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
    $m $m $m $m $m $m
Segmental	 result
Franchised  392 55 8 3 – 458
Managed  21 17 88 30 – 156
Owned and leased  13 38 4 33 – 88
Regional and central  (57) (32) (18) (12) (139) (258)
Reportable segments’ operating profit  369 78 82 54 (139) 444
Exceptional operating items (note 5)  14 (5) 6 – – 15
Operating	 profit*	 	 383	 73	 88	 54	 (139)	 459
       Continuing Discontinued Group 
       $m $m $m
Reportable segments’ operating profit      444 – 444
Exceptional operating items     15 – 15
Operating	 profit	 	 	 	 	 459	 –	 459
Net finance costs     (62) – (62)
Profit before tax     397 – 397
Tax      (106) – (106)
Profit after tax     291 – 291
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax     – 2 2
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 291	 2	 293
* Relates to continuing operations.
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
31 December 2010  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Assets	 and	 liabilities
Segment assets  891 826 310 385 194 2,606
Unallocated assets:
 Deferred tax assets       79
 Current tax receivable       13
 Cash and cash equivalents       78
Total	 assets	 						 2 ,776
Segment liabilities  (452) (280) (58) (38) (568) (1,396)
Unallocated liabilities:
 Current tax payable       (167)
 Deferred tax liabilities       (84)
 Loans and other borrowings       (794)
 Derivative financial instruments       (44)
Total	 liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,485) BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
2. Segmental information continued
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Year ended 31 December 2010  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Other	 segmental	 information
Capital expenditure (see below)  37 8 6 6 40 97
Non-cash items:
 Depreciation and amortisation*  33 24 15 16 20 108
 Impairment losses  7 – – – – 7
 Share-based payments cost  – – – – 32 32
* Included in the $108m of depreciation and amortisation is $31m relating to administrative expenses and $77m relating to cost of sales.
    Americas Europe AMEA Greater China Central Group 
Reconciliation	 of	 capital	 expenditure  $m $m $m $m $m $m
Capital	 expenditure	 per	 management	 reporting	 	 37	 8	 6	 6	 40	 97
Management contract acquired on disposal  5 – – – – 5
Timing differences  – (1) – (4) – (5)
Capital	 expenditure	 per	 the	 financial	 statements	 	 42	 7	 6	 2	 40	 97
Comprising additions to:
 Property, plant and equipment  27 6 1 2 23 59
 Intangible assets  11 1 5 – 17 34
 Other financial assets  4 – – – – 4
	 	 	 	 42	 7	 6	 2	 40	 97
       	 Year 	 ended Year ended 
       	 31 	 December 31 December 
       	 2011 2010 
Geographical	 information     	 $m $m
Revenue
United Kingdom   	 	 	 139	 130
United States   	 	 	 740	 706
People’s Republic of China (including Hong Kong)  	 	 	 210	 182
Rest of World   	 	 	 679	 610
		     	 1,768	 1,628
For the purposes of the above table, hotel revenue is determined according to the location of the hotel and other revenue is attributed to the 
country of origin. In addition to the United Kingdom, revenue relating to an individual country is separately disclosed when it represents 10% 
or more of total revenue.
	 	 	 					 31	 December	 31 December	
	 	 	 					 2 011 2010 
        $m $m
Non-current	 assets
United Kingdom     	 361	 366
United States     	 559	 726
France     	 328	 344
People’s Republic of China (including Hong Kong)    	 331	 335
Rest of World     	 270	 320
		     	 1,849	 2,091
For the purposes of the above table, non-current assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and 
investments in associates and joint ventures. Non-current assets relating to an individual country are separately disclosed when they 
represent 10% or more of total non-current assets, as defined above.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 87 	88	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
3. Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Staff
Costs:
 Wages and salaries   	 	 	 550	 535
 Social security costs   	 	 	 43	 34
 Pension and other post-retirement benefits:
  Defined benefit plans* (note 25)   			 8 	 9
  Defined contribution plans   	 	 	 22	 19
     	 	 	 623	 597
* Before exceptional items. 
        2011 2010
Average number of employees, including part-time employees:
 Americas   	 	 	 2,895	 3,309
 Europe      1,574 1,206
 Asia, Middle East and Africa      1,195 1,142
 Greater China      1,000 964
 Central     	 1,292 1,237
    	 	 	 	 7,956	 7,858
The costs of the above employees are borne by IHG. In addition, the Group employs 4,462 (2010 4,489) people who work in managed hotels  
or directly on behalf of the System Fund and whose costs of $307m (2010 $282m) are borne by those hotels or by the Fund.
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Directors’	 emoluments
Base salaries, fees, performance payments and benefits   	 	 8.3	 6.5
More detailed information on the emoluments, pensions, option holdings and shareholdings for each Director is shown in the Remuneration 
report on pages 54 to 68. 
4. Auditor’s remuneration paid to Ernst & Young LLP
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Group audit fees   	 	 1.9	 1.9
Audit fees in respect of subsidiaries   	 	 	 1.5	 1.6
Tax fees   	 	 	 0.7	 2.1
Interim review fees     	 0.3	 0.3
Other services pursuant to legislation     	 0.4	 0.3
Other     	 1.4	 1.7
    	 	 	 	 6.2	 7.9
Audit fees in respect of the pension scheme were not material.
The Audit Committee has a process to ensure that any non-audit services do not compromise the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor and that relevant UK and US professional and regulatory requirements are met. A number of criteria are applied when 
deciding whether pre-approval for such services should be given. These include the nature of the service, the level of fees and the 
practicality of appointing an alternative provider, having regard to the skills and experience required to supply the service effectively. 
Cumulative fees for audit and non-audit services are presented to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis for review. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for monitoring adherence to the pre-approval policy.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
5. Exceptional items
        2011 2010 
       Note $m $m
Continuing	 operations
Exceptional	 operating	 items
 Administrative expenses:
  Litigation provision     a	 (22) –
  Resolution of commercial dispute     b	 (37) –
  Pension curtailment gain     c	 28 –
  Holiday Inn brand relaunch      d	– (9)
  Reorganisation and related costs      e	 –	 (4)
       	 (31)	 (13)
 Other operating income and expenses:
  Gain on disposal of hotels* (note 11)    	 	 37	 27
  VAT refund     f	9 –
  Gain on sale of other financial assets     g	 –	 8
       	 46	 35
 Impairment:
  Impairment charges:
   Property, plant and equipment (note 10)   	 	 (2)	 (6)
			 Other financial assets (note 15)	 					 ( 3)	 (1)
  Reversals of previously recorded impairment:    	 
   Property, plant and equipment (note 10)   	 	 23	 –
			 Associates (note 14)	 					 2 	 –
       	 20	 (7)
      	 	 35	 15
Tax
 Tax on exceptional operating items     	 5	 (8)
 Exceptional tax credit      h	 43	 –
      	 	 48	 (8)
Discontinued	 operations
Gain	 on	 disposal	 of	 assets	 (note	 11)
 Tax credit     i	 –	 2
* Relates to hotels classified as continuing operations.
The above items are treated as exceptional by reason of their size or nature.
a  Estimate of the amount potentially payable in respect of a prior year claim following an unfavourable court judgement in the Americas on 23 February 2011. Any final amount 
will not be known until the court process is complete.
b Relates to the settlement of a prior period commercial dispute in the Europe region.
c Arises from the closure of the UK defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual with effect from 1 July 2013.
d Related to costs incurred in support of the worldwide relaunch of the Holiday Inn brand family that was announced on 24 October 2007 and substantially completed in 2010. 
e Primarily related to the closure of certain corporate offices together with severance costs arising from a review of the Group’s cost base.
f Arises in the UK and relates to periods prior to 1996.
g Related to the gain on sale of an investment in the AMEA region.
h  Represents the release of provisions of $13m (2010 $7m) which are exceptional by reason of their nature relating to tax matters which have been settled or in respect of 
which the relevant statutory limitation period has expired, together with, in 2011, a $30m revision to the estimated tax impacts relating to an internal reorganisation carried 
out in 2010, including the recognition of additional deferred tax assets. In 2010 the tax charge of $7m relating to this reorganisation comprised the recognition of deferred tax 
assets of $24m for capital losses and other deductible amounts, offset by tax charges of $31m.
i Related to tax refunded in respect of a prior year hotel sale.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 89 	90	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
6. Finance costs
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Financial	 income
Interest income on deposits   			 1 	 2
Unwinding of discount on other financial assets  			 1 	 –
     			 2 	 2
Financial	 expenses
Interest expense on borrowings   	 	 	 42	 40
Interest rate swaps fair value transferred from equity    	4 6
Finance charge payable under finance leases    	 18	 18
     	 	 	 64	 64
Interest income and expense relate to financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, calculated using the effective interest  
rate method.
Included within interest expense is $1m (2010 $2m) payable to the Priority Club Rewards loyalty programme relating to interest on the 
accumulated balance of cash received in advance of the redemption of points awarded.
7. Tax
        2011 2010 
       Note $m $m
Income	 tax
UK corporation tax at 26.5% (2010 28.0%):
 Current period   	 	 	 30	 21
 Adjustments in respect of prior periods     	 (25)	 (29)
       	 5	 (8)
Foreign tax:     a	 
 Current period   		 	 98	 122
 Benefit of tax reliefs on which no deferred tax previously recognised   	 (16)	 (13)
 Adjustments in respect of prior periods     b	 (65)	 (23)
       	 17	 86
Total	 current	 tax   		 	 22	 78
Deferred tax:
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences   	 	 73	 56
 Changes in tax rates   	 	 (2)	 (2)
 Adjustments to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets   	 	 (12)	 (36)
 Adjustments in respect of prior periods   	 	 (9)	 8
Total	 deferred	 tax     	 50	 26
Total	 income	 tax	 charge	 for	 the	 year   		 	 72	 104
Further analysed as tax relating to:
 Profit before exceptional items     	 120	 98
 Exceptional items (note 5):
  Exceptional operating items     	 (5)	 8
  Exceptional tax credit      c	 (43)	 –
  Gain on disposal of discontinued operations    	 –	 (2)
    			 	 72	 104
The total tax charge can be further analysed as relating to:
 Continuing operations     	 72	 106
 Discontinued operations – gain on disposal of assets    	 –	 (2)
    			 	 72	 104
a Represents corporate income taxes on profit taxable in foreign jurisdictions, a significant proportion of which relates to the Group’s US subsidiaries.
b  Includes $39m (2010 $7m) of exceptional releases included at note c below together with other releases relating to tax matters which have been settled or in respect of which 
the relevant statutory limitation period has expired.
c  Represents the release of provisions of $13m (2010 $7m) which are exceptional by reason of their nature relating to tax matters which have been settled or in respect of 
which the relevant statutory limitation period has expired, together with, in 2011, a $30m revision to the estimated tax impacts relating to an internal reorganisation carried 
out in 2010, including the recognition of additional deferred tax assets. In 2010 the tax charge of $7m relating to this reorganisation comprised the recognition of deferred tax 
assets of $24m for capital losses and other deductible amounts, offset by tax charges of $31m.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
7. Tax continued
        Before 
       Total 
a
 exceptional items
b
 
      2011 2010 2011 2010 
      % % % %
Reconciliation	 of	 tax	 charge,	 including	 gain	 on	 disposal	 of	 assets
UK corporation tax at standard rate 	 	 26.5	 28.0	 26.5 28.0
Non-deductible expenditure and non-taxable income 	 	 1.9	 4.1	 2.6 4.2
Net effect of different rates of tax in overseas businesses 	 	 8.9	 9.5	 9.8 9.3
Effect of changes in tax rates 	 	 (0.5)	 (0.4)	 (0.4) (0.7)
Benefit of tax reliefs on which no deferred tax previously recognised 	 (3.0)	 (3.5)	 (3.2) (3.6)
Effect of adjustments to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets 	 (2.3)	 (9.1)	 (0.3) (2.3)
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior periods 	 	 (18.9)	 (11.2)	 (12.1) (9.1)
Other 	 	 1.0 –	 1.3 –
Exceptional items and gain on disposal of assets 	 	 (0.1)	 8.7	– –
  		 	 13.5	 26.1	 24.2 25.8
a Calculated in relation to total profits including exceptional items.
b Calculated in relation to profits excluding exceptional items.
Tax	 paid
Total net tax paid during the year of $90m (2010 $68m) comprises $89m (2010 $64m) paid in respect of operating activities and $1m  
(2010 $4m) paid in respect of investing activities.
Tax paid represents an effective rate of 17% (2010 17%) on total profits and is lower than the effective income statement tax rate of 24% 
primarily due to the impact of deferred taxes (including the realisation of assets such as tax losses), the receipt of refunds in respect of 
prior years and provisions for tax for which no payment of tax has currently been made.
Tax	 risks,	 policies	 and	 governance
Information concerning the Group’s tax governance can be found in the Taxation section of the Business Review on page 26.
8. Dividends paid and proposed
      2011 2010 
      cents	 per cents per 2011 2010 
      share share $m $m
Paid during the year:
 Final (declared for previous year) 	 	 	 35.2	 29.2 102 84
 Interim  	 	 	 16.0	 12.8	 46 37
   	 	 51.2	 42.0	 148 121
Proposed (not recognised as a liability at 31 December):
 Final 	 	 39.0	 35.2	 113 101
The final dividend of 24.7p (39.0¢ converted at the closing exchange rate on 10 February 2012) is proposed for approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) on 25 May 2012 and is payable on the shares in issue at 23 March 2012.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 91 	92	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
9. Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year available for IHG equity holders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares, excluding investment in own shares, in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by adjusting basic earnings per ordinary share to reflect the notional exercise of the 
weighted average number of dilutive ordinary share options outstanding during the year. 
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share is disclosed in order to show performance undistorted by exceptional items, to give a more 
meaningful comparison of the Group’s performance.
        2011  2010
      Continuing  Continuing  
      operations Total operations Total
Basic	 earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share
Profit available for equity holders ($m) 	 	 	 460	 460	 291 293
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 	 289	 289	 288 288
Basic earnings per ordinary share (cents) 	 	 	 159.2	 159.2	 101.0 101.7
Diluted	 earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share
Profit available for equity holders ($m) 	 	 	 460	 460	 291 293
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 	 296	 296	 296 296
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (cents) 	 	 	 155.4	 155.4	 98.3 99.0
       2011  2010 
       millions  millions
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is calculated as:
 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 	 	 	 289	 	 288
 Dilutive potential ordinary shares – employee share options 		 7 		 8
   				 2 96		 296
        2011  2010
      Continuing  Continuing  
      operations Total operations Total
Adjusted	 earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share
Profit available for equity holders ($m)  	 	 460	 460	 291 293
Adjusting items (note 5):
 Exceptional operating items ($m)  	 	 (35)	 (35)	 (15) (15)
 Tax on exceptional operating items ($m)  	 	 (5)	 (5)	 8 8
 Exceptional tax credit ($m)  	 	 (43)	 (43)	 – –
 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations ($m)	 	 	 –	 –	 – (2)
Adjusted earnings ($m)  	 	 377	 377	 284 284
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 	 289	 289	 288 288
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (cents)  	 	 130.4	 130.4	 98.6 98.6
Adjusted earnings ($m)  	 	 377	 377	 284 284
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 	 296	 296	 296 296
Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share (cents)  	 127.4	 127.4	 95.9 95.9
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
10. Property, plant and equipment
       Land and Fixtures, fittings  
       buildings and equipment Total 
       $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010     1,622 1,046 2,668
Additions     24 35 59
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale   (57) (55) (112)
Disposals     (11) (20) (31)
Exchange and other adjustments     (30) (9) (39)
At 31 December 2010     1,548 997 2,545
Additions     2 54 56
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale   (258) (98) (356)
Disposals     (44)	 (25)	 (69)
Exchange and other adjustments     (11) (11) (22)
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 1,237	 917	 2,154
Depreciation	 and	 impairment
At 1 January 2010     (212) (620) (832)
Provided     (11) (64) (75)
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale   1 29 30
Impairment charge (see below)     – (6) (6)
Disposals     8 18 26
Exchange and other adjustments     1 1 2
At 31 December 2010     (213) (642) (855)
Provided     (10)	 (56)	 (66)
Net transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale   19 71 90
Impairment charge (see below)     (2) – (2)
Impairment reversals (see below)     23	 – 23
Disposals     9 8 17
Exchange and other adjustments     – 1 1
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 (174) (618)	 (792)
Net	 book	 value
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 1,063	 299	 1,362
At 31 December 2010     1,335 355 1,690
At 1 January 2010     1,410 426 1,836
The impairment charge in 2011 arose in respect of one hotel in Europe following a re-assessment of its recoverable amount, based on fair 
value less costs to sell.
The impairment charge in 2010 arose in respect of one hotel in the Americas following a re-assessment of its recoverable amount, based 
on value in use. Estimated future cash flows were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 11.8%. 
Of the impairment reversal, $11m arose in March 2011 on the classification of a North American hotel as ‘held for sale’. The amount of the 
reversal was based on the expected net sales proceeds which were subsequently realised on the disposal of the hotel (see note 11).  
A further $12m arose in respect of another North American hotel following a re-assessment of its recoverable amount, based on value  
in use. Estimated future cash flows were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 12.6%.
All impairment charges and reversals are included within impairment on the face of the Group income statement.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2011 was $190m (2010 $183m). 
No borrowing costs were capitalised during the year (2010 $nil).
Charges over one hotel totalling $85m exist as security provided to the Group’s pension plans.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 93 	94	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
11. Assets sold, held for sale and discontinued operations 
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group sold four hotels, three in the Americas region and one in the AMEA region. The gain on 
disposal mainly relates to the sale of the Holiday Inn Burswood in Australia. The other significant disposal was the Hotel Indigo San Diego 
which resulted in an impairment reversal (see note 10) in March 2011 on classification as ‘held for sale’.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, two hotels in the Americas were sold including the InterContinental Buckhead, Atlanta on 1 July 
2010 for a profit of $27m.
 
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Consideration
Current year disposals:
 Cash consideration, net of costs paid     	 142	 109
 Management contract value     	 2	 5
       	 144	 114
Net assets disposed of   	 	 	 (107)	 (87)
Prior year disposals:
 Tax   	 	 –	 2
Gain	 on	 disposal	 of	 assets   	 	 37	 29
Analysed as:
 Gain on disposal of hotels from continuing operations (note 5)   	 37	 27
 Gain on disposal of assets from discontinued operations (note 5)  	 	 –	 2
    	 	 	 37	 29
Net	 cash	 inflow
Current year disposals:
 Cash consideration, net of costs paid   	 	 142	 109
 Tax    	 	 (1)	 (6)
Prior year disposals:   	 	 
 Costs paid   	 	 –	 (2)
 Tax    	 	 –	 2
       	 141	 103
Assets	 held	 for	 sale
One hotel, the InterContinental New York Barclay, met the ‘held for sale’ criteria of IFRS 5 at 31 December 2011.
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Assets	 and	 liabilities	 held	 for	 sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale:
 Property, plant and equipment     	 217 –
Liabilities classified as held for sale:
 Deferred tax (note 26)     	 60 –
Discontinued	 operations
The results of discontinued operations comprise gains arising from prior year hotel disposals of $nil (2010 $2m) and do not impact on 
segmental results.
        2011 2010 
        cents	 	 cents
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share	 from	 discontinued	 operations
Basic     	 –	 0.7
Diluted     	 –	 0.7
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations were $nil (2010 $2m).
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
12. Goodwill
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Cost
At 1 January       233 223
Exchange and other adjustments   			 – 	 10
At	 31	 December	   	 	 	 233	 233
Impairment	
At	 1	 January	 and	 31	 December   	 	 	 (141)	 (141)
Net	 book	 value
At	 31	 December   	 	 	 92	 92
At 1 January    	 	 	 92	 82
Goodwill arising on business combinations that occurred before 1 January 2005 was not restated on adoption of IFRS as permitted by IFRS 1.
Impairment charges are included within impairment on the face of the Group income statement and all cumulative impairment losses 
relate to the Americas managed cash-generating unit (CGU) (see below).
Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs for impairment testing as follows:
       Cost  Net book value
      2011 2010 2011 2010 
      $m $m $m $m
Asia Australasia franchised and managed operations 	 	 92	 92	 92 92
Americas managed operations 	 	 141	 141	– –
   	 	 233	 233	 92 92
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications that an impairment may have arisen.  
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow forecasts 
derived from the most recent financial budgets and strategic plans approved by management covering a five-year period or, in the  
absence of up-to-date strategic plans, the financial budget for the next year with an extrapolation of the cash flows for the following four 
years, using growth rates based on management’s past experience and industry growth forecasts. After the five-year planning period, the 
terminal value of future cash flows is calculated based on perpetual growth rates that do not exceed the average long-term growth rates 
for the relevant markets. Pre-tax discount rates are used to discount the cash flows based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted to reflect the risks specific to the business model and territory of the CGU being tested.
Asia	 Australasia	 goodwill
At 31 December 2011, the recoverable amount of the CGU has been assessed based on the approved budget for 2012 and strategic plans 
covering a five-year period, a perpetual growth rate of 3.5% (2010 3.5%) and a discount rate of 13.9% (2010 14.4%).
Impairment was not required at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010 and management believe that the carrying value of the  
CGU would only exceed its recoverable amount in the event of highly unlikely changes in the key assumptions. 
Americas	 goodwill
Goodwill relating to the Americas managed operations was impaired in full in 2009. As goodwill impairment cannot be reversed, there is  
no sensitivity around any assumptions that could lead to further impairment adjustments. 
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 95 	96	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
13. Intangible assets
       Management Other 
      Software contracts intangibles Total 
      $m $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010    185 231 98 514
Additions    18 5 11 34
Disposals    (2) – (1) (3)
Exchange and other adjustments    2 (5) 1 (2)
At 31 December 2010    203 231 109 543
Additions    46	 2	 31 79
Disposals    – – (2) (2)
Exchange and other adjustments    3	 (2) – 1
At	 31	 December	 2011 	 	 	 252	 231	 138	 621
Amortisation	 and	 impairment
At 1 January 2010    (100) (96) (44) (240)
Provided    (15) (10) (8) (33)
Disposals    2 – 1 3
Exchange and other adjustments    (7) – – (7)
At 31 December 2010    (120) (106) (51) (277)
Provided   	 (13) (10) (10) (33)
Disposals    – – 2 2
Exchange and other adjustments   	 (5) – – (5)
At	 31	 December	 2011   	 (138)	 (116)	 (59)	 (313)
Net	 book	 value	 	 	 				
At	 31	 December	 2011   	 114	 115	 79	 308
At 31 December 2010    83 125 58 266
At 1 January 2010    85 135 54 274
Borrowing costs of $0.4m (2010 $nil) were capitalised during the year in respect of software projects.
The weighted average remaining amortisation period for management contracts is 20 years (2010 21 years).
14. Investment in associates and joint ventures
       Associates Joint ventures Total 
       $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010     50 – 50
Dividends     (1) – (1)
Exchange and other adjustments     (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2010     48 – 48
Additions   	 11 31 42
Share of profit/(loss)     2 (1) 1
Dividends   	 (1) – (1)
At	 31	 December	 2011 	 	 	 	 60	 30	 90
Impairment
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010     (5) – (5)
Impairment reversal (see below)     2 – 2
At	 31	 December	 2011    	 (3)	 –	 (3)
Net	 book	 value   				
At	 31	 December	 2011   	 	 57	 30	 87
At 31 December 2010   	 43 – 43
At 1 January 2010   	 45 – 45
The impairment reversal arose in the Americas region.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
14. Investment in associates and joint ventures continued
The following table summarises the financial information of the Group’s associates and joint ventures:
      Associates  Joint ventures  Total
    2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
    $m $m $m $m $m $m
Share	 of	 statement	 of	 financial	 position
Current assets 	9 5	3 –	 12	 5
Non-current assets 	 70 62	 27 –	 97	 62
Current liabilities 	 (7) (9)	– – (7)	 (9)
Non-current liabilities 	 (15) (15)	– –	 (15)	 (15)
Net	 assets 	 57 43	 30 –	 87	 43
Share	 of	 revenue	 and	 profit
Revenue 	 28 26	– –	 28	 26
Profit/(loss) 	2 –	 (1) –	 1	 –
Related	 party	 transactions
Revenue from related parties 	5 4	– –	 5	 4
Amounts owed by related parties 	1 1	– –	 1	 1
Loans from related parties 	 (2) –	– –	 (2)	 –
At 31 December 2011, the Group held investments in six associates (2010 five) and two jointly controlled entities (2010 nil). The most 
significant investments are a 30% associate holding in President Hotel and Tower Co Ltd, the owner of the InterContinental Hotel Bangkok 
and the Holiday Inn Bangkok, and a 49% holding in BCRE IHG 180 Orchard Holdings LLC, a joint venture established to develop and build a 
multi-use property in Manhattan, New York, including a Hotel Indigo.
15. Other financial assets
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Non-current
Equity securities available-for-sale     	 112	 87
Other     	 44	 48
       	 156 135
Available-for-sale financial assets, which are included in the Group statement of financial position at fair value, consist of equity investments in 
listed and unlisted shares. Of the total amount of equity investments at 31 December 2011, $15m (2010 $3m) were listed securities and $97m 
(2010 $84m) unlisted; $61m (2010 $41m) were denominated in US dollars, $23m (2010 $17m) in Hong Kong dollars and $28m (2010 $29m) in 
other currencies. Unlisted equity shares are mainly investments in entities that own hotels which the Group manages. The fair value of unlisted 
equity shares has been estimated using valuation guidelines issued by the British Venture Capital Association and is based on assumptions 
regarding expected future earnings. Listed equity share valuation is based on observable market prices. Dividend income from available-for-
sale equity securities of $11m (2010 $8m) is reported as other operating income and expenses in the Group income statement.
Other financial assets consist of trade deposits and restricted cash. These amounts have been designated as ‘loans and receivables’  
and are held at amortised cost. A deposit of $37m was made during the year to a hotel owner in connection with the renegotiation of  
a management contract. The deposit is non-interest-bearing and repayable at the end of the management contract, and is therefore held  
at its discounted value of $10m; the discount will unwind to the income statement within financial income over the period to repayment. 
Restricted cash of $27m (2010 $42m) relates to cash held in bank accounts which is pledged as collateral to insurance companies for  
risks retained by the Group.
The movement in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during the year is as follows:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
At 1 January      (26)	 (25)
Provided – exceptional items      	 (3)	 (1)
Reclassification     	 3	 –
Amounts written off     	 1	 –
At	 31	 December   	 	 	 (25)	 (26)
The amounts provided as exceptional items relate to available-for-sale equity investments and have arisen as a result of significant and 
prolonged declines in their fair value below cost. 
The provision is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount is possible; at that point the 
amount considered irrecoverable is either written off directly to the income statement or, if previously provided, against the financial asset 
with no impact on the income statement.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 97 	98	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
16. Inventories
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Finished goods     	2 2
Consumable stores     	2 2
       	4 4
17. Trade and other receivables
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Trade receivables     	 299	 292
Other receivables     	 28	 32
Prepayments     	 42	 47
       	 369	 371
Trade and other receivables are designated as ‘loans and receivables’ and are held at amortised cost.
Trade receivables are non-interest-bearing and are generally on payment terms of up to 30 days. The fair value of trade and other 
receivables approximates their carrying value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, at the end of the reporting period  
by geographic region is:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Americas     	 170 163
Europe      	 69 70
Asia, Middle East and Africa     	 61 59
Greater China     	 27 32
     	 	 327	 324
The ageing of trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, at the end of the reporting period is:
       2011   2010
    Gross Provision	 Net Gross Provision Net 
			 	 $m $m	 $m $m $m $m
Not past due	 	 201	 (1)	 200	 197 (3) 194
Past due 1 to 30 days	 	 73	 (2)	 71	 75 (4) 71
Past due 31 to 180 days	 	 59	 (3)	 56	 66 (9) 57
Past due more than 180 days	 	 40	 (40)	 –	 44 (42) 2
   	 373	 (46)	 327	 382 (58) 324
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables during the year is as follows:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
At 1 January   	 	 	 (58)	 (85)
Provided   	 	 	 (15)	 (27)
Amounts written back   			 7 	 7
Amounts written off   	 	 	 20	 47
At	 31	 December   	 	 (46)	 (58)
18. Cash and cash equivalents
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Cash at bank and in hand    	 	 51	 38
Short-term deposits   	 	 131	 40
     	 	 182	 78
Short-term deposits are highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less, in various currencies. 
 
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
19. Trade and other payables
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Current
Trade payables     	 126	 113
Other tax and social security payable     	 35	 35
Other payables     	 262	 226
Accruals     	 284	 348
       	 707	 722
Non-current
Other payables     	 497	 464
Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled within an average of 45 days.
Other payables include $578m (2010 $531m) relating to the future redemption liability of the Group’s loyalty programme, of which $105m 
(2010 $92m) is classified as current and $473m (2010 $439m) as non-current. 
20. Provisions
	 	 	 				 O nerous		 	
	 	 	 				 management		 	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 contracts	 Litigation	 Total	
			 	 	 	 	 $m	 $m	 $m
At 1 January 2010     65 – 65
Provided     3 – 3
Utilised   	 (58) – (58)
At 31 December 2010   	 10 – 10
Provided     1 22 23
Utilised   	 (8) (11) (19)
At	 31	 December	 2011   	 3	 11	 14
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Analysed as:	 						
 Current	 			 	 12 8
 Non-current	 			 	2 2
       	 14 10
The onerous management contracts provision relates to the unavoidable net cash outflows that are expected to be incurred under 
performance guarantees associated with certain management contracts. The non-current portion of the provision is expected to be utilised 
over the period to 2020.
The litigation provision has been charged in the income statement as an exceptional item (see note 5) and relates to an action brought 
against the Group in the Americas region. The balance of the provision is subject to ongoing litigation which is expected to be concluded  
in 2012.
21. Financial risk management
Overview
The Group’s treasury policy is to manage financial risks that arise in 
relation to underlying business needs. The activities of the treasury 
function are carried out in accordance with Board approved policies 
and are subject to regular audit. The treasury function does not 
operate as a profit centre. 
The treasury function seeks to reduce the financial risk of the 
Group and manages liquidity to meet all foreseeable cash needs. 
Treasury activities may include money market investments, spot 
and forward foreign exchange instruments, currency options, 
currency swaps, interest rate swaps and options and forward rate 
agreements. One of the primary objectives of the Group’s treasury 
risk management policy is to mitigate the adverse impact of 
movements in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. 
Market	 risk	 exposure
The US dollar is the predominant currency of the Group’s revenue 
and cash flows. Movements in foreign exchange rates can affect  
the Group’s reported profit, net assets and interest cover. To hedge 
translation exposure, wherever possible, the Group matches  
the currency of its debt (either directly or via derivatives) to the 
currency of its net assets, whilst maximising the amount of US 
dollars borrowed to reflect the predominant trading currency. 
From time to time, foreign exchange transaction exposure is 
managed by the forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies  
or the use of currency options. Most significant exposures of the 
Group are in currencies that are freely convertible.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 99 	 100	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
notes to the Group financial statements continued
A general strengthening of the US dollar (specifically a five cent  
fall in the sterling:US dollar rate) would increase the Group’s profit 
before tax by an estimated $3.3m (2010 $3.5m) and decrease net 
assets by an estimated $10.4m (2010 $5.6m). Similarly, a five cent 
fall in the euro:US dollar rate would reduce the Group’s profit 
before tax by an estimated $1.9m (2010 $1.4m) and decrease net 
assets by an estimated $10.3m (2010 $8.2m).
Interest rate exposure is managed within parameters that stipulate 
that fixed rate borrowings should normally account for no less than 
25% and no more than 75% of net borrowings for each major 
currency. This is usually achieved through the use of interest rate 
swaps. Due to relatively low interest rates and the level of the 
Group’s debt, 100% of borrowings were fixed rate debt or had been 
swapped into fixed rate borrowings at 31 December 2011.
Based on the year-end net debt position and given the underlying 
maturity profile of investments, borrowings and hedging instruments 
at that date, neither a one percentage point rise in US dollar, euro nor 
sterling interest rates would impact the annual net interest charge  
in the current or prior year.
Liquidity	 risk	 exposure
The treasury function ensures that the Group has access to 
sufficient funds to allow the implementation of the strategy set  
by the Board. At the year end, the Group had access to $1,049m of 
undrawn committed facilities. Medium and long-term borrowing 
requirements are met through the $1.07bn Syndicated Facility 
which expires in November 2016 and through the £250m 6% bonds 
that are repayable on 9 December 2016. Short-term borrowing 
requirements are met from drawings under bilateral bank facilities. 
The Syndicated Facility contains two financial covenants: interest 
cover and net debt divided by earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA). Net debt for this purpose 
is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. 
The Group is in compliance with all of the financial covenants in its 
loan documents, none of which is expected to present a material 
restriction on funding in the near future. 
At the year end, the Group had cash of $182m which is held in 
short-term deposits and cash funds which allow daily withdrawals 
of cash. Most of the Group’s funds are held in the UK or US and 
there are no material funds where repatriation is restricted as a 
result of foreign exchange regulations. 
Credit	 risk	 exposure
Credit risk on treasury transactions is minimised by operating a 
policy on the investment of surplus cash that generally restricts 
counterparties to those with an A credit rating or better or those 
providing adequate security. 
Notwithstanding that counterparties must have an A credit rating 
or better, during periods of significant financial market turmoil, 
counterparty exposure limits are significantly reduced and 
counterparty credit exposure reviews are broadened to include  
the relative placing of credit default swap pricings.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. 
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit 
terms are subject to credit verification procedures. 
In respect of credit risk arising from financial assets, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty,  
with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of  
these instruments.
Capital	 risk	 management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to 
continue as a going concern. The capital structure consists of  
net debt, issued share capital and reserves totalling $1,085m at 
31 December 2011 (2010 $1,027m). The structure is managed to 
maintain an investment grade credit rating, to provide ongoing 
returns to shareholders and to service debt obligations, whilst 
maintaining maximum operational flexibility. A key characteristic  
of IHG’s managed and franchised business model is that it is highly 
cash generative, with a high return on capital employed. Surplus 
cash is either reinvested in the business, used to repay debt or 
returned to shareholders. The Group maintains a conservative level 
of debt which is monitored on the basis of a cash flow leverage 
ratio, being net debt divided by EBITDA. 
Hedging
Interest	 rate	 risk	
The Group hedges its interest rate risk by taking out interest rate 
swaps to fix the interest flows on between 25% and 75% of its net 
borrowings in major currencies, although 100% of interest flows 
were fixed at 31 December 2011. At 31 December 2011, the Group 
held interest rate swaps (swapping floating for fixed) with notional 
principals of $100m (2010 $100m and EUR75m). The Group 
designates its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges (see note  
23 for further details).
Foreign	 currency	 risk	
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on income streams 
denominated in foreign currencies. From time to time, the Group 
hedges a portion of forecast foreign currency income by taking out 
forward exchange contracts. The designated risk is the spot foreign 
exchange risk. There were no such contracts in place at either  
31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010. 
Hedge	 of	 net	 investment	 in	 foreign	 operations	
The Group designates its foreign currency bank borrowings  
and currency derivatives as net investment hedges of foreign 
operations. The designated risk is the spot foreign exchange  
risk for loans and short dated derivatives and the forward risk  
for the seven-year currency swaps. The interest on these financial 
instruments is taken through financial income or expense except 
for the seven-year currency swaps where interest is taken to the 
currency translation reserve. 
At 31 December 2011, the Group held currency swaps with a 
principal of $415m (2010 $415m) and short dated foreign exchange 
swaps with principals of EUR75m (2010 EUR75m and HKD70m) 
(see note 23 for further details). The maximum amount of foreign 
exchange derivatives held during the year as net investment hedges 
and measured at calendar quarter ends were currency swaps with 
a principal of $415m (2010 $415m) and short dated foreign exchange 
swaps with principals of HKDnil (2010 HKD280m) and EUR100m 
(2010 EUR75m).
Hedge effectiveness is measured at calendar quarter ends.  
No ineffectiveness arose in respect of either the Group’s cash  
flow or net investment hedges during the current or prior year.
21. Financial risk management continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
21. Financial risk management continued
Liquidity	 risk
The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 
	 	 	 	 	 Less 	 than	 	 Between 	 1	 and	 Between 	 2	 and	 More 	 than	 	
	 	 	 	 	 1	 year	 2	 years	 5	 years	 5	 years	 Total	
	 	 	 	 	 $m	 $m	 $m	 $m	 $m
31	 December	 2011	
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
 Secured bank loans   	5 	– 	– 	– 	5
 £250m 6% bonds  	 23	 23	 456	 –	 502
 Finance lease obligations   	 16	 16	 48	 3,332	 3,412
 Unsecured bank loans   	 100	 –	 –	 –	 100
 Trade and other payables   	 707	 123	 135	 324	 1,289
 Provisions   	 12	 1	 1	 –	 14
Derivative financial liabilities:
 Interest rate swaps   	1 	– 	– 	– 	1
 Forward foreign exchange contracts  	 (3)	 –	 –	 –	 (3)
 Currency swaps – outflows  	 26	 26	 492	 –	 544
   – inflows  	 (23)	 (23)	 (456)	 –	 (502)
     Less than  Between 1 and Between 2 and More than  
     1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total 
     $m $m $m $m $m
31 December 2010 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
 Secured bank loans    1 5 – – 6
 £250m 6% bonds   23 23 70 411 527
 Finance lease obligations    16 16 48 3,348 3,428
 Unsecured bank loans    201 – – – 201
 Trade and other payables    722 118 137 336 1,313
 Provisions    8 – 2 – 10
Derivative financial liabilities:
 Interest rate swaps    4 1 – – 5
 Forward foreign exchange contracts   2 – – – 2
 Currency swaps – outflows   26 26 77 441 570
   – inflows   (23) (23) (70) (411) (527)
Cash flows relating to unsecured bank loans are classified according to the maturity date of the loan drawdown rather than the facility 
maturity date. 
Interest rate swaps are expected to affect profit or loss in the same periods that the cash flows are expected to occur.
Credit	 risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum exposure to credit risk. 
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Equity securities available-for-sale     	 112	 87
Derivative financial instruments     	3 –
Loans and receivables:
 Cash and cash equivalents     	 182	 78
 Other financial assets      	 44	 48
 Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments     	 327	 324
       	 668	 537
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 101 	 102	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
21. Financial risk management continued
Fair	 values
The table below compares carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
        2011  2010
      Carrying  Carrying 
      value	 Fair 	 value value Fair value 
     Note $m	 $m $m $m
Financial	 assets
Equity securities available-for-sale*    15	 112	 112	 87 87
Derivatives*   23	3 	3 – –
Loans and receivables:
 Cash and cash equivalents   18	 182	 182	 78 78
 Other financial assets   15	 44	 44	 48 48
 Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments  17	 327	 327	 324 324
Financial	 liabilities
£250m 6% bonds   22	 (384)	 (411)	 (385) (404)
Finance lease obligations   22	 (209)	 (268)	 (206) (217)
Other borrowings   22	 (98)	 (98)	 (203) (203)
Trade and other payables   19	 (1,204)	 (1,204)	 (1,186) (1,186)
Derivatives*   23	 (39)	 (39)	 (44) (44)
Provisions   20	 (14)	 (14)	 (10) (10)
* Financial assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates book value due to the short maturity of the investments and deposits. Equity 
securities available-for-sale and derivatives are held in the Group statement of financial position at fair value as set out in notes 15 and 23. 
The fair value of other financial assets approximates book value based on prevailing market rates. The fair value of borrowings, excluding 
finance lease obligations and the fixed rate £250m 6% bonds, approximates book value as interest rates reset to market rates on a frequent 
basis. The fair value of the £250m 6% bonds is based on the quoted market price. The fair value of finance lease obligations is calculated  
by discounting future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The fair value of trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and 
current provisions approximates to their carrying value, including the future redemption liability of the Group’s loyalty programme.
Fair	 value	 hierarchy
The Group uses the following valuation hierarchy to determine the carrying value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2:  other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly  
or indirectly.
Level 3:  techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
	 	 	 					 2 011				 2010
     Level	 1	 Level 	 2	 Level 	 3 Total	 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
    $m	 $m	 $m	 $m $m $m $m $m
Assets
Equity securities available-for-sale	 	 	 15	 –	 97	 112	 3 – 84 87
Derivatives   –	 3	 –	 3 – – – –
Liabilities
Derivatives	 	 	 –	 (39)	 –	 (39)	 – (44) – (44)
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the year and no transfers into and out of Level 3.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
21. Financial risk management continued
The following table reconciles movements in instruments classified as Level 3 during the year:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
At 1 January      84	 69
Additions    	 	 1	 4
Repaid    	 	 (3)	 (5)
Valuation gains recognised in other comprehensive income   	 	 16	 16
Impairment*   	 	 (1)	 –
At	 31	 December   	 	 97	 84
* The impairment charge recognised in the income statement (see note 5) also includes $2m (2010 $1m) of losses reclassified from equity.
The Level 3 equity securities relate to investments in unlisted shares which are valued by applying an average price-earnings (P/E) ratio for 
a competitor group to the earnings generated by the investment. A 10% increase in the average P/E ratio would result in a $5m increase 
(2010 $4m) in the fair value of the investments and a 10% decrease in the average P/E ratio would result in a $5m decrease (2010 $4m) in 
the fair value of the investments.
22. Loans and other borrowings
       2011   2010
    Current	 Non-current	 Total Current Non-current Total 
    $m	 $m	 	 $m $m $m $m
Secured bank loans	 	 5	 –	 5	 1 4 5
Finance lease obligations	 	 16	 193	 209	 16 190 206
£250m 6% bonds	 	 –	 384	 384	 – 385 385
Unsecured bank loans	 	 –	 93	 93	 1 197 198
Total	 borrowings 	 	 21	 670	 691	 18 776 794
Denominated in the following currencies:
 Sterling	 	 –	 384	 384	 – 385 385
 US dollars	 	 16	 286	 302	 16 287 303
 Euro	 	 –	 –	 –	 – 100 100
 Other	 	 5	 –	 5	 2 4 6
	 	 	 	 21	 670	 691	 18 776 794
Secured	 bank	 loans
This New Zealand dollar mortgage (interest payable at 5.3%) is secured on the hotel property to which it relates. 
Non-current amounts include $nil (2010 $4m) repayable by instalments.
Finance	 lease	 obligations	
Finance lease obligations, which relate to the 99-year lease (of which 94 years remain) on the InterContinental Boston, are payable  
as follows:
       2011  2010
      Minimum	 Present Minimum Present 
      lease	 value	 of lease value of 
      payments	 payments payments payments 
      $m	 $m $m $m
Less than one year 	 	 	 16	 16	 16 16
Between one and five years 	 	 	 64	 48	 64 48
More than five years 	 	 	 3,332	 145	 3,348 142
   	 	 	 3,412	 209	 3,428 206
Less: amount representing finance charges 	 	 	 (3,203)	 –	 (3,222) –
   	 	 	 209	 209	 206 206
The Group has the option to extend the term of the lease for two additional 20-year terms. Payments under the lease step up at regular 
intervals over the lease term.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 103 	 104	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
notes to the Group financial statements continued
22. Loans and other borrowings continued
£250m	 6%	 bonds
The 6% fixed interest sterling bonds were issued on 9 December 2009 and are repayable in full on 9 December 2016. Interest is payable 
annually on 9 December in each year commencing 9 December 2010 to the maturity date. The bonds were initially priced at 99.465% of  
face value and are unsecured. Currency swaps were transacted at the same time the bonds were issued in order to swap the proceeds  
and interest flows into US dollars (see note 23 for further details).
Unsecured	 bank	 loans
Unsecured bank loans are borrowings under the Group’s Syndicated Facility and its short-term bilateral loan and overdraft facilities. These 
facilities contain financial covenants and, as at the end of the reporting period, the Group was not in breach of these covenants, nor had any 
breaches or defaults occurred during the year. Borrowings under the facilities are classified as non-current when the facilities have more 
than 12 months to expiry. The Syndicated Facility comprises a $1.07bn five-year revolving credit facility that matures in November 2016. 
This replaced a $1.6bn five-year revolving facility (maturing in May 2013) in November 2011 following a successful refinancing of the facility.
Facilities	 provided	 by	 banks
	
       2011   2010
    Utilised	 Unutilised	 Total Utilised Unutilised Total 
			 	 $m	 $m	 $m $m $m $m
Committed	 	 105	 970	 1,075	 205 1,400 1,605
Uncommitted	 	 –	 79	 79	 1 52 53
	 	 	 	 105	 1,049	 1,154	 206 1,452 1,658
         2011 2010 
        $m $m
Unutilised facilities expire:
 Within one year   	 	 79	 52
 After two but before five years   	 	 970	 1,400
     	 	 1,049	 1,452
Utilised facilities are calculated based on actual drawings and may not agree to the carrying value of loans held at amortised cost.
23. Derivative financial instruments
         2011 2010 
        $m $m
Currency swaps     	 39	 38
Interest rate swaps     	 –	 4
Forward foreign exchange contracts     	 (3)	 2
       	 36	 44
Analysed as:
 Current assets      (3) –
 Current liabilities     	 –	 6
 Non-current liabilities     	 39	 38
       	 36	 44
Derivatives are recorded at their fair values, estimated using discounted future cash flows taking into consideration interest and exchange 
rates prevailing on the last day of the reporting period.
Currency	 swaps
At 31 December 2011, the Group held currency swaps with a principal of $415m (2010 $415m). These swaps were transacted at the same 
time as the £250m 6% bonds were issued in December 2009 in order to swap the bonds’ proceeds and interest flows into US dollars. Under 
the terms of the swaps, $415m was borrowed and £250m deposited for seven years at a fixed exchange rate of £1 = $1.66. The fair value of 
the currency swap comprises two components: $29m (2010 $27m) relating to the repayment of the underlying principal and $10m (2010 
$11m) relating to interest payments. The element relating to the underlying principal is disclosed as a component of net debt (see note 24).  
The currency swaps are designated as net investment hedges. BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
23. Derivative financial instruments continued
Interest	 rate	 swaps
At 31 December 2011, the Group held interest rate swaps with notional principals of $100m (2010 $100m and EUR75m). These swaps are 
held to fix the interest payable on borrowings under the Syndicated Facility; at 31 December 2011, $100m of US dollar borrowings were  
fixed at 1.99% until May 2012. The interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges.
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts
At 31 December 2011, the Group held short dated foreign exchange swaps with principals of EUR75m (2010 EUR75m and HKD70m). The 
swaps are used to manage US dollar surplus cash and reduce euro borrowings whilst maintaining operational flexibility. The foreign 
exchange swaps have been designated as net investment hedges.
24. Net debt
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents   	 	 	 	 182	 78
Loans and other borrowings – current    	 	 (21)	 (18)
   – non-current     	 (670)	 (776)
Derivatives hedging debt values (note 23)     	 (29)	 (27)
Net	 debt   	 	 	 (538)	 (743)
Movement	 in	 net	 debt
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   	 	 	 107 51
Add back cash flows in respect of other components of net debt:
 Decrease in borrowings   	 	 119	 292
Decrease in net debt arising from cash flows     	 226	 343
Non-cash movements:
 Finance lease obligations   	 	 	 (3)	 (2)
 Exchange and other adjustments   	 	 	 (18)	 8
Decrease in net debt   	 	 205	 349
Net debt at beginning of the year   	 	 	 (743)	 (1,092)
Net	 debt	 at	 end	 of	 year   	 	 	 (538)	 (743)
Net debt includes the exchange element of the fair value of currency swaps that fix the value of the Group’s £250m 6% bonds at $415m.  
An equal and opposite exchange adjustment on the retranslation of the £250m 6% bonds is included in non-current loans and other 
borrowings. 
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 105 	 106	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
notes to the Group financial statements continued
25. Retirement benefits
Retirement and death in service benefits are provided for eligible Group employees in the UK principally by the InterContinental Hotels UK 
Pension Plan. The plan, which is funded and HM Revenue & Customs registered, covers approximately 545 (2010 500) employees, of which 
125 (2010 140) are in the defined benefit section and 420 (2010 360) are in the defined contribution section. The defined benefit section of the 
plan closed to new entrants in 2002 and will close to future accrual for current members with effect from 1 July 2013. New members  
are provided with defined contribution arrangements as will be members of the defined benefit section in July 2013. The assets of the plan  
are held in self-administered trust funds separate from the Group’s assets. In addition, there are unfunded UK pension arrangements for 
certain members affected by the lifetime or annual allowance. The Group also maintains the following US-based defined benefit plans; the 
funded InterContinental Hotels Pension Plan, unfunded InterContinental Hotels non-qualified pension plans and post-employment benefits 
schemes. These plans are closed to new members. The Group also operates a number of smaller pension schemes outside the UK,  
the most significant of which is a defined contribution scheme in the US; there is no material difference between the pension costs of,  
and contributions to, these schemes.
In respect of the defined benefit plans, the amounts recognised in the Group income statement, in administrative expenses, are:
       Pension plans
        Post-employment 
     UK  US and other benefits  Total
     2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010  
    $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Current service cost	 	 6	 6	1 1	– –	7 7
Interest cost on benefit obligation	 	 28	 25	 10 11	1 1	 39 37
Expected return on plan assets	 	 (29) (25)	 (9) (10)	– –	 (38) (35)
Operating profit before exceptional items	 	5 6	2 2	1 1	8 9
Exceptional items – curtailment gain	 	 (28) –	– –	– –	 (28) –
	 	 	 	 	 (23) 6	2 2	1 1	 (20) 9
The curtailment gain arises in respect of the UK pension plan and from the decision to close the defined benefit section to future accrual 
with effect from 1 July 2013. The plan rules were formally amended to reflect this change in September 2011.
The amounts recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income are:
       Pension plans
        Post-employment 
     UK  US and other benefits  Total
     2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
    $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Actual return on plan assets	 	 53	 46	4 13	– –	 57 59
Less: expected return on plan assets	 	 (29)	 (25)	 (9) (10)	– –	 (38) (35)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets  	 24	 21	 (5) 3	– –	 19 24
Actuarial losses on plan liabilities	 	 (22)	 (49)	 (26) (13)	 (3) (7)	 (51) (69)
Total actuarial gains/(losses)	 	 2	 (28)	 (31) (10)	 (3) (7)	 (32) (45)
Change in asset restriction and liability in respect
 of funding commitments*	 	 	 (11)	 (48)	– –	– –	 (11) (48)
	   	 (9)	 (76)	 (31) (10)	 (3) (7)	 (43) (93)
* Relates to tax that would be deducted at source in respect of a refund of the surplus taking into account amounts payable under funding commitments. BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
25. Retirement benefits continued
The assets and liabilities of the schemes and the amounts recognised in the Group statement of financial position are:
       Pension plans
        Post-employment 
     UK  US and other benefits  Total 
     2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
    $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Retirement	 benefit	 assets
Fair value of plan assets	 	 551	 –	 16 16	– –	 567 16
Present value of benefit obligations	 	 (471)	 –	 (12) (11)	– –	 (483) (11)
Surplus in schemes	 	 	 80	 –	4 5	– –	 84 5
Asset restriction and liability in respect
 of funding commitments*	 	 (63)	 –	– –	– –	 (63) –
Total retirement benefit assets	 	 17	 –	4 5	– –	 21 5
Retirement	 benefit	 obligations
Fair value of plan assets  	 –	 475	 117 114	– –	 117 589
Present value of benefit obligations	 	 (54)	 (512)	 (221) (198)	 (30) (27)	 (305) (737)
Deficit in schemes	 	 (54)	 (37)	 (104) (84)	 (30) (27)	 (188) (148)
Asset restriction and liability in respect 
 of funding commitments* 	 –	 (52)	– –	– –	– (52)
Total retirement benefit obligations  	 (54)	 (89)	 (104) (84)	 (30) (27)	 (188) (200)
Total fair value of plan assets	 	 551	 475	 133 130	– –	 684 605
Total present value of benefit obligations	 	 (525)	 (512)	 (233) (209)	 (30) (27)	 (788) (748)
* Relates to tax that would be deducted at source in respect of a refund of the surplus taking into account amounts payable under funding commitments.
The ‘US and other’ surplus of $4m (2010 $5m) relates to a defined benefit pension scheme in Hong Kong. Included within the ‘US and other’ 
deficit is $1m (2010 $2m) relating to a defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands.
Assumptions
The principal financial assumptions used by the actuaries to determine the benefit obligation are:
         Pension plans
          Post-employment 
       UK  US benefits
      2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
      % % % % % %
Wages and salaries increases  	 	 	 4.6	 5.0	– –	 4.0 4.0
Pensions increases  	 	 	 3.1	 3.5	– –	– –
Discount rate  	 	 	 4.7	 5.3	 4.1 5.2	 4.1 5.2
Inflation rate  	 	 3.1	 3.5	– –	– –
Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for next year:  							
 Pre 65 (ultimate rate reached in 2021)    	 	 	 9.5	 10.0
 Post 65 (ultimate rate reached in 2023)    	 	 	 12.8	 14.0
Ultimate rate that the cost trend rate trends to  	 					 5.0	 5.0
Mortality is the most significant demographic assumption. The current assumptions for the UK plan are based on the S1NA tables with long 
cohort projections and a 1% per annum underpin to future mortality improvements with age rated down by 1.75 years for pensioners and 
1.5 years for non-pensioners. In the US, the current assumptions are based on the RP-2000 IRS PPA @ 2012 Non-Annuitant/Annuitant 
healthy tables for males and females.
Accordingly, assumed life expectancy at retirement age is as follows:
           Pension plans
         UK  US
         2011 2010 2011 2010 
        Years Years Years Years
Current pensioners at 65
a
 – male    	 	 	 24	 24	 19 19
   – female    	 	 	 27	 27	 21 21
Future pensioners at 65
b
 – male    	 	 	 26	 26	 21 21
  – female    	 	 	 29	 29	 22 22
a  Relates to assumptions based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the end of the reporting period.
b  Relates to assumptions based on longevity (in years) relating to an employee retiring in 2032.
The assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 107 	 108	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
25. Retirement benefits continued
Sensitivities
The value of plan assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes in assumptions used for determining 
retirement benefit costs and obligations may have a material impact on the income statement and the statement of financial position.  
The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. The following table provides an estimate 
of the potential impact of each of these variables on the principal pension plans.
       UK  US
       Increase/  Increase/ 
      Higher/(lower) (decrease) Higher/(lower) (decrease) 
      pension cost in liabilities pension cost in liabilities 
      $m $m $m $m
Discount rate – 0.25% decrease    0.3 27.0 0.3 7.0
   – 0.25% increase    (0.3) (26.9) (0.3) (6.7)
Inflation rate – 0.25% increase    1.4 25.5 – –
   – 0.25% decrease    (1.4) (24.7) – –
Mortality rate – one year increase    0.6 11.4 0.4 9.7
A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in assumed healthcare costs trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-
employment benefit obligations as at 31 December 2011 by approximately $2.8m (2010 $2.5m). 
       Pension plans
        Post-employment 
     UK  US and other benefits  Total
     2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
Movement	 in	 benefit	 obligation  $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Benefit obligation at 1 January	  512	 461 209 197 27 20 748 678
Current service cost	 	 6	 6	1 1	– –	7 7
Members’ contributions	 	 1	 1	– –	– –	1 1
Interest expense	 	 28	 25	 10 11	1 1	 39 37
Benefits paid	 	 (13)	 (12)	 (13) (13)	 (1) (1)	 (27) (26)
Curtailment gain	 	 (28)	 –	– –	– –	 (28) –
Actuarial loss arising in the year	 	 22	 49	 26 13	3 7	 51 69
Exchange adjustments	 	 (3)	 (18)	– –	– –	 (3) (18)
Benefit obligation at 31 December	 	 525	 512	 233 209	 30 27	 788 748
Comprising:
 Funded plans	 	 471	 457	 181 161	– –	 652 618
 Unfunded plans	 	 54	 55	 52 48	 30 27	 136 130
	 	 	 	 	 525	 512	 233 209	 30 27	 788 748
       Pension plans
        Post-employment 
     UK  US and other benefits  Total
    2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
Movement	 in	 plan	 assets  $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January	  475	 426 130 126 – – 605 552
Company contributions	 	 40	 31	 11 4	1 1	 52 36
Members’ contributions	 	 1	 1	– –	– –	1 1
Benefits paid	 	 (13)	 (12)	 (13) (13)	 (1) (1)	 (27) (26)
Expected return on plan assets	 	 29	 25	9 10	– –	 38 35
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising in the year	 	 24	 21	 (5) 3	– –	 19 24
Exchange adjustments	 	 (5)	 (17)	1 –	– –	 (4) (17)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December	 	 	 551	 475	 133 130	– –	 684 605
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
25. Retirement benefits continued
The plan assets are comprised as follows:
       2011  2010 
      Value	 Value  
      $m	 % $m %
UK	 pension	 plans
Liability matching investment funds 	 	 	 290	 53	 237 50
Bonds 	 	 	 74	 13	 43 9
Equities 	 	 	 93	 17	 96 20
Hedge funds   	 56	 10	 61 13
Cash and other	 	 	 	 38	 7	 38 8
Total market value of assets 	 	 	 551	 100	 475 100
US	 pension	 plans
Equities 	 	 	 58	 53	 65 60
Fixed income 	 	 	 52	 47	 44 40
Total market value of assets	 	 	 	 110	 100 109 100
The expected overall rates of return on assets, being 4.8% (2010 5.9%) for the UK plan and 7.3% (2010 7.5%) for the US plans, have been 
determined following advice from the plans’ independent actuaries and are based on the expected return on each asset class together with 
consideration of the plans’ asset strategy. In respect of the UK plan, the long-term rate of return assumptions are 3.3% (2010 4.5%) for 
liability matching funds and bonds and 7.4% (2010 8.9%) for equities and other return seeking assets.
Funding	 commitments
The most recent actuarial valuation of the InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan was carried out as at 31 March 2009 and showed a 
deficit of £129m on a funding basis. Under the recovery plan agreed with the trustees, the Group aims to eliminate this deficit by March 2017 
through additional Company contributions of up to £100m and projected investment returns. The agreed additional contributions comprise 
three annual payments of £10m (£10m was paid in August 2010, £10m in July 2011 and a further payment of £10m is due on or before 31 July 
2012), together with further payments related to the disposal of hotels (7.5% of net sales proceeds) and growth in the Group’s EBITDA above 
specified targets. As at 31 December 2011, total additional contributions of £36m have been paid, including £21m during 2011. If required in 
2017, a top-up payment will be made to bring the total additional contributions up to £100m. The plan is formally valued every three years 
and future valuations could lead to changes in the amounts payable beyond March 2012.
Company contributions are expected to be $37m in 2012, including known UK additional contributions of £11m with further amounts payable 
if there are any hotel disposals.
     2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
History	 of	 experience	 gains	 and	 losses   $m $m $m $m $m
UK	 pension	 plans
Fair value of plan assets	 	 551	 475 426 437 611
Present value of benefit obligations	 	 (525)	 (512) (461) (411) (597)
Surplus/(deficit) in the plans	 	 26	 (37) (35) 26 14
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities	 	 (22)	 (49) (44) 55 31
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets	 	 24	 21 (14) (57) (6)
US	 and	 other	 pension	 plans
Fair value of plan assets	 	 133	 130 126 112 144
Present value of benefit obligations	 	 (233)	 (209) (197) (185) (184)
Deficit in the plans	 	 (100)	 (79) (71) (73) (40)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities	 	 (26)	 (13) (13) 3 –
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets	 	 (5)	 3 14 (38) –
US	 post-employment	 benefits
Present value of benefit obligations	 	 (30)	 (27) (20) (19) (20)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities	 	 (3)	 (7) (1) 1 –
The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses recognised since 1 January 2004 in the Group statement of comprehensive income is $285m 
(2010 $253m). The Group is unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS of $298m and 
taken directly to total equity is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of the schemes. Therefore, the Group is unable to 
determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 
before 1 January 2004.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 109 	 110	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
26. Deferred tax 
        Other 
   Property, Deferred     short-term 
   plant and gains on  Employee Intangible temporary 
   equipment loan notes Losses benefits assets differences Total 
   $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 January 2010 189 151 (146) (35) 31 (167) 23
Income statement 24 (3) (12) 11 6 – 26
Statement of comprehensive income – – – (22) – (2) (24)
Statement of changes in equity – – – – – (12) (12)
Exchange and other adjustments (8) (4) 8 (1) (2) (1) (8)
At 31 December 2010 205 144 (150) (47) 35 (182) 5
Income statement 19 (7) 17 – 1 20 50
Statement of comprehensive income – – – (12) – 1 (11)
Statement of changes in equity – – – – – 9 9
Exchange and other adjustments (3) – – – 2 (1) (2)
At	 31	 December	 2011	 221	 137	 (133)	 (59)	 38	 (153)	 51
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Analysed as:
 Deferred tax assets     	 (106)	 (79)
 Deferred tax liabilities    	 	 97	 84
 Liabilities held for sale    	 	 60	 –
      	 	 51	 5
Deferred gains on loan notes includes $55m (2010 $55m) which is expected to fall due for payment in 2016.
The deferred tax asset recognised in respect of losses of $133m (2010 $150m) includes $104m (2010 $113m) in respect of capital losses 
available to be utilised against the realisation of capital gains which are recognised as a deferred tax liability and $29m (2010 $37m) in 
respect of revenue tax losses. Deferred tax assets of $44m (2010 $79m) are recognised in relation to legal entities which suffered a tax  
loss in the current or preceding period. These assets are recognised based upon future taxable profit forecasts for the entities concerned.
Tax losses with a net tax value of $358m (2010 $411m), including capital losses with a value of $134m (2010 $148m), have not been 
recognised. These losses may be carried forward indefinitely with the exception of $11m which expires after five years and $1m which 
expires after six years (2010 $16m which expires after six years). Deferred tax assets with a net tax value of $29m (2010 $15m) in respect of 
employee benefits, up to $34m (2010 $nil) in respect of foreign tax credits and $52m (2010 $5m) in respect of other items have not been 
recognised. These losses and other deferred tax assets have not been recognised as the Group does not currently anticipate being able to 
offset these against future profits or gains in order to realise any economic benefit in the foreseeable future. However, future benefits may 
arise as a result of resolving tax uncertainties, or as a consequence of case law and legislative developments which make the value of 
assets more certain.
At 31 December 2011, the Group has not provided deferred tax in relation to temporary differences associated with post-acquisition 
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries as the Group is in a position to control the timing of reversal of these temporary differences and  
it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Following introduction of a UK dividend exemption regime, the tax which 
would arise upon reversal of the temporary differences is not expected to exceed $20m (2010 $20m).
Other short-term temporary differences relate primarily to provisions and accruals and share-based payments.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Annual	 Bonus	 Plan	
The IHG Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) enables eligible employees, 
including Executive Directors, to receive all or part of their bonus  
in the form of deferred shares. The deferred shares are released  
on the third anniversary of the award date. Under the terms of the 
current plans, a fixed percentage of the bonus is awarded in the 
form of shares with no voluntary deferral and no matching shares. 
The awards in all of the plans are conditional on the participants 
remaining in the employment of a participating company or leaving 
for a qualifying reason as per the plan rules. Participation in the 
ABP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The 
number of shares is calculated by dividing a specific percentage of 
the participant’s annual performance-related bonus by the middle 
market quoted prices on the three consecutive dealing days 
immediately preceding the date of grant. A number of executives 
participated in the plan during the year and conditional rights over 
528,213 shares (2010 nil) were awarded to participants. 
Long	 Term	 Incentive	 Plan	
The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) allows Executive Directors  
and eligible employees to receive share awards, subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions, set by the Remuneration 
Committee, which are normally measured over a three-year period. 
Awards are normally made annually and, except in exceptional 
circumstances, will not exceed three times salary for Executive 
Directors and four times salary in the case of other eligible 
employees. During the year, conditional rights over 3,257,364 
(2010 2,602,773) shares were awarded to employees under the plan.  
The plan provides for the grant of ‘nil cost options’ to participants  
as an alternative to conditional share awards.
Executive	 Share	 Option	 Plan	
For options granted, the option price is not less than the market 
value of an ordinary share, or the nominal value if higher. The 
market value is the quoted price on the business day preceding the 
date of grant, or the average of the middle market quoted prices on 
the three consecutive dealing days immediately preceding the date 
of grant. A performance condition has to be met before options can 
be exercised. The performance condition is set by the Remuneration 
Committee. The plan was not operated during 2011 and no options 
were granted in the year under the plan. The latest date that any 
options may be exercised is 4 April 2015.
Sharesave	 Plan	
The Sharesave Plan is a savings plan whereby employees contract 
to save a fixed amount each month with a savings institution for 
three or five years. At the end of the savings term, employees are 
given the option to purchase shares at a price set before savings 
began. The Sharesave Plan is available to all UK employees 
(including Executive Directors) employed by participating Group 
companies provided that they have been employed for at least one 
year. The plan provides for the grant of options to subscribe for 
ordinary shares at the higher of nominal value and not less than 
80% of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares on the 
three dealing days immediately preceding the invitation date. The 
plan was not operated during 2011 and no options were granted  
in the year under the plan.
US	 Employee	 Stock	 Purchase	 Plan	
The US Employee Stock Purchase Plan will allow eligible 
employees resident in the US an opportunity to acquire Company 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) on advantageous terms.  
The option to purchase ADSs may be offered only to employees of 
designated subsidiary companies. The option price may not be less 
than the lesser of either 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on 
the date of grant or 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on the 
date of exercise. Options granted under the plan must generally be 
exercised within 27 months from the date of grant. The plan was not 
operated during 2011 and at 31 December 2011 no options had been 
granted under the plan. 
Former	 Six	 Continents	 Share	 Schemes	
Under the terms of the separation of Six Continents PLC in 2003, 
holders of options under the Six Continents Executive Share  
Option Schemes were given the opportunity to exchange their  
Six Continents PLC options for equivalent value new options  
over IHG shares. As a result of this exchange, 23,195,482 shares 
were put under option at prices ranging from 308.5p to 593.3p.  
The exchanged options were immediately exercisable and are  
not subject to performance conditions. During 2011, 397,943 
(2010 1,016,572) such options were exercised and 45,655 
(2010 82,076) lapsed, leaving a total of 458,814 (2010 902,412)  
such options outstanding at prices ranging from 308.5p to 434.2p.  
The latest date that any options may be exercised is 3 October 2012.
27. Share-based payments
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 111 	 112	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
27. Share-based payments continued
The Group recognised a cost of $25m (2010 $32m) in operating profit and $nil (2010 $1m) within exceptional administrative expenses related 
to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year, net of amounts borne by the System Fund.
The aggregate consideration in respect of ordinary shares issued under option schemes during the year was $8m (2010 $19m).
The following table sets forth awards and options granted during 2011. No awards were granted under the Executive Share Option Plan, 
Sharesave Plan or US Employee Stock Purchase Plan during the year.
       ABP  LTIP
Number of shares awarded in 2011    	 528,213	 	 3,257,364
The Group uses separate option pricing models and assumptions depending on the plan. The following tables set forth information about 
options granted in 2011 and 2010:
       ABP  LTIP
2011
Valuation model     Binomial  Monte Carlo
         Simulation and  
         Binomial
Weighted average share price     1,415.0p  1,281.0p
Expected dividend yield     2.14%  2.78%
Risk-free interest rate       1.88%
Volatility*       39%
Term (years)     3.0  3.0
         LTIP
2010 
Valuation model       Monte Carlo
         Simulation and  
         Binomial
Weighted average share price       1,033.0p
Expected dividend yield       3.10%
Risk-free interest rate       1.83%
Volatility*       41%
Term (years)       3.0
*  The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price corresponding to the expected life of the share award.
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
27. Share-based payments continued
Movements in the awards and options outstanding under the schemes are as follows:
       ABP  LTIP 
       Number of shares  Number of shares 
       thousands  thousands
Outstanding at 1 January 2010     1,854  12,266
Granted     –  2,603
Vested     (580)  (1,500)
Lapsed or cancelled     –  (2,027)
Outstanding at 31 December 2010     1,274  11,342
Granted     528  3,257
Vested     (702)  (3,454)
Lapsed or cancelled     (150)  (2,115)
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 950	 	 9,030
Fair	 value	 of	 awards	 granted	 during	 the	 year
2011   	 	 2,141.1¢	 	 819.7¢
2010     n/a*  1,181.9¢
Weighted	 average	 remaining	 contract	 life	 (years)
At	 31	 December	 2011   	 	 0.9	 	 1.0
At 31 December 2010     0.7  1.0
* No awards were granted during the year.
The above awards do not vest until the performance and service conditions have been met.
         Weighted 
       Number  Range of  average 
       of shares option prices option price 
       thousands pence pence
Executive	 Share	 Option	 Plan
Outstanding at 1 January 2010     5,870 308.5-619.8 482.8
Exercised     (2,497) 349.1-619.8 478.6
Lapsed or cancelled     (82) 349.1 349.1 
Outstanding at 31 December 2010     3,291 308.5-619.8 489.3
Exercised     (1,075) 308.5-619.8 476.5
Lapsed or cancelled     (46) 422.8 422.8
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 2,170	 308.5-619.8	 497.0
Options	 exercisable
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 2,170	 308.5-619.8	 497.0
At 31 December 2010     3,291 308.5-619.8 489.3
Included within the options outstanding under the Executive Share Option Plan are options over 458,814 (2010 902,412, 2009 2,001,060) shares that have not been recognised in 
accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options, relating to former Six Continents share schemes, have not been subsequently 
modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options vested during the year was 1,265.9p. The closing share price on 
31 December 2011 was 1,157.0p and the range during the year was 955.0p to 1,435.0p per share.
Summarised information about options outstanding at 31 December 2011 under the share option schemes is as follows:
        Options outstanding and exercisable
        Weighted 
        average Weighted 
       Number remaining average 
       outstanding contract life option price 
Range of exercise prices (pence)      thousands years pence
Executive	 Share	 Option	 Plan
308.5      4 0.8 308.5
434.2 to 494.2     1,745 1.6 467.8
619.8     421 3.3 619.8
       2,170 1.9 497.0
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 113 	 114	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
28. Issued share capital and reserves
Equity	 share	 capital
      Number of  Nominal Share Equity share 
      shares value premium capital 
      millions $m $m $m
Allotted,	 called	 up	 and	 fully	 paid	 (ordinary	 shares	 of	 13
29
⁄47p)
At 1 January 2010    287 63 79 142
Issued on exercise of share options    2 1 18 19
Exchange adjustments    – (3) (3) (6)
At 31 December 2010    289 61 94 155
Issued on exercise of share options    1 – 8 8
Exchange adjustments    – – (1) (1)
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 	 290	 61	 101	 162
The authority given to the Company at the AGM on 27 May 2011 to purchase its own shares was still valid at 31 December 2011. A resolution 
to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 25 May 2012.
The balance classified as equity share capital includes the total net proceeds (both nominal value and share premium) on issue of the 
Company’s equity share capital, comprising 13
29
⁄47p shares. The share premium reserve represents the amount of proceeds received  
for shares in excess of their nominal value.
The Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The nature and purpose of the other reserves shown in the Group statement of changes in equity on pages 74 and 75 of the financial 
statements is as follows:
Capital	 redemption	 reserve
This reserve maintains the nominal value of the equity share capital of the Company when shares are repurchased or cancelled.
Shares	 held	 by	 employee	 share	 trusts
Comprises $26.5m (2010 $34.6m) in respect of 1.5m (2010 1.9m) InterContinental Hotels Group PLC ordinary shares held by employee 
share trusts, with a market value at 31 December 2011 of $26m (2010 $37m).
Other	 reserves
Comprises the merger and revaluation reserves previously recognised under UK GAAP, together with the reserve arising as a consequence 
of the Group’s capital reorganisation in June 2005. Following the change in presentational currency to the US dollar in 2008 (see page 78), 
this reserve also includes exchange differences arising on the retranslation to period-end exchange rates of equity share capital, the capital 
redemption reserve and shares held by employee share trusts.
Unrealised	 gains	 and	 losses	 reserve
This reserve records movements to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets and the effective portion of the cumulative net change  
in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The fair value of cash flow hedging instruments outstanding at 31 December 2011 was $nil (2010 $4m liability).
Currency	 translation	 reserve
This reserve records the movement in exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations 
and exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings and derivative instruments that provide a hedge against net investments in 
foreign operations. On adoption of IFRS, cumulative exchange differences were deemed to be $nil as permitted by IFRS 1.
The fair value of derivative instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations outstanding at 31 December 2011 
was a $36m net liability (2010 $40m liability).
notes to the Group financial statements continued BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
29. Operating leases
During the year ended 31 December 2011, $64m (2010 $53m) was recognised as an expense in the Group income statement in respect of 
operating leases, net of amounts borne directly by the System Fund. The expense includes contingent rents of $18m (2010 $8m).
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Due within one year   	 	 46	 50
One to two years   	 	 41	 40
Two to three years   	 	 32	 36
Three to four years   	 	 23	 31
Four to five years   	 	 21	 25
More than five years   	 	 255	 323
    		 	 418	 505
In addition, in certain circumstances the Group is committed to making additional lease payments that are contingent on the performance 
of the hotels that are being leased.
The average remaining term of these leases, which generally contain renewal options, is approximately 19 years (2010 21 years).  
No material restrictions or guarantees exist in the Group’s lease obligations. 
Total future minimum rentals expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases are $14m (2010 $17m).
30. Capital and other commitments
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Contracts placed for expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets not provided 
for in the Group financial statements   	 	 14 14
The Group has also committed to invest up to $60m in two investments accounted for under the equity method of which $36m had been 
spent at 31 December 2011.
31. Contingencies
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Contingent liabilities not provided for in the Group financial statements   	8 8
In limited cases, the Group may provide performance guarantees to third-party hotel owners to secure management contracts.  
The maximum unprovided exposure under such guarantees is $42m (2010 $90m). 
From time to time, the Group is subject to legal proceedings the ultimate outcome of each being always subject to many uncertainties 
inherent in litigation. The Group has also given warranties in respect of the disposal of certain of its former subsidiaries. It is the view of  
the Directors that, other than to the extent that liabilities have been provided for in these financial statements, such legal proceedings and 
warranties are not expected to result in material financial loss to the Group.
32. Related party disclosures
        2011 2010 
			     $m $m
Total	 compensation	 of	 key	 management	 personnel
Short-term employment benefits   	 	 	 18.8 13.6
Post-employment benefits    	 	 	 0.8 0.6
Termination benefits	 					 1 .4 –
Equity compensation benefits   	 	 	 8.1 9.4
     	 	 	 29.1 23.6
There were no other transactions with key management personnel during the year ended 31 December 2011 or the previous year.
Related party disclosures for associates and joint ventures are included in note 14.
Key management personnel comprises the Board and Executive Committee.
	 n otes to the Group financial statements	 115 	 116	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
33. System Fund
The Group operates a System Fund (the Fund) to collect and administer assessments and contributions from hotel owners for specific use 
in marketing, the Priority Club Rewards loyalty programme and the global reservation system. The Fund and loyalty programme are 
accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies set out on page 82 of the financial statements. 
The following information is relevant to the operation of the Fund:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Income:*    		 
 Assessment fees and contributions received from hotels    	 1,025	 944
 Proceeds from sale of Priority Club Rewards points    	 128	 106
Key elements of expenditure:*     	 
 Marketing  	 	 	 	 203	 170
 Priority Club  	 	 	 	 232	 250
 Payroll costs  	 	 	 	 182	 167
Net surplus/(deficit) for the year*	 					 1 9	 (51)
Interest payable to the Fund     	 1	 2
* Not included in the Group income statement in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies.
The payroll costs above relate to 3,885 (2010 3,927) employees whose costs are borne by the Fund.
The following liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the Group statement of financial position:
        2011 2010 
        $m $m
Cumulative short-term net surplus     	 39	 20
Loyalty programme liability     	 578	 531
       	 617	 551
The net change in the loyalty programme liability and Fund surplus contributed an inflow of $66m (2010 $10m) to the Group’s cash flow 
from operations.
34. Principal operating subsidiary undertakings
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC was the beneficial owner of all of the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiary 
undertakings, of the following companies during the year:
Six Continents Limited
a
Hotel Inter-Continental London Limited
a
IHG Hotels Limited
a
Six Continents Hotels, Inc.
b
Inter-Continental Hotels Corporation
b
111 East 48th Street Holdings, LLC
b
InterContinental Hotels Group Resources, Inc.
b
InterContinental Hong Kong Limited
c
Société Nouvelle du Grand Hotel SA
d
The companies listed above include those which principally affect the amount of profit and assets of the Group.
a Incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
b Incorporated in the US.
c Incorporated in Hong Kong.
d Incorporated in France.
notes to the Group financial statements continued   Pa r e n t c o m P a n y  
financial statements Parent company financial statements
	118	 Parent	company	balance	sheet
  Notes to the parent company  
  financial statements
	119	 1	 Accounting	policies
	119	 2	 Directors
	119	 3	 Investments
	119	 4	 Debtors
	 120	 5	 	 Creditors	
	 120	 6	 Share	capital
	 120	 7	 Movements	in	reserves
	121	 8	 	 Reconciliation	of	movements 	 	
in	shareholders’	funds
	121	 9	 Profit	and	dividends
	121	 10	 Contingencies
 121 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 122  Independent auditor’s report  
to the members
	 Notes to the Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements	 117
In this section we present the  
balance sheet of our parent  
company, InterContinental Hotels 
Group PLC, and the related notes 
supporting the parent company  
balance sheet for 2011.
Staybridge Suites Tyler University Area, Texas, US
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 	 118	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
pARent comp An y Fin Anci Al St At ement S
Parent company balance sheet
		      2011 2010 
31	 December	 2011     Note £m £m
Fixed	 assets
Investments     3	 2,934	 2,915
Current	 assets
Debtors     4	 18	 27
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    5	 (1,960)	 (2,147)
Net	 current	 liabilities   	 	 	 (1,942)	 (2,120)
Total	 assets	 less	 current	 liabilities	 					 9 92	 795
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 	 			 5	 (249)	 (248)
Net	 assets   	 	 	 743	 547
Capital	 and	 reserves
Called up share capital     6	 39	 39
Share premium account     7	 66	 61
Capital redemption reserve     7	 6	 6
Share-based payment reserve     7	 167	 148
Profit and loss account      7	 465	 293
Equity	 shareholders’	 funds   	 	 	 743	 547
Signed on behalf of the Board
Thomas	 Singer	
13 February 2012
No profit and loss account is presented for InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounts to £264m (2010 loss of £29m).
Notes on pages 119 to 121 form an integral part of these financial statements. BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
1. Accounting policies
Basis	 of	 accounting
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and on a going concern basis. They have been drawn up  
to comply with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). These accounts are for the Company and are not 
consolidated financial statements.
Fixed	 asset	 investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost plus share-based payments capital contributions less any provision for impairment.  
The Company records an increase in its investments in subsidiaries equal to the share-based payments charge recognised by its 
subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to equity. Details of the Group’s share-based payments are set out in note 27 of the Group  
financial statements on pages 111 to 113.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs. They are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost. Finance charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or premium on issue, are 
charged to the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method. 
Borrowings are classified as due after more than one year when the repayment date is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Financial	 risk	 management	 policies
Financial risk management policies are set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements on pages 99 and 100.
Capital	 risk	 management
The Group’s capital risk management policy is set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements on page 100.
Related	 party	 transactions
The Company takes advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 and does not disclose transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
2. Directors
        2011 2010
Average number of Non-Executive Directors     	 8	 7
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Remuneration costs   			 1 1
Detailed information on the emoluments, pensions, option holdings and shareholdings for each Non-Executive Director is shown in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 68.
3. Investments
         £m
At 1 January 2011       2,915
Share-based payments capital contribution       19
At	 31	 December	 2011    	 	 	 2,934
The Company is the beneficial owner of all of the equity share capital of InterContinental Hotels Limited. The principal operating subsidiary 
undertakings of that company are listed in note 34 of the Group financial statements.
4. Debtors
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    	 	 5	 14
Corporate taxation   	 	 	 13	 13
    	  	 18	 27
note S to the p ARent comp An y Fin Anci Al St At ement S
	 parent company financial statements and n otes to the parent company financial statements	 119 	 120	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
5. Creditors
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings     	 1,960	 2,147
Amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year
£250m 6% bonds	 					 2 49	 248
The 6% fixed interest sterling bonds were issued on 9 December 2009 and are repayable in full on 9 December 2016. Interest is payable 
annually on 9 December in each year commencing 9 December 2010 to the maturity date. The bonds were initially priced at 99.465% of  
face value and are unsecured.
6. Share capital
        Number  
        of shares 
         millions £m
Allotted,	 called	 up	 and	 fully	 paid	 (ordinary	 shares	 of	 13
29
⁄47p	 each)	
At 1 January 2011       289 39
Issued on exercise of share options      1 –
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 		  	 290	 39
The Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The aggregate consideration in respect of ordinary shares issued under option schemes during the year was £5m (2010 £12m).
         Thousands
Options	 to	 subscribe	 for	 ordinary	 shares
At 1 January 2011       3,291
Exercised*       (1,075)
Lapsed or cancelled       (46)
At	 31	 December	 2011	 						 2 ,170
Option exercise price per ordinary share (pence)      308.5-619.8
Final exercise date       4 April 2015
*  The weighted average option price was 476.5p for shares exercised under the Executive Share Option Plan.
The authority given to the Company at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 27 May 2011 to purchase its own shares was still valid at 
31 December 2011. A resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 25 May 2012.
7. Movements in reserves 
       Share Capital Share-based 
      premium redemption  payments  Profit and 
       account reserve reserve  loss account 
      £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011    61 6 148 293
Premium on allotment of ordinary shares    5 – – –
Profit after tax    – – – 264
Share-based payments capital contribution    – – 19 –
Dividends    – – – (92)
At	 31	 December	 2011	 	 	 	 66	 6	 167	 465
notes to the parent company financial statements continued 8. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Earnings available for shareholders     	 264 (29)
Dividends     	 (92) (77)
       	 172 (106)
Issue of ordinary shares     	5 12
Share-based payments capital contribution     	 19 21
Net	 movement	 in	 shareholders’	 funds     	 196 (73)
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January     	 547 620
Shareholders’	 funds	 at	 31	 December     	 743 547
9. Profit and dividends
Profit on ordinary activities after tax amounts to £264m (2010 loss of £29m).
A final dividend, declared in the previous year, of 22.0p (2010 18.7p) per share was paid during the year, amounting to £63m (2010 £54m).  
An interim dividend of 9.8p (2010 8.0p) per share was paid during the year, amounting to £29m (2010 £23m). A final dividend of 24.7p  
(2010 22.0p) per share, amounting to £71m (2010 £63m), is proposed for approval at the AGM. The proposed final dividend is payable on 
shares in issue at 23 March 2012.
The audit fee of £0.02m (2010 £0.02m) was borne by a subsidiary undertaking in both years.
10. Contingencies
Contingent liabilities of £65m (2010 £134m) in respect of guarantees of the liabilities of subsidiaries have not been provided for in the 
financial statements.
St At ement o F DiRecto RS’ ReSpon Sibilitie S
In relation to the parent company financial statements
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with 
the independent auditor’s report set out on the following page, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the 
Company financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company 
financial statements and Remuneration Report in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
The Directors are required to prepare Company financial 
statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial 
position of the Company and the financial performance of the 
Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company 
keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company and which enable them to 
ensure that the Company financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. 
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps  
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER	 INFORMATION
PARENT COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
	 n otes to the parent company financial statements and Statement of Directors’ responsibilities	 121 	 122	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
in Depen Dent AuDito R’S RepoRt t o the membe RS oF in te Rcontinent Al hotel S GRoup plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 
2011 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the 
related notes 1 to 10. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all  
the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report  
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications  
for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2011;
•   have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•   have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
•  the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters  
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•   the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with  
the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements  
of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 
31 December 2011.
Alison	 Duncan	 (Senior	 statutory	 auditor)	
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor 
London 
13 February 2012  OTHER infOR ma Ti On 	 124	 Glossary
	 125	 Shareholder 	 profiles
	 126	 Investor 	 information
	 127	 Dividend	history 	
	 127	 Five	year	history 	
	 128	 Financial 	 calendar
	128	 Contacts
	 129	 Forward-looking	statements
	 Independent auditor’s report and Other information	 123
In this section we present  
a glossary of terms used  
in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2011 
and some analyses of our 
share ownership at the  
end of 2011.
We also provide a range  
of information designed to 
be helpful to shareholders  
and contact details for the 
Company and for a number 
of service providers. 
Candlewood Suites San Antonio, US
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 	 124	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Glo SSARy
	 Adjusted  excluding the effect of exceptional items 
and any relevant tax. 
	 	 Average 	 daily	 rate  rooms revenue divided by the number of 
room nights sold. Also known as average 
room rate.
 Basic	 earnings	 per	 profit available for IHG equity holders  
 ordinary	 share	 	 divided by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
 Carbon	 Disclosure	 the CDP is a global, voluntary questionnaire  
 Project	 (CDP)	 	 which allows organisations to disclose 
their carbon emissions and steps that they 
are taking to reduce them. 
 Capital	 expenditure  purchases of property, plant and 
equipment, intangible assets, associate 
and joint venture investments and other 
financial assets.
 Cash-generating	 units  the smallest identifiable groups of assets 
that generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets, or groups of assets.
 Comparable	 RevPAR  a comparison for a grouping of hotels that 
have traded in all months in both financial 
years being compared. Principally 
excludes new hotels, hotels closed for 
major refurbishment and hotels sold in 
either of the two years.
 Contingencies  liabilities that are contingent upon the 
occurrence of one or more uncertain  
future events. 
	 Continuing 	 operations  operations not classified as discontinued. 
 Currency	 swap	 	 an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, 
each denominated in a different currency,  
for an agreed period of time.
 Derivatives  a financial instrument used to reduce risk, 
the price of which is derived from an 
underlying asset, index or rate.
	 Discontinued 	 operations  hotels or operations sold or those 
classified as held for sale when the results 
relate to a separate line of business, 
geographical area of operations, or where 
there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose  
of a separate line of business or 
geographical area of operations. 
	 Exceptional 	 items  items which are disclosed separately 
because of their size or nature.
	 Extended	 stay  hotels designed for guests staying for 
periods of time longer than a few nights  
and tending to have a higher proportion of 
suites than normal hotels (eg, Staybridge 
Suites, Candlewood Suites).
	 Franchisee  operator who uses a brand under licence 
from the brand owner (eg, IHG).
	 Franchisor  brand owner (eg, IHG) who licenses brands 
for use by operators.
	 Goodwill  the difference between the consideration 
given for a business and the total of the  
fair values of the separable assets and 
liabilities comprising that business.
	 Hedging  the reduction of risk, normally in relation  
to foreign currency or interest rate 
movements, by making offsetting 
commitments. 
	 IFRS  International Financial Reporting 
Standards.
	 Interest 	 rate	 swap  an agreement to exchange fixed for  
floating interest rate streams (or vice  
versa) on a notional principal.
 Management	 contract  a contract to operate a hotel on behalf  
of the hotel owner.
 Market	 capitalisation  the value attributed to a listed company  
by multiplying its share price by the  
number of shares in issue. 
 Midscale  hotels in the three/four star category  
(eg, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express).
 Net	 debt  borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, 
including the exchange element of the fair 
value of currency swaps hedging the 
borrowings. 
 Occupancy	 rate  rooms occupied by hotel guests,  
expressed as a percentage of rooms  
that are available.
	 Pipeline  hotels/rooms that will enter the Group’s 
system at a future date. A new hotel  
only enters the pipeline once a contract  
has been signed and the appropriate fees 
paid. In rare circumstances, a hotel will  
not open for reasons such as the financing 
being withdrawn.
	 Revenue	 per rooms revenue divided by the number of  
 available	 room room nights that are available (can be  
	 (RevPAR)  mathematically derived from occupancy  
rate multiplied by average daily rate).
	 Room	 count  number of rooms franchised, managed, 
owned or leased by IHG.
	 Rooms 	 revenue  revenue generated from the sale of  
room nights.
	 Royalty 	 revenues  rooms revenue that a franchisee pays to 
the brand owner for use of the brand name.
	 Subsidiary 	 undertaking  a company over which the Group exercises 
control.
	 System	 size  the number of hotels/rooms franchised, 
managed, owned or leased by IHG.
	 Technology 	 income  income received from hotels under 
franchise and management agreements  
for the use of IHG’s proprietary  
reservations system.
	 Total 	 gross	 revenue  total rooms revenue from franchised 
hotels and total hotel revenue from 
managed, owned and leased hotels.
	 Total 	 Shareholder	 the theoretical growth in value of a  
	 Return	 (TSR)  shareholding over a period, by reference  
to the beginning and ending share price, 
and assuming that gross dividends, 
including special dividends, are reinvested 
to purchase additional units of the equity.
	 UK	 GAAP  United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice.
	 Working 	 capital  the sum of inventories, receivables and 
payables of a trading nature, excluding 
financing items such as corporate taxation. 	 Glossary and Shareholder profiles	 125
Shareholder profile as at 31 December 201 1 by type
     Number of  Percentage of  Ordinary  Percentage of  
     shareholders total shareholders shares issued share capital
Category	 of	 shareholdings
Private individuals   49,660 94.82 19,267,960 6.63
Nominee companies   2,313 4.42 265,361,826 91.33
Limited and public limited companies   253 0.48 753,041 0.26
Other corporate bodies   136 0.26 4,673,691 1.61
Pension funds, insurance companies and banks  11 0.02 491,571 0.17
Total	 	 	 52,373	 100	 290,548,089	 100
 
 
Shareholder profile as at 31 December 201 1 by size
     Number of  Percentage of  Ordinary  Percentage of  
     shareholders total shareholders shares issued share capital
Range	 of	 shareholdings      
1 – 199   32,339 61.75 2,094,248 0.72
200 – 499   10,443 19.94 3,343,217 1.15
500 – 999   4,996 9.54 3,486,419 1.20
1,000 – 4,999   3,647 6.96 6,785,898 2.34
5,000 – 9,999   300 0.57 2,055,251 0.71
10,000 – 49,999   340 0.65 7,451,454 2.56
50,000 – 99,999   84 0.16 6,151,585 2.12
100,000 – 499,999   140 0.27 29,353,836 10.10
500,000 – 999,999   38 0.07 26,873,078 9.25
1,000,000 and above   46 0.09 202,953,103 69.85
Total	 	 	 52,373	 100	 290,548,089	 100
 
 
Shareholder profile as at 31 December 201 1 by geographical location
         Percentage of  
         issued share capital
1
Country/jurisdiction      
UK       44.2
Rest of Europe      10.8
US (including ADRs)   		 41.3
Rest of World      3.7
Total	 	 				 1 00
1  The geographical profile presented is based on an analysis of shareholders (by manager) of 40,000 shares or above where geographical ownership is known. This analysis 
only captures 90.0% of total issued share capital. Therefore, the known percentage distributions have been multiplied by 100⁄90.0 (1.111) to achieve the figures shown in the 
table above.
Sh ARehol DeR pRoFile S
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 	 126	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
in ve St oR in FoRmAt ion
 Website and electronic communication
As part of the Company’s commitment to reducing the cost  
and environmental impact of producing and distributing printed 
documents in very large quantities, IHG’s Annual Report and 
Annual Review have been made available to shareholders  
through the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors  
under financial library. 
Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their 
behalf on any poll that is to be held at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. Shareholders who hold their shares through 
CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy 
appointment service, by using the procedures described in the 
CREST Manual. 
 Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion
IHG is offering discounted hotel stays (subject to availability) for 
registered shareholders, through a dedicated, controlled access 
website. For further details please contact the Company  
Secretariat at the registered office on 01895 512 000 or email 
companysecretariat@ihg.com.
 Changes to the base cost of IHG shares
Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since 
April 2003 up to December 2011, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, 
may be found on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors 
under shareholder centre/tax information.
 Corporate Responsibility Report
IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report (updated 
quarterly) covering progress on a range of environmental, social 
and community issues. This is available on our corporate website 
and can be viewed at www.ihgplc.com/responsibility.
 Registrar
For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification  
of a shareholder’s change of address and for information on a 
range of shareholder services please contact the Company’s 
Registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2132
†
 (calls from within the UK)  
or +44 (0) 121 415 7034 (calls from outside the UK).
 Dividend services
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) for 
shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash 
dividends. For further information about the DRIP, please contact 
our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268
†
. A DRIP application form 
and information booklet are available on the Company’s website  
www.ihgplc.com/investors under shareholder centre/dividends.
Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into 
a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate  
their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of 
shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
It may be possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid 
direct to their bank account in a local currency. Charges are 
payable for this service. Further information is available at  
www.shareview.co.uk under shareholder centre/overseas  
payment service.
If you think that you have out of date dividend cheques or 
outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar  
for further information.
 Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares. For further information please 
contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244
†
.
 Share dealing services
Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares. For more 
information on this service, call 0871 384 2132
†
. They also offer a 
telephone and internet share dealing service, Shareview Dealing, 
which provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling 
shares. For telephone dealings, call 08456 037 037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings  
log on to www.shareview.co.uk.
  ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, 
the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell. Details can be 
obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.sharegift.org  
or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
 Missing shareholders
Working with ProSearch (an asset reunification company), we 
continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact 
details up-to-date. We have funds waiting to be claimed and are 
committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful 
owners. For further details please contact ProSearch on  
01732 741 411 or email info@prosearchassets.com.
 Shareholder security
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas-based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what 
often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK 
investments. These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler 
rooms’. More detailed information on this or similar activity can  
be found on the Financial Services Authority website  
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will be included in Company mailings.
 American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and 
traded under the symbol ‘IHG’.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share. All enquiries regarding 
ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed 
to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our authorised depositary bank (details 
shown on page 128).
 Form 20-F 
The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the US and files with 
the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F. The Form 20-F can be 
found on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under 
shareholder centre/ADR holders or by visiting the SEC’s website 
www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.
 †Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using  
a BT landline. Other network provider costs may vary.  	 investor information, Dividend history and Five year history	 127
 Share price information 
The latest share price is available in the financial press. Further details of the share price may be found on the Company’s website  
www.ihgplc.com/investors.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Source: Datastream InterContinental Hotels Group PLC – Share price FTSE 100 – Index 
Share price 2011: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 
(pence)
1,500
1,400
1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
Divi Den D hiSt oRy
The table below details the interim and final dividends per share (pence) and per ADR (cents) paid by IHG since 2003.
   Interim dividend  Final dividend  Total dividend      
   pence cents pence cents pence cents
2011	 9.8	 16.00	 24.7	 39.00	 34.5	 55.00
2010 8.00 12.80 22.00 35.20 30.00 48.00
2009 7.30 12.20 18.70 29.20 26.00 41.40
2008* 6.40 12.20 20.20 29.20 26.60 41.40
2007 5.70 11.50 14.90 29.20 20.60 40.70
2006 5.10 9.60 13.30 25.90 18.40 35.50
2005 4.60 8.10 10.70 18.70 15.30 26.80
2004 4.30 7.70 10.00 19.10 14.30 26.80
2003  4.05 6.80 9.45 17.40 13.50 24.20
(Excludes special dividends and capital returns)
*  IHG changed the reporting currency of its Group accounts from sterling to US dollars effective from the half-year results as at 
30 June 2008. Starting with the interim dividend for 2008, all dividends have first been determined in US dollars and converted 
into sterling immediately before announcement.
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Five ye AR hi St oRy
    2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
    Total Total Total Total Total 
    operations operations operations operations operations 
    $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue	 	 1,768 1,628 1,538 1,897 1,850*
Operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items	 559 444 363 549 491**
Profit/(loss)	 before	 tax	 	 532 397 (64) 316 461
Basic earnings per share from  
total operations (cents) 	 159.2 101.7 74.7 91.3 144.7
Adjusted earnings per share from  
total operations (cents) 	 130.4 98.6 102.8 120.9 97.2
 * 2007 includes $33m from discontinued operations. 
** 2007 includes $3m from discontinued operations. 	 128	 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
For further investor information visit www.ihgplc.com/investors
cont Act S
Registered office
Broadwater Park  
Denham  
Buckinghamshire  
UB9 5HR
Telephone +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax +44 (0) 1895 512 101
www.ihgplc.com
For general information  
about the Group’s business 
please contact the Corporate 
Affairs department at the  
above address. For all other 
enquiries please contact the 
Company Secretariat at the 
above address.
Registrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing  
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA 
Telephone  0871 384 2132*
†
  
(UK calls) 
  +44 (0) 121 415 7034  
(international calls) 
www.shareview.co.uk 
 
 *For those with hearing difficulties  
a text phone is available on  
0871 384 2255
†
 for UK callers with 
compatible equipment.
	 †
Telephone calls to these numbers are 
currently charged at 8p per minute 
if using a BT landline. Other network 
provider costs may vary.
ADR depositary
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St. Paul  
MN 55164-0504  
USA
Telephone  +1 800 990 1135  
(US callers – toll 
free) 
  +1 651 453 2128  
(non-US callers) 
Email: 
jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
www.adr.com
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Goldman Sachs
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Investment bankers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Citi 
Goldman Sachs
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus  
Deringer LLP
Priority Club Rewards
If you wish to enquire about, or 
to join Priority Club Rewards, 
IHG’s loyalty programme for 
frequent travellers, please  
visit www.priorityclub.com  
or telephone: 
0871 226 1111
∞
 (in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa)  
(toll charges apply)
+1 888 211 9874 (in US and 
Canada) (toll free)
+1 800 272 9273 (in Mexico)  
(toll free)
+1 801 975 3013 (Spanish)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+1 801 975 3063 (English)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+63 2 857 8788 (from most 
countries in Asia Pacific)  
(toll charges apply)
	
	
∞
Telephone calls to this number are 
charged at 10p per minute. Standard 
network rates apply. Calls from 
mobiles will be higher.
Fin Anci Al cAl en DAR
     2011
Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share (16.0 cents per ADR)  7 October
Financial year end   31 December
     2012
Preliminary announcement of annual results  14 February
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Ex-dividend date 21 March
   Record date 23 March
Announcement of first quarter results   9 May
Annual General Meeting  25 May
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Payment date 1 June
Announcement of interim results   7 August
Interim dividend:  Payment date October
Announcement of third quarter results   6 November
Financial year end   31 December
    2013
Preliminary announcement of annual results   February  117  PARen T CoMPAny FIn An CIAL STATe Men TS
 118  Parent company balance sheet
 119  n otes to the parent company financial statements
 121  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 122  Independent auditor’s report to the members
 7  BUSIne SS Rev Iew
 8  Industry overview
 9  o ur strategy
 13  Measuring our success
 13  w here we compete
 14  How we win – Delivering Great 
Hotels Guests Love
 15  Group performance
 17  Regional performance
 25  Central
 25 System Fund
 25  o ther financial information
 27  o ur people
 31  Corporate responsibility
 34  Risk management
 41  THe Bo ARD, Sen IoR MAn AGe Men T An D THe IR Re SPon SIBILITIe S
 42  The Board of Directors
 43  o ther members of the e xecutive Committee
 44  Directors’ report
 46  Corporate governance
 52  Audit Committee report
 53 n omination Committee report
 54  Remuneration report
 1 ove Rv Iew
 2  Headlines
 3  Chairman’s statement
 4  Chief e xecutive’s review
 5   Message from the  
IHG o wners Association
 6  Great brands
 70  Statements of Directors’  
  responsibilities
 71  Independent auditor’s report  
  to the members
 72  Group income statement
 73  Group statement of  
  comprehensive income
 74  Group statement  
  of changes in equity
 76  Group statement  
  of financial position
 77  Group statement of cash flows
 78  Accounting policies
 84  n otes to the Group  
  financial statements
 69  GRoUP FIn An CIAL STATe Men TS
 123 oTHe R In FoRMATIon
 124  Glossary
 125  Shareholder profiles
 126  Investor information
 127  Dividend history
 127  Five year history
 128 Financial calendar
 128 Contacts
 129  Forward-looking statements
w e operate 4,480 hotels and  
658,348 rooms internationally
w e franchise, manage and own hotels  
in nearly 100 countries and territories
Annual General Meeting:  
25 May 2012
	 Financial calendar, Contacts and Forward-looking statements	 129
Both the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2011 and the Annual Review and 
Summary Financial Statement 2011 contain 
certain forward-looking statements as defined 
under US legislation (Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) with respect  
to the financial condition, results of operations 
and business of InterContinental Hotels Group 
and certain plans and objectives of the Board of 
Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
with respect thereto. Such statements include, 
but are not limited to, statements made in the 
Chairman’s statement and in the Chief 
Executive’s review. These forward-looking 
statements can be identified by the fact that they 
do not relate only to historical or current facts. 
Forward-looking statements often use words 
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, 
‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, or other words of 
similar meaning. These statements are based  
on assumptions and assessments made by 
InterContinental Hotels Group’s management in 
light of their experience and their perception of 
historical trends, current conditions, expected 
future developments and other factors they 
believe to be appropriate. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements  
are inherently predictive, speculative and involve 
risk and uncertainty. There are a number of 
factors that could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those 
expressed in, or implied by, such forward-
looking statements, including, but not limited to: 
the risks involved with the Group’s reliance on 
the reputation of its brands and the protection of 
its intellectual property rights; the risks related 
to identifying, securing and retaining franchise 
and management agreements; the risks of the 
effect of political and economic developments; 
the ability to acquire and retain the right people 
and skills and capability to manage growth and 
change; the risk of events that adversely impact 
domestic or international travel; the risks 
involved in the Group’s reliance upon its 
proprietary reservations system and increased 
competition in reservations infrastructure;  
the risks in relation to changing technology and 
systems; the risks of the hotel industry supply 
and demand cycle; the risks related to corporate 
responsibility; the risk of litigation; the risks 
associated with the Group’s ability to maintain 
adequate insurance; the risks associated with 
the Group’s financial stability and its ability to 
borrow and satisfy debt covenants; compliance 
with existing and changing regulations across 
numerous countries, territories and 
jurisdictions; the risks related to information 
security; and the risks associated with funding 
the defined benefits under its pension plans.
The main factors that could affect the business 
and financial results are described in the 
Business review of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2011 and also in the 
Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F.
FoRw ARD-LooKInG STATeMen TS
Designed	 and	 produced	 	
by	 Corporate Edge 
Print	 management	 by	 	
HH Associates
Printed	 by	 Royle Print
BUSINESS	 REVIEW
THE	 BOARD,	 	
SENIOR	 MANAGEMENT	 AND	
THEIR	 RESPONSIBILITIES
GROUP	 FINANCIAL	
STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PARENT	 COMPANY	 	
FINANCIAL	 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
¤
Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 
received the highest numerical 
score among mid-scale full 
service and upscale hotels, 
respectively, in the proprietary 
J.D. Power and Associates 2011 
North America Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. 
Study based on responses  
from 61,313 guests measuring  
6 mid-scale full service and  
11 upscale hotels and measures 
opinions of guests who stayed  
in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011. 
Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and 
perceptions of consumers 
surveyed June 2010-May 2011. 
Your experiences may vary.  
Visit jdpower.com.
This Report is printed  
on 9lives 80 Silk which is  
made up of 60% FSC post-
consumer recycled fibre,  
20% pre-consumer recycled 
fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 
from FSC managed forests. 
Our printer is also FSC and 
Carbon Neutral accredited. InterContinental Hotels Group PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Crowne Plaza Gurgaon, India
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
Broadwater Park, Denham, 
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR 
United Kingdom
Telephone:  +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax:  +44 (0) 1895 512 1 01
www.ihgplc.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
Ann UAL RePoRT 
An D FIn An CIAL  
STATeMen TS 2011 Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
Broadwater Park, Denham, 
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR 
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax:  +44 (0) 1895 512 1 01
www.ihgplc.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com InterContinental Beijing Beichen, China
Ann UAL Rev Iew  
AnD S UMMARy 
FInAn CIAL  
STATeMen T 2011 	 Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts	 57
  Ove RvI ew
	 2 Headlines
 3 Chairman’s statement
 4  Chief e xecutive’s review
 
  GRe AT BRAn DS
 6 Delivering great brands
 8 InterContinental Hotels & Resorts
 10 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts
 12  Hotel Indigo
 14 The Holiday Inn brand family
 18 Staybridge Suites
 20  Candlewood Suites
 22 Priority Club Rewards
  HOw we OPeRATe
 23  Our system, Our business model  
and Our set up
 24  Finance
 25  Message from the  
IHG Owners Association
 26 People
 28 Technology
 30 Business reputation
 32 Corporate responsibility
  w HeRe we OPeRATe
 34 Global overview
 36 The Americas
 37 e urope
 38 Asia, Middle east and Africa 
 39 Greater China
  FACTS An D FIGUReS
 40 Summary financial statement
 44  Our senior leadership team
 46  Summary Directors’ report
 47 Corporate governance
 48 Summary remuneration report
 56 Investor information
 57 Financial calendar and Contacts
w e operate 4,480 hotels and  
658,348 rooms internationally
w e franchise, manage and own hotels  
in nearly 100 countries and territories
Annual General Meeting:  
25 May 2012
WHERE	WE	OPERATE HOW	WE	OPERATE GREAT	BRANDS OVERVIEW
FInAn CIAL CALenDAR
     2011
Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share (16.0 cents per ADR)  7 October
Financial year end   31 December
     2012
Preliminary announcement of annual results  14 February
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Ex-dividend date 21 March
   Record date 23 March
Announcement of first quarter results   9 May
Annual General Meeting  25 May
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Payment date 1 June
Announcement of interim results   7 August
Interim dividend:  Payment date October
Announcement of third quarter results   6 November
Financial year end   31 December
    2013
Preliminary announcement of annual results   February
COn TACTS
Registered office
Broadwater Park, Denham  
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR
Telephone +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax +44 (0) 1895 512 101
www.ihgplc.com
For general information  
about the Group’s business 
please contact the Corporate 
Affairs department at the  
above address. For all other 
enquiries please contact the 
Company Secretariat at the 
above address.
Registrar
Equiniti, Aspect House 
Spencer Road, Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone  0871 384 2132*
†
  
(UK calls) 
  +44 (0) 121 415 7034  
(international calls) 
www.shareview.co.uk 
 
 *For those with hearing difficulties  
a text phone is available on  
0871 384 2255
†
 for UK callers with 
compatible equipment.
	 †
Telephone calls to these numbers are 
currently charged at 8p per minute 
if using a BT landline. Other network 
provider costs may vary.
ADR depositary
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504  
USA
Telephone  +1 800 990 1135  
(US callers – toll free) 
  +1 651 453 2128  
(non-US callers) 
Email: 
jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
www.adr.com
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Goldman Sachs
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Investment bankers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Citi 
Goldman Sachs
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus  
Deringer LLP
Priority Club Rewards
If you wish to enquire about,  
or to join Priority Club Rewards, 
IHG’s loyalty programme for 
frequent travellers, please  
visit www.priorityclub.com  
or telephone: 
0871 226 1111
∞
 (in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa)  
(toll charges apply)
+1 888 211 9874 (in US and 
Canada) (toll free)
+1 800 272 9273 (in Mexico)  
(toll free)
+1 801 975 3013 (Spanish)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+1 801 975 3063 (English)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+63 2 857 8788 (from most 
countries in Asia Pacific)  
(toll charges apply)
	
	 ∞
Telephone calls to this number are 
charged at 10p per minute. Standard 
network rates apply. Calls from 
mobiles will be higher.
Designed	and	produced		
by	Corporate	Edge	
Print	management	by		
HH	Associates
Printed	by	Royle	Print
This Report is printed  
on 9lives 80 Silk which is  
made up of 60% FSC post-
consumer recycled fibre,  
20% pre-consumer recycled 
fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 
from FSC managed forests. 
Our printer is also FSC and 
Carbon Neutral accredited.
For further investor information visit www.ihgplc.com/investors
¤
Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 
received the highest numerical 
score among mid-scale full 
service and upscale hotels, 
respectively, in the proprietary 
J.D. Power and Associates 2011 
North America Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. 
Study based on responses  
from 61,313 guests measuring  
6 mid-scale full service and  
11 upscale hotels and measures 
opinions of guests who stayed  
in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011. 
Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and 
perceptions of consumers 
surveyed June 2010-May 2011. 
Your experiences may vary.  
Visit jdpower.com.
FACTS AND FIGURES 	 	 1
We’re a global hotel company, operating seven  
highly-respected brands internationally.
Our ambition is to become one of the world’s great 
companies by creating Great Hotels Guests Love. 
With 4,480 hotels worldwide, we know hospitality.
At the heart of our culture is a commitment  
to acting responsibly in everything we do.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
Crowne Plaza Lijiang, China Holiday Inn Phuket, Thailand
	 2	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
Headlines
Total gross revenue
from hotels in IHG’s system  
up 8% to $20.2bn
*
Revenue up 9%
†
 to $1,768m
Operating profit 
before exceptional items:
Group $559m
†
 (2010 $444m)
The Americas $451m
†
 (2010 $369m)
Europe $104m (2010 $78m)
Asia, Middle East and Africa  
$84m
†
 (2010 $82m)
Greater China $67m (2010 $54m)
Revenue per available room
∞
 
up 6.2%
Total number of rooms operating  
under IHG brands 658,348  
(4,480 hotels)
7m new Priority Club 
Rewards members added  
(63m members in total)
69% of rooms revenue delivered 
through IHG’s channels or by  
Priority Club Rewards members 
direct to hotel
Total dividend 
up 15% at 55.0¢  
(sterling equivalent of 34.5p)
*
	Total 	 room	 revenue	 from	 franchised	 	
hotels	 and	 total	 hotel	 revenue	 from	
managed,	 owned	 and	 leased	 hotels	 	
(not	 all	 attributable	 to	 IHG).
†
	 Includes 	 two	 significant	 liquidated	
damages	 receipts	 in	 2011;	 $10m	 in	 	
The	 Americas	 and	 $6m	 in	 Asia,	 	
Middle	 East	 and	 Africa.
∞
	 Total 	 system	 rooms	 revenue	 divided	 	
by	 the	 number	 of	 room	 nights	 available. PeRFoRmAnce 
Revenue increased nine per cent to 
$1.8 billion, with operating profit before 
exceptional items of $559 million, up 26 per 
cent. Adjusted earnings per share increased 
32 per cent from 98.6 cents to 130.4 cents. 
The Board is recommending an 11 per 
cent increase to the final dividend for 2011, 
taking it to 39.0 cents. This will give a 
full-year dividend of 55.0 cents per share, 
15 per cent higher than 2010. This converts  
to a sterling full-year dividend of 34.5 pence, 
up 15 per cent compared with 2010. 
Subject to shareholder approval, the final 
dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012.
BoARd
On 30 June 2011 Andy Cosslett stepped 
down from his role as Chief Executive of 
IHG. We were very sorry to see Andy leave 
and I would like to thank him for his 
outstanding leadership during his six-year 
tenure. Richard Solomons was appointed 
Chief Executive on 1 July 2011. Formerly 
Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Commercial Development, Richard has 
been a member of the Board since IHG 
listed as an independent company in 2003. 
He has a proven track record as a business 
leader and a deep understanding of IHG 
drawn from his time in a number of senior 
roles and he has impressed me greatly in 
his first six months as Chief Executive. 
Taking over from Richard as Chief 
Financial Officer is Tom Singer, who joined 
us on 26 September 2011 from global 
healthcare group Bupa, where he had 
been Group Finance Director since 2008. 
His broad commercial and international 
experience makes him an ideal addition  
to the team, and I am pleased to welcome 
him to the Board as an Executive Director. 
On 13 June 2011, Jim Abrahamson, 
President, The Americas and an Executive 
Director of IHG since 1 August 2010, left the 
Company to take up a role as the CEO of an 
independent US lodging company. He was 
succeeded by Kirk Kinsell, who has held  
a number of senior leadership positions  
at IHG, including President, Europe,  
Middle East and Africa, and has been an 
Executive Director since 1 August 2010. 
I am pleased to welcome three additional 
new Board members to IHG. Tracy Robbins 
was promoted to Executive Director on 
9 August 2011 having been an Executive 
Committee member since joining IHG in 
December 2005. She retains her 
responsibility for global talent 
management, leadership development, 
employee reward and group operations 
support. This appointment recognises 
both Tracy’s exceptional capabilities and 
the critical importance of attracting, 
developing and retaining top talent as we 
implement our ambitious expansion plans.
We made two Non-Executive Director 
appointments during the year. Dale 
Morrison, formerly President and CEO  
of McCain Foods Limited, joined the 
Board on 1 June 2011 and on 1 July 2011 
Luke Mayhew joined as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, a role he has 
fulfilled at Brambles Limited since 2005. 
He replaces Ralph Kugler who has retired 
from the Board after over eight years at IHG. 
I would like to welcome both Dale and Luke 
to the Board and thank Ralph for his highly 
valuable contribution to the Board and in 
particular his exemplary chairmanship  
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Fin Anci Al PoSition And 
Sh AReholde R Retu RnS
Careful control over cash has enabled us 
to reduce our overall net debt position by 
$205 million to $538 million. In November 
2011 we refinanced our bank debt, putting 
in place a five-year $1.07 billion facility, 
providing certainty over funding until 
November 2016. No returns above normal 
dividends were made to shareholders in 
2011. Total funds returned since March 
2004 amount to more than $6 billion.
outlook
The hard work of our people is central  
to IHG’s success. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank everyone in IHG for 
their focus, dedication and commitment 
during the year.
2012 is likely to be a year dominated by 
economic and political uncertainty in 
several geographies. IHG has a business 
model which has proven to be resilient,  
a wide geographic spread and a strong 
balance sheet. This means we are 
confident in our ability to continue to 
deliver strong results.
David Webster 
chairman
	 h eadlines and chairman’s statement	3
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
“ih G has a business model which 
has proven to be resilient, a wide 
geographic spread and a strong 
balance sheet, meaning we are 
confident in our ability to 
continue to deliver strong results.”
 David Webster
 chairman
chAiRmA n’S StA tement
dear Shareholder 	 4	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
One of my immediate priorities on being 
appointed Chief Executive was to ensure  
that IHG was optimally structured to derive 
maximum benefit from our scale and 
expertise in each geographic region. As a 
result we have reorganised the business into 
four regions: The Americas; Europe; Asia, 
Middle East and Africa; and Greater China.
dRivin G hi Gh-qu Ality GRowth
The next phase of IHG’s journey will be 
characterised by high-quality growth, 
measured by gains in both market share 
and margins. Where appropriate, and as 
opportunities arise, we will invest our 
free cash flow in the business to 
accelerate this growth and raise the 
awareness of our brands.
We will continue to drive market share  
in two ways. We will use our powerful 
revenue systems and innovations to drive 
growing revenues into IHG branded hotels. 
We will also add new and rebranded hotels to 
our system. In 2011 we delivered 6.2 per cent 
global RevPAR growth, beating the industry 
in key markets, such as the US and Greater 
China. We grew our system size by two per 
cent in the year and our industry-leading  
13 per cent of the active new-build global 
pipeline demonstrates our ability to continue 
to increase our share of room supply.
We will achieve progressive and sustainable 
margin growth and higher returns for 
owners by capitalising on benefits of scale 
and efficiency. Our fee-based margin was 
up nearly five percentage points in 2011, 
and we expect to continue to drive up our 
margins over time whilst continuing to 
reinvest in the business.
There are three clear priorities we have 
set to achieve our growth strategy and 
deliver Great Hotels Guests Love:
1. PReFe RRed BRAnd S
In a competitive world, preferred brands 
are a prerequisite to deliver market  
share growth. Our brands are already 
some of the best recognised in the 
industry, but in order to drive meaningful 
increases in share, we have to make 
them work harder.
The Holiday Inn relaunch continues to 
drive results for both IHG and our owners. 
In 2011, the brand once again grew its 
industry segment premium and for the 
first time ever was awarded ‘Highest in 
Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale  
Full Service Hotel Chains’ in the coveted 
J.D. Power and Associates
¤
 (see page 57) 
2011 North American Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. We will keep 
improving the experience for guests and 
building brand awareness. In 2012 
Holiday Inn is the official hotel provider to 
the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, which will also coincide with the 
brand’s 60th birthday, so we have plenty 
of opportunity to talk about the brand to 
existing and future guests.
We are now applying the same approach 
we used with Holiday Inn to deliver the 
Crowne Plaza repositioning programme. 
Crowne Plaza has been a great success 
story for IHG and is already the world’s  
fourth largest full-service upscale hotel 
brand, generating $3.9 billion in total gross 
revenues per annum. It does suffer from 
some inconsistencies, however, especially 
in North America, and a three-phase, 
multi-year programme will address this, 
raising all Crowne Plaza hotels to the same 
standard around the world.
We also see the opportunity to leverage 
the value of the IHG family of brands 
through select partnerships. The first 
chie F executive’ S Review
our focus is on driving high-quality growth. we will achieve this by further strengthening our 
existing brands, launching new brands and ensuring our hotels are known for industry-leading 
guest experiences delivered by talented people and best-in-class delivery systems. t he global 
economy remained uncertain throughout 2011, but the strength of ih G’s preferred brands, 
underpinned by our global systems and scale, drove good growth in revenue and operating profits.
“the next phase of ih G’s journey  
will be characterised by  
high-quality growth, measured  
by gains in both market share  
and margins. where appropriate,  
and as opportunities arise, we  
will invest our free cash flow in  
the business to accelerate this  
growth and raise the awareness  
of our brands.”
 Richard Solomons
 chief e xecutive 	 chief executive’s review	5
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
InterContinental Alliance Resort opened 
during 2011, we continue to expand 
Holiday Inn Club Vacations and we 
entered into a joint venture to launch  
the Holiday Inn Express brand in India. 
In 2012 we will launch two new brands  
to exploit untapped profitable market 
segments, in the midscale segment in 
the US and in the upper upscale segment 
in China. We have had a significant amount 
of interest from our owners in relation to 
these new brands and are very excited 
about the opportunities they will bring.
2. tA lented Peo Ple
Our brands represent a promise to our 
guests. It is our people who deliver that 
promise and bring each brand to life.  
So aligning all 345,000 people working in 
our hotels and corporate offices around 
the world as brand ambassadors is 
critical to our success. 
We need our people to deliver consistent 
brand experiences to our guests which 
requires significant effort and innovation 
and the engagement of our third-party 
hotel owners. This is a big task but we 
have made great progress over the past 
few years with an innovative and effective 
approach. We have launched our suite of 
‘People Tools’ which help our owners and 
managers to hire, train, involve and 
recognise the best employees for their 
brands, and more recently piloted a 
unique approach to revitalise the ‘back  
of house’ space in our hotels. 
Our efforts in this area have been 
rewarded and for the first time IHG  
has been placed in Fortune’s ‘100 Best 
Companies to Work For’ in the US as  
well as winning a host of other awards. 
3. BeSt-in-cl ASS delive Ry
We continue to leverage our global scale 
and the power of our systems to drive a 
greater share of industry demand into 
our hotels. We do this by ensuring our 
distribution channels are aligned with  
the needs of our guests, whilst driving the 
most profitable revenues for our owners. 
In 2011, 69 per cent of total rooms revenue 
was booked through IHG’s channels or 
direct to hotels by our 63 million Priority 
Club Rewards members.
Our innovations continue to lead the 
industry. During the year we introduced our 
Best Price Guarantee, designed to drive 
more guests to book through our direct 
websites. We are also a founding member 
of roomkey.com, the first industry-owned 
online hotels search engine, launched in 
January 2012, and our mobile apps now 
generate close to $150 million annually 
from a standing start two years ago.
Looking ahead, whilst there is considerable 
uncertainty in some markets of the world, 
the hotel industry is well-positioned to 
benefit from long-term trends with 
continuing demand in emerging markets 
and China in particular. We remain 
confident in IHG’s ability to deliver 
high-quality growth through gains in both 
market share and margins, due to our 
preferred brands, outstanding people, 
geographic diversity, robust balance 
sheet and resilient business model.
 
 
 
Richard Solomons 
chief executive
crowne Plaza Gurgaon, india
intercontinental Park l ane, l ondon, uk
intercontinental century city, chengdu, china
Preferred
brands
Talented 
people
Best-in-class
delivery
INVEST IN GROWTH
Responsible business practice
Sustainable margin growth Grow market share
DELIVERING 
GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE 	 6	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
deliveR in G GReAt BRA nd S 
t he com Bin Ation o F StR on G BRAnd S, the P eo Ple who  
BRin G them to liFe A nd ou R innov Ative SyS tem S Set S  
uS APARt FR om ou R com Petito RS. it cReA te S ReAl vA lue 
FoR ih G And e Ach o F ou R BRAnd S And PR ovide S hi Ghe R 
Retu RnS FoR ou R owne RS.
delive Rin G PRoFit ABle Revenue S
Our brands are underpinned by some  
of the most powerful hotel systems in  
the world. These include our reservations 
channels, branded websites, regional 
sales teams and the world’s largest 
loyalty programme, Priority Club 
Rewards, whose 63 million members  
are some of our most valued customers. 
In 2011, these revenue systems delivered 
69 per cent of our total rooms revenue 
with a double-digit percentage rate 
premium versus business booked 
directly with hotels. This drives better 
returns for our owners and frees their 
time to focus on delivering the branded 
experience to our guests. 
Att RActin G Glo BAl cu Stome RS
IHG leverages our global scale to generate 
demand for our hotels. Our worldwide 
sales teams manage relationships  
with over 3,500 of the world’s largest 
companies to ensure IHG brands are 
their preferred travel partners. For 
customers who book travel themselves, 
IHG buys over seven million keywords  
in 15 languages to ensure our hotel 
brands rank high in the display across 
different search engines like Google  
and Bing. And our consumer marketing 
campaigns generate billions of customer 
impressions to drive awareness and 
consideration of our brands.
“Putting brands at the heart 
of our thinking means giving 
guests what they want in  
a way that delivers strong 
returns for our owners. it’s  
a fundamental part of the  
ih G legacy we’re creating.”
 Steve Sickel
 interim Global head of Sales  
and distribution
“we have a history of developing 
distinctive brands and defining 
industry segments – because 
we know strong brands really 
matter to our guests, our 
owners and the performance  
of our business.”
 Eric Pearson
 interim head of Global Brands 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	7
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
the RiGht BRAnd At the  
RiGht PRice
IHG’s direct reservation channels – our 
websites and call centres – are among 
the best in the industry. Collectively,  
they service over 270 million inbound 
customer leads and help place our 
customers into the right brand for their 
travel occasion. Always looking to 
improve, we launched our ‘Best Price 
Guarantee’, the industry’s most powerful 
online price assurance. And in response 
to changing customer behaviour, we  
have led the industry in mobile apps  
so customers can access our brands 
conveniently from their mobile devices. 
IHG was the first hotel company to have 
mobile apps for all four major platforms 
– iPhone/iPad, Android, BlackBerry and 
Microsoft Windows – increasing our 
annual mobile revenues from $2.4 million 
to over $148 million in just two years. 
Finally, our revenue management tools 
enable our hotels to sell the right price to 
the right customer. These tools include 
our award-winning Price Optimization 
system, which helps hotels make better 
pricing and yielding decisions, leading  
to a 4.3 per cent increase in revenue per 
available room (RevPAR). 
BRin Gin G cu Stome RS BAck
The first and largest hotel loyalty 
programme in the world, Priority Club 
Rewards drives greater preference for 
our brands and higher guest return 
rates. In fact, the programme has been 
named Global Traveler magazine’s  
‘Best Hotel Rewards Program’ for  
seven consecutive years (see page 22).
GReAt hotel S Gue St S love 
Great brands are at the heart of Great 
Hotels Guests Love. As we have proved 
with the Holiday Inn relaunch (see page 
14), strong brands with a unique voice 
ultimately lead to rate growth. 
Guests who know what our brands stand 
for, connect with them emotionally and 
enjoy a consistent experience are more 
likely to stay with us again – three times 
more likely, according to J.D. Power and 
Associates. 
Delighted guests are also more likely to 
pay a premium for a hotel experience. 
That is why, although we already have 
strong brands, we need to continue our 
investment in defining and refining the 
experience of each of our brands and the 
segments they occupy. 
The guest satisfaction awards we are 
winning shows that the work we do to 
refresh our brands is reaching the hearts 
and minds of our guests. 
BRAnd ReFReShment 
To achieve our Vision of becoming one  
of the great companies of the world we 
need to bring our brands to life in every 
aspect of our business, from recruitment  
and service to product innovation, 
corporate responsibility and the way  
we communicate with guests when we 
take a booking. 
To make that happen we have dedicated 
guest experience and design teams 
working to bring innovative products and 
services to all our brands. We have our 
people, every one of them an ambassador 
for our brands. We also have our Brand 
Plans to Win, which help us clarify our 
brand proposition (what it stands for,  
who it’s designed for and how it makes 
our guests feel), brand experience and 
brand priorities. 
The following pages set out some of the 
ways we are revitalising our brands in 
order to make them stronger and more 
distinctive – and to make sure they 
deliver a recognisable experience time 
and time again. 
These include The Hub at Holiday Inn;  
our strategy to reposition Crowne Plaza; 
telling the neighbourhood story of Hotel 
Indigo with a new approach to food and 
beverages; and reflecting the social feel 
of our evening reception at Staybridge 
Suites by serving a range of more 
informal food. 
We have also repositioned our Priority 
Club Rewards scheme, giving it a new 
creative look and providing even better 
value for members.
Page 8 Page 10 Page 12 Page 14 Page 18 Page 20 oPen And on the wAy
In total, we celebrated six openings 
worldwide. Of these, the InterContinental 
Moscow-Tverskaya marked the brand’s 
return to Russia after a decade’s absence. 
We opened a hotel in Buenos Aires, 
Argentina and a new property in Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia. 
Our rapid growth continued in China 
where we welcomed guests to hotels  
in the cities of Shijiazhuang, Wuxi  
and Tangshan. 
The year’s 12 signings included 
properties for Zhengzhou, Chengdu, 
Guangzhou, Foshan, Shunde and Sancha 
in Greater China.
t he intercontinental Porto-Palacio das cardosas 
opened in July. Set in a 200 year old renovated palace, 
it’s the first international hotel in the historic city  
of Porto.
ReSoRtS GA in momentum
It was a year of major resort activity  
for our five-star brand. We signed an 
InterContinental in Koh Samui, Thailand 
and prepared to cut the ribbon at the 
InterContinental Danang Resort,  
Danang City, Vietnam in May 2012. 
In China, the InterContinental One 
Thousand Island Lake Resort, Xianshan 
Peninsula, Hangzhou opened under  
our management.
Alli Ance tA ke S oFF
InterContinental Alliance Resorts in  
The Americas officially launched when 
The Venetian
®
 and The Palazzo
®
 resorts, 
owned by Las Vegas Sands, joined our 
system. The Montelucia Resort and  
Spa in Scottsdale, Arizona also joined  
the programme, which offers more 
landmark resort locations to our 
customers and enables guests to earn 
Priority Club Rewards when booking 
through our channels.
ReSPectin G And PRotectin G  
ou R de Stin Ation S
Following the success of our first 
Responsible Business Day in 2010, we 
hosted a Responsible Business Week as 
part of our partnership with National 
Geographic’s Center for Sustainable 
Destinations. InterContinental hotels 
worldwide organised projects to help 
their destinations remain viable and 
appealing for future generations. Among 
them, InterContinental Fiji Golf Resort  
& Spa raised $35,000 for a kindergarten 
building; InterContinental Doha arranged 
a beach clean-up to improve the habitat 
for migratory birds; and hotels in China 
paid homage to the 17 cities where our 
hotels are located, through a ‘Preserving 
City Memories’ theme.
un Riv Alled in Side R knowled Ge 
Many of our guests want to feel like 
locals rather than tourists when they 
travel and choose InterContinental 
because they know they can count on  
our world-class concierge service. 
Our unique concierge destination videos 
and our Concierge Insider Guide iPad app 
have received over 5.5 million views on 
our website and on YouTube. In 2011  
we also launched the InterContinental 
Kitchen Cookbook iPad app, featuring 
recipes from our chefs, so that guests 
can recreate local dishes back home. For 
the third year running, InterContinental 
Hotels & Resorts was recognised as  
the ‘World’s Leading Hotel Brand’ by the 
World Travel Awards and many of our 
hotels were recognised by industry-
leading publications.
 
	 8	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
we’ve been on the international scene for over 60 years so no-one knows the world like we do. 
we love to share our knowledge with our guests and they love our understated service and 
style. located in more than 60 countries, we know that well-travelled, affluent guests want to be 
connected to what’s special about a destination. every team member shares their local knowledge 
so that guests can enjoy authentic experiences and make the most of their time with us. 
in the know 	 more 	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	9
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
AT YOUR SIDE SERVICE
The	 people	 who	 bring	 our	 brands	 	
to	 life	 every	 day	 play	 a	 vital	 role	 	
in	 delivering	 a	 first-rate	 guest	
experience.	 To	 help	 our	 owners	 	
and	 managers	 hire,	 train,	 involve	 	
and	 recognise	 the	 right	 people,	 in	
2011	 we	 developed	 brand-orientated	
support	 and	 a	 new	 suite	 of	 tools	 –	
including	 recruitment	 and	 advertising	
guidelines	 and	 job	 descriptions.
InterContinental Boston, US
 	 	 	 	Hotels 	 in	 	
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  52  17,598 5
Europe 30 9,664 5
AMEA  64 20,425  19
Greater China 23  9,991  22
Total  169  57,598 51
www.intercontinental.com inte RnAtion Al GRowth SPuRt 
Having nearly doubled in size since 2004, 
Crowne Plaza is the world’s fourth 
largest full-service upscale hotel brand.
This year we opened 30 properties, 
including the Crowne Plazas Istanbul – 
Asia, Turkey; Beijing Chaoyang U-Town, 
China; and Tuxpan, Mexico. 
We debuted in St Petersburg, Russia  
as well as Danang City, Vietnam and 
opened our first UK resort, Crowne Plaza 
Colchester Five Lakes, near Maldon  
in Essex.
Crowne Plaza Albuquerque, New Mexico 
– formerly a Hilton hotel – re-branded 
after a $14 million renovation.
Beijing Parkview w uzhou, china
FReShen uP, move uP, Shine
The worldwide repositioning of Crowne 
Plaza is a top priority for our business. 
With a multi-year journey ahead, we’ve 
implemented a clear, three-phase 
approach defined as Freshen Up,  
Move Up and Shine. 
In 2011 we began to ‘Freshen Up’ our 
hotels, especially in The Americas, by 
improving product quality and consistency, 
driving revenue and rolling out a new 
brand identity with a fresh look and feel. 
We’ll continue this focus in 2012 and go 
even further by enhancing the guest 
experience with a new, brand-specific 
training programme.
We will ‘Move Up’ in 2013 by focusing on 
our main target consumer and increasing 
our presence in key markets. IHG will 
look for opportunities to invest capital  
to make sure we continue our growth 
story and have the right hotels in the  
right markets.
In the final ‘Shine’ phase we will 
announce new and innovative brand 
hallmarks that will set us apart from 
competitors. These hallmarks will be 
globally relevant and designed to attract 
a greater share of the market for 
ambitious professional travellers. 
FiRSt choice FoR t RAvel Buye RS
For the second year in a row, Crowne 
Plaza took top place among upscale 
chains in the Business Travel News 2011 
survey of travel buyers. 
on the wAy 
With 108 hotels in the pipeline, we are  
set to open over 100 properties in the  
next three to five years.
Among them is Crowne Plaza 
Amstelkwartier, Amsterdam, due to  
open in 2013 – Europe’s first hotel to gain 
platinum status from LEED, the globally 
recognised sustainability standard. 
Thanks to a strategic alliance in May,  
we agreed to manage two new Crowne 
Plaza hotels in the Guangdong and 
Jiangxi provinces for China’s state- 
owned Poly Real Estate (see page 39). 
We signed another 28 hotels and  
8,022 rooms across 11 countries in  
2011, retaining the largest pipeline  
of all upscale hotel brands.
A FReSh ni Ght ’S Slee P
We began to enhance our Sleep 
Advantage
®
 programme in The Americas 
in the year. Research confirmed that 
improvements, including 250 thread 
count linens and higher quality pillows, 
appeal to guests, reduce costs and keep 
us ahead of competitors.
	 10	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
we love to help our guests reach their personal business goals – one after the other – and 
accelerate their journey to success. we do this by combining the best facilities with great  
service so our guests feel productive, accomplished and re-energised during their trip –  
and by always staying one step ahead of their needs. crowne Plaza is an upscale brand  
located in gateway cities, urban centres and resort destinations across 65 countries.
t ravelling for Success 	 more 	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 11
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
STRIVING FOR THE RIGHT GUESTS
Our	 core	 guests	 are	 best	 described	 as	
Strivers.	 These	 individuals	 are	 aspiring	
business	 people	 who	 choose	 hotels	
that	 understand	 their	 ambitions.	
We	 are	 currently	 repositioning	
Crowne	 Plaza	 to	 target	 this	 market	
more	 precisely.	 New	 products	 and	
services	 are	 under	 development	 to	
give	 guests	 the	 space	 and	 technology	
they	 need	 to	 be	 highly	 productive	 and	
to	 feel	 restored	 and	 re-energised	 	
for	 the	 day	 ahead.
Crowne Plaza London – The City, London, UK
 	 	 	 	Hotels 	 in	 	
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  188  50,002  22
Europe 86 19,725 12
AMEA  61 16,921  21
Greater China 52  18,456  53
Total  387  105,104 108
www.crowneplaza.com on A nei GhB ou Rhood Roll
Our youngest brand continued to move into 
new markets while also building global 
RevPAR by 12.4 per cent year-on-year. 
We opened in Liverpool, Glasgow and 
Birmingham in the UK and, following  
the $25 million renovation of an historic 
building overlooking the Mississippi 
River, welcomed guests to Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, in the US. 
hotel indigo Glasgow’s l imelight bar – filled  
with locally-commissioned original artwork –  
won a dRAm award for best design.
comin G Soon
Thanks to 19 signings in 2011, we will 
debut in Russia with Hotel Indigo  
St Petersburg Tchaikovsky next year  
and open the brand’s first hotel in a 
resort destination, Hotel Indigo Phuket 
Naithon Beach Resort, Thailand in 2014. 
Properties for Tianjin and Sanya in China 
joined our pipeline, along with a first 
signing for the Middle East in Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia. 
Our second hotel for Greater China,  
the Hotel Indigo Xiamen Harbour View, 
will open its doors in March 2012. 
We are also set to open a first for 
continental Europe – Hotel Indigo Berlin 
Centre Hardenbergstraße in Germany –  
in 2012. 
In all, we will open 58 hotels over the  
next three to five years – stretching from 
York, Hamburg, Madrid and Lisbon in 
Europe, to Hong Kong and Bangkok  
in Asia, and Vancouver and New York  
in The Americas.
te Stin G new hA llm ARkS
After seven years of trading, our very  
first property – Hotel Indigo Atlanta 
Midtown – benefited from fresh interior 
spaces and new guest services. 
The hotel remains a test bed for brand 
hallmark development and, as part  
of a continuous renewal programme,  
we successfully piloted several new 
concepts: a Drink Well service at 
reception offering guests a drink on 
arrival and self-serve wine, coffee  
and sundries in other public spaces.
Public spaces at the original hotel indigo in Atlanta 
midtown have been renovated to reflect the 
neighbourhood story of the iconic Fox t heatre.
Food And Beve RAGe evolution
Hotel Indigo began to roll out a major 
food and beverage upgrade in The 
Americas.
By the end of 2012, hotels in key markets 
and all new properties will serve locally- 
sourced ingredients and seasonal menu 
items at refreshed restaurants, each 
named to reflect the culture, character 
and tastes of the neighbourhood. 
The move creates partnerships with 
preferred local suppliers – ranging  
from farmers and bakers to brewers  
and coffee roasters – and reinforces  
the personality of our brand.
Hotels that have already tested or 
completed the programme report 
increased guest revenue and scores.
loc Al S know BeSt with  
cu Rti S Stone
Celebrity chef Curtis Stone checked in  
to Hotel Indigo in the US this year to talk 
to consumers about our commitment to 
local food and suppliers. The promotion 
not only brought our neighbourhood  
story to life, it also inspired wide press 
coverage and conversation.
The ‘Locals Know Best – Dish on the Dish’ 
campaign asked consumers to share 
their favourite local dishes and vie for a 
food tasting trip for two to New York City.
We encouraged people to share stories 
and photos with our more than 17,000 
fans on facebook.com/HotelIndigo. The 
promotion generated over 900 stories, 
more than 1.5 million impressions on 
Twitter alone, and reached 361 million 
consumers. 
	 12	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
we love the fact that we’re different, right down to our local take on design. we’re all about 
neighbourhoods and take every opportunity to share them with our guests. hotel indigo 
combines the individuality of a boutique hotel with the reliability of a big brand company. 
our locations and inspired service set h otel indigo apart. we go out of our way to make local 
communities easy to discover and appealing to the upscale well-travelled guest who has an  
eye for design and is looking for something different.
Refreshingly l ocal 	 more 	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 13
TOP FOR GUEST SATISFACTION
Hotel	 Indigo	 ranked	 ‘Highest	 in	 	
Guest	 Satisfaction	 Among	 Upscale	
Hotel	 Chains’	 in	 the	 prestigious	 	
J.D.	 Power	 and	 Associates
¤
	 2011	
North	 American	 Hotel	 Guest	
Satisfaction	 Index	 Study
SM
.	
High	 guest	 satisfaction	 was	 evident	
in	 other	 regions	 too.	 In	 China,	 for	
example,	 the	 stunning	 Hotel	 Indigo	
Shanghai	 on	 the	 Bund	 celebrated	 its	
first	 full	 year	 of	 operation	 and	 was	
placed	 in	 the	 top	 10	 on	 TripAdvisor	
among	 over	 2,605	 hotels	 in	 the	 city.	
Worldwide,	 eight	 out	 of	 10	 guests	 say	
they	 are	 highly	 likely	 to	 recommend	
Hotel	 Indigo.	
Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund, China
 	 	 	 	Hotels 	 in	 	
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  33  3,973  38
Europe 5 407 11
AMEA  – –  5
Greater China 1  184  5
Total  39  4,564 59
www.hotelindigo.com
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES holid Ay inn
we’ve always been known for 
our friendly service, comfort and 
value. now that we have all but 
completed our worldwide refit, 
business and leisure travellers are 
finding holiday inn offers even 
better quality and service. our new 
identity, contemporary lobbies and 
refreshed guest rooms are designed 
to help guests relax and simply be 
themselves.
holid Ay inn ex PReSS
one of the world’s fastest growing 
hotel brands, holiday inn e xpress 
offers convenience and comfort at 
great value. like h oliday inn, we’ve 
virtually completed our relaunch.  
that means our guests can expect  
the fresh, clean and comfortable 
stay they are used to, with improved 
service and a more contemporary feel.
holid Ay inn clu B vA cAtion S
holiday inn c lub v acations continues 
to experience growing demand and 
enthusiasm for vacation ownership. 
our great resorts remain focused 
on delivering more space, more 
amenities, more flexibility and more 
fun – a perfect combination for our 
guests who can enjoy a great vacation 
experience whether it’s for a day,  
a week or a lifetime.
	 14	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
making our brands even more attractive to guests is what makes Great hotels Guests love.  
we undertook the $1 billion worldwide h oliday inn relaunch at a time of global downturn when, 
along with our owners, we agreed to make our biggest brand fresh and relevant for the next 
generation of guests. with more than 3,340 h oliday inn and h oliday inn e xpress hotels, the brand 
family has all but completed its refresh. As the following pages demonstrate, we’re benefiting from 
improved global RevPAR, greater guest satisfaction and increased owner interest. nor have we 
been standing still on the brand development front this year.
 	 	 	 	 Hotels 	 in		
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  809  142,893 157
Europe 290 46,465 25
AMEA  77 18,032  43
Greater China 57  17,938  41
Total  1,233  225,328 266
 	 	 	 	 Hotels 	 in		
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  1,874  162,935 372
Europe 198 23,181 43
AMEA  8 1,857  27
Greater China 34  8,693  28
Total  2,114  196,666 470
 	 	 	 	 Resorts 	 in		
Region	 Resorts	 Villas	 pipeline
Americas 7  2,928 1
Total  7  2,928 1
www.holidayinn.com www.hiexpress.com www.hiclubvacations.com
championing the Real you 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 15
GUESTS APPROVE NEW STANDARDS 
Holiday	 Inn	 had	a	 year	 of	 outstanding	 performance	
in	 the	 guest	 satisfaction	 stakes,	 ranking	 ‘Highest	 in	
Guest	 Satisfaction	 among	Mid-Scale	 Full	 Service	
Hotel	 Chains’	 by	 J.D.	 Power	 and	 Associates
¤
,	 and	
taking	 first	 place	 among	 midscale	 brands	 in	 two	
key	 US	 studies:	 Harris	 Poll	 EquiTrend	 and	 the	
Business	 Travel	 News	 Hotel	 Chain	 Survey.
We	 were	 also	 voted	 ‘Best	 Mid-Market	 Hotel	 Brand	
in	 the	 World	 and	 Asia	 Pacific’	 by	 readers	 of	
Business	 Traveller	 Asia	 Pacific	 for	 the	 eleventh	
successive	 year.
The	 accolades	 follow	 our	 first	 full	 year	 of	 relaunch	
and	a	 stronger	 focus	 on	 service.	
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
Holiday Inn Manchester, UK 	 16	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
PeRFoRmAnce GAin S
Worldwide, the combined global RevPAR 
for Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express 
rose by 6.6 per cent year-on-year. 
In the US, home to our biggest market, 
Holiday Inn achieved a rate premium of 
almost five per cent within the upper 
midscale segment and Holiday Inn Express 
a premium of almost four per cent. 
canada’s largest holiday inn opened in April following 
a $20 million renovation. w ith 513 rooms over 
23 floors, holiday inn t oronto downtown centre is also 
the largest hotel to open across n orth America since 
our refit.
chin A ho St S BiGGeSt holid Ay inn
In a milestone deal with the China 
division of Las Vegas Sands (LVS), we 
signed a franchise contract for the 
world’s largest Holiday Inn – Holiday Inn 
Macao Cotai Central. 
Opening in early 2012, it will offer 1,224 
rooms within Sands China’s newest 
integrated resort, Sands Cotai Central. 
A haven for casino lovers, the resort boasts 
a line-up of five leading hotel brands – 
including LVS’s The Venetian Macao.
The deal extends a strong strategic 
relationship. This year we also launched 
the first InterContinental Alliance 
Resorts with LVS (see page 8).
StAy Soci Al
A new social area for Holiday Inn hotels 
made its test debut at Holiday Inn 
Gwinnett Center, Atlanta.
The Hub at Holiday Inn creates a 24-hour 
centre where guests can eat, drink, 
connect, relax and have fun. 
As well as answering guests’ natural 
inclination to interact, The Hub also 
transforms the hotel’s food and beverage 
offering so that guests can choose ‘grab 
and go’, sit-down meals or food to share 
– whatever the time of day. 
The design makes a focal point of the  
bar and has won a Spark Design & 
Architecture Award.
Early results are encouraging. On average, 
food revenues per occupied room were  
up 25 per cent on 2010, and beverage 
revenues by 40 per cent during the first 
few months of trials.
Two additional hotels will test The Hub 
during 2012, enabling us to fine-tune  
the concept prior to a global roll-out.
our newest feature, t he hub at the holiday inn 
Gwinnett center, Atlanta, uS.
oRAnGe lA ke Add S  
Seventh ReSoRt
Vacation ownership developer Orange 
Lake Resorts opened a seventh Holiday 
Inn Club Vacations Resort in Marco 
Island, Florida. Sunset Cove Resort 
answers high demand for this flagship 
location, offering 36 timeshare units  
and family facilities under our tried and 
trusted brand. It will be followed by an 
eighth opening in Las Vegas during 2012. 
co St A Ric An de Al
We continued to expand in Central 
America with the opening of Holiday Inn 
San Jose Escazu in San Jose, Costa Rica. 
The new-build 160-room property is  
the third of seven scheduled openings 
resulting from a partnership with Grupo 
AGRISAL ’s hotel division. Separately, the 
brand also made its debut in Bogotá, 
Colombia. 
holiday inn San Jose escazu, San Jose, costa Rica
RAcin G to the olym Pic Fini Sh
Holiday Inn colleagues, guests and 
Priority Club Rewards members in the 
UK enjoyed a running master class with 
gold medallist Mo Farah and took to  
the track with world champion cyclist 
Mark Cavendish.
The events backed our partnership with 
the London 2012 Organising Committee, 
LOCOG, which includes manning the 
Athletes’ Village. 
This is more than a sponsorship. We’re 
using the deal to provide guests, athletes, 
officials, fans and our people with a 
range of unforgettable experiences.
During the year we selected 70 of our 
colleagues to run with the Olympic Torch, 
and invited applications from around  
the world to fill around 100 roles at the 
Athletes’ Village.
Meanwhile, 16 athletes are working  
in our UK hotels in order to earn while 
they train, and we’re supporting 50 British 
athletes with over 1,500 free room nights 
as they travel and train for the Games.
As well as showcasing the brand on the 
world stage, our three-year partnership 
with LOCOG has generated nearly 
£11 million in extra revenue for our  
hotels to date. NEW MARKETS FOR HOLIDAY  
INN EXPRESS
A	 joint	 venture	 and	 20-year	
management	 contract	 with	 Delhi-
based	 Duet	 India	 Hotels	 Group	 	
will	 create	 19	 Holiday	 Inn	 Express	
hotels	 by	 2016.
The	 deal	 earmarks	 $30	 million	 of	 	
our	 own	 cash	 to	 launch	 the	 brand	
across	 India,	 starting	 with	 a	 first	
opening	 in	 September	 2012.	
As	 well	 as	 in	 India,	 we’re	 poised	 	
to	 launch	 Holiday	 Inn	 Express	 in	
Thailand	 next	 year,	 in	 Indonesia	 and	
Singapore	 in	 2013,	 and	 in	 Malaysia	 	
in	 2014.
2011	 was	 the	 brand’s	 20th	
anniversary,	 and	 a	 year	 of	 96	 hotel	
openings	 and	 145	 signings.	
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 17
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
Holiday Inn Express Houston, US deSiGnS FoR tomo RRow
New interiors for our suites and public 
spaces went live in 2011, thanks to a 
successful partnership with Savannah 
College of Art & Design (SCAD).
Available for owners across the US, the 
designs went public when three new 
hotels opened: Syracuse Liverpool,  
New York; San Antonio; and Tyler 
University Area, Texas. 
Our guests look for the next best thing  
to home, so SCAD came up with 
contemporary residential schemes using 
fresh colours, patterns and textures.
Sustainable features include 100% 
recyclable carpet tiles and the 
furnishings address the specific needs  
of extended stay guests, especially 
storage and personalised space. 
Early adopters include our largest owner 
Hospitality Properties Trust (HPT). 
HPT will refurbish all of its 19 Staybridge 
Suites by mid-2012. Eight of those will be 
renovated from scratch.
Staybridge Suites t yler university Area, t exas, uS
n ew o Penin GS, new loc Ation S
The Staybridge Suites flag now flies  
at 179 hotels across key cities in The 
Americas, Europe and the Middle East, 
including Cairo, St Petersburg and 
London.
First launched in the US in 1998, we 
opened seven hotels in North America 
this year, three in Texas alone.
Staybridge Suites St Petersburg, Russia
extendin G ou R ho SPit Ality
During 2011, we added 24 new hotel 
signings to our global pipeline. We signed 
a 15-year license agreement for a first 
hotel in Central America, due to open  
in Panama City in 2012. A first property 
for Ras Al Khaimah and a second for  
Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates 
will open in 2014.
Staybridge Suites Edinburgh, managed 
by BDL Management, also opens in 2012.
 
whA t we StA nd FoR
We launched a new-look brand identity  
to state more clearly what we stand for: 
‘warmth, flexibility, comfort and 
community’. 
The fresh style and tone of voice was 
incorporated into all photography, print, 
online and social media during the year. 
One of its first public outings was for a 
US trade press campaign to raise our 
profile among travel decision-makers, 
including procurement and relocation 
professionals.
 
in touch with S oci Al medi A
Our new identity reached a wider 
audience in August when we launched  
on Facebook and Twitter, quickly gaining 
more than 5,600 fans and followers who 
keep in touch with our teams and each 
other while on the road. 
Early in 2012 we plan to add the ‘Digital 
Fridge’ and ‘The Board’ to our online 
presence. These interactive apps will 
allow guests to swap travel tips, share 
ideas and have their say about what we 
stock in hotel stores. We aim to add 
10,000 fans and 20,000 followers within 
three months of launch.
	 18	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
we love to make our guests feel like family and our hotels feel like home. Staybridge Suites is 
ideal for upscale business and leisure travellers who want to move in for longer stays and enjoy 
the best of home and hotel. Guests have their own spacious living areas, fully-equipped kitchens 
and separate work areas. or they can unwind and relax with other guests and our hotel teams 
at ‘the Social’ evening reception. either way, we’re dedicated to making their extended stay an 
extended pleasure.
l ike family Staybridge Suites Tyler University Area, Texas, US
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 19
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
A TASTIER bRAND 
In	 keeping	 with	 our	 refreshed	 branding,	 we	 	
will	 start	 rolling	 out	 new	 food	 and	 beverage	
standards	 to	 Staybridge	 Suites	 hotels	 across	 	
the	 US	 in	 early	 2012.
	 ‘Build-your-own’	 small	 plates	 and	 signature	
salads	 were	 tested	 in	 12	 hotels	 during	 2011,	
providing	 dozens	 of	 menu	 combinations	 that	
appeal	 to	 guests	 and	 fit	 well	 with	 our	 social	
gatherings	 and	 weekly	 barbecue.
The	 brand’s	 traditional	 evening	 reception	 	
has	 meanwhile	 been	 renamed	 ‘The	 Social’	 	
to	 convey	 the	 convivial	 atmosphere	 that	
characterises	 a	 typical	 bar	 or	 pub.	
 	 	 	 	Hotels 	 in	 	
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  174  18,820  86
Europe 3 443 2
AMEA  2 304 7
Total  179  19,567 95
www.staybridgesuites.com h APPy Annive RSARy
Candlewood Suites celebrated 15 years  
in the midscale extended stay market. 
We opened 15 hotels this year, including 
an 83-room new-build in Avondale, New 
Orleans – our seventh hotel in Louisiana 
and a second for the birthplace of jazz.
Rapid growth for this North American 
brand has seen 100 hotels open in just 
three years, including the first in its 
sector for New York City.
candlewood Suites Avondale, n ew orleans, uS
new cont RAct , new look
Thanks to a new 25-year management 
contract with major long-stay hotel 
owner Hospitality Properties Trust  
(HPT), all 58 of the real estate investment 
trust’s Candlewood Suites properties  
will be refreshed or renovated in 2012. 
Room to Be FRee
Over 60 per cent of guests spend more 
than seven nights with us so we want 
them to enjoy comfort and space in a 
modern setting. Like our sister brand 
Staybridge Suites, we’ve begun to roll  
out fresh interiors created by Savannah 
College of Art & Design.
candlewood Suites San Antonio, uS
on the RoAd with nh RA
The National Hot Rod Association  
(NHRA) named Candlewood Suites the 
‘Preferred Hotel of NHRA’ in a multi-year, 
multimedia partnership. The motorsports 
deal provides advertising on NHRA.com 
and in weekly National Dragster magazine. 
In turn, IHG supports NHRA’s 80,000 
members with special hotel offers as 
they travel to events across the US  
and Canada.
We also became the primary sponsor  
for Kalitta Motorsports, one of the most 
accomplished teams on the NHRA drag 
racing circuit. 
The NHRA believes our ‘down to earth 
hospitality’ matches the personality  
and travel habits of its fans. 
 
dRivin G Aw ARene SS online
Over half of extended stay guests use 
social media to keep in touch with family 
and friends. 
This year we used Twitter and Facebook 
to encourage conversation with existing 
guests and to create brand awareness  
in the wider long-stay community.
Our existing Twitter profile,  
@CNDLWOODCanine, promotes our  
pet-friendly policies.
The Candlewood Suites Facebook page 
went live in April and we followed this  
in October by launching a branded app, 
‘King of The Road’, alongside a targeted 
membership campaign. 
The app enables fans to exchange ideas 
and travel tips and draws on our links 
with the NHRA and its large social  
media network. 
King of The Road has helped attract over 
12,000 new fans to our Facebook page. 
Our target is to have 20,000 by the end  
of 2012.
Give kid S the wo Rld
We joined forces with Staybridge Suites 
to support Give Kids The World, a charity 
creating magical memories for children 
with life-threatening illnesses and their 
families. Our hotel teams and guests 
lend support by fundraising and 
volunteering. Together we raised  
$57,000 for the cause in 2011.
	 20	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
we love giving our guests all the essentials and freedom they need for a home-like stay at 
great value. we give them room to be themselves, but are always on hand when needed. 
Spacious studios and one-bedroom suites make our hotels ideal for longer-stay guests looking 
for convenience at great value. Guests enjoy fully-equipped kitchens, large work areas and the 
candlewood cupboard for snacks, refreshments and other necessities 24 hours a day. it’s the  
only hotel store to operate on a system of trust.
Feel free 	 more 	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com Great brands	 21
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
TRUST MATTERS 
This	 year	 we	 tested	 ‘Lending	 Locker’	
which,	 like	 the	 Candlewood	 Cupboard,	
operates	 on	 a	 system	 of	 trust.	 Guests	
can	 borrow	 items	 such	 as	 coffee	
grinders	 and	 rice	 cookers	 and	 return	
them	 once	 finished.	 Being	 trusted	 	
in	 this	 way	 is	 valued	 by	 guests	 as	
unique	 to	 our	 brand.	 Hotels	 will	 be	
able	 to	 introduce	 the	 concept	 from	
early	 2012.
Candlewood Suites San Antonio, US
 	 	 	 	Hotels 	 in	 	
Region	 Hotels 	 	 Rooms	 pipeline
Americas  285  27,500  94
Total  285  27,500 94
www.candlewoodsuites.com 	 22	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
the hotel industry’s first and largest loyalty programme, 
Priority club Rewards gives its 63 million members unparalleled 
choice and flexibility. this award-winning scheme also draws 
some of our most profitable customers to our hotels, boosting 
value for our guests and revenue for our owners.
unleash the power of your points
indu StRy le Adin G vA lue
Priority Club Rewards (PCR) members 
are an increasingly important source of 
revenue for our hotels. Every month, on 
average, 600,000 people sign up to the 
scheme and, after enrolling, members 
shift over 40 per cent of their hotel stays 
to IHG hotels. 
They are also two-and-a-half times  
more likely to book through our direct, 
non-commissionable channels than  
non-members, driving on average a  
six per cent rate premium. 
In 2011 we relaunched the programme 
with a refreshed look and positioning. 
Featuring the IHG logo for the first time, 
this was developed on the back of a 
three-year global study of frequent 
travellers. Our research confirmed  
that guests value the flexibility and 
control given by PCR, such as no point 
expiry or restricted dates, and complete 
freedom to choose where they redeem 
their points. 
It also revealed that frequent travellers 
favour hotel loyalty programme currency 
over frequent flyer miles and value loyalty 
more than price. The newly designed 
membership cards, logo and website 
better reflect the value we offer and 
strengthen our global lead, both in the 
industry and among frequent travellers.
moRe indu StR y FiRStS
Our new Topguest service is the first 
hotel scheme to reward guests who use 
Location Based Service (LBS) technology, 
such as FourSquare, Twitter and Google 
Latitude, to check in at hotels. Members 
who sign up to the service earn loyalty 
points every time they sign into major 
LBS apps at any of our 4,480 hotels. 
We were also the first hotel rewards 
programme to launch an online gaming 
platform. Between 24 January and 
15 April 2011, we awarded almost three 
million points a week to PCR members 
who took part in a new game, called  
‘Win it in a Minute’.
in 2011 Priority c lub Rewards 
was named the ‘Best hotel 
Rewards Program’ for the 
seventh consecutive year by 
Global t raveler magazine.
Launched 1983
Over 63 million members globally
On average over 600,000 new members  
every month
Over 7 million new members enrolled  
in 2011
www.priorityclub.com 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 23
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
how we oPe RAte 
our business model 
we run hotels in three ways: franchised; managed; and owned. 
our asset-light business model means we own just 11 hotels today. most of our hotels operate 
under franchise agreement or are managed by ih G on behalf of owners. All are supported by  
our revenue management tools and many by our ih G People t ools.
our set up
our system 
t he ih G system powers our business. it builds guest preference for our brands; drives reservations  
and revenues to our hotels; and is a key reason why over 4,000 hotel owners choose to work with us. 
w e want our owners to feel part of something bigger and to have the resources to operate hotels 
better than they could do on their own.
Sc Ale
4,480 hotels
153 million guests annually
Revenue mAn AGement
World-class  
systems
Re SeRvA tion S SyStem S
11 call centres
12 languages
BRAnd PoRtF olio
Seven preferred  
hotel brands
PRioR ity clu B Rew ARdS
63 million members, 
contributing over $6.9bn to 
global system rooms revenue
mARket cove RAGe
Leadership in 13  
of top 20 markets
SAle S FoRce
17,600 sales professionals
3,500 accounts
we B/moBile
11 language sites
Eight language apps
Food A nd Beve RAGe
Over $4.6bn of Food & 
Beverage revenue and  
over 4,500 outlets worldwide
SyStem Fund
Annual fund totalling $1.2bn 
to maintain marketing and 
systems that generate 
demand for our hotels
69% 
room revenue delivery
MANAGED
We	 manage	 637	 hotels	
worldwide
OWNED AND LEASED
We	 own	 11	 hotels	 worldwide		
(less	 than	 one	 per	 cent	 of	 our	
portfolio)
IHG
IHG
IHG
IHG
IHG usually 
supplies 
General 
Manager as  
a minimum
IHG
Third-party
IHG
Low/none
High
FRANCHISED
This	 is	 the	 largest	 part	 of	 our	
business:	 3,832	 hotels	 operate		
under	 franchise	 agreements
IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of 
rooms 
revenue
BRAnd 
owneRShiP
mARketinG And 
diStRiBution
 
StAFF
hotel 
owneRShiP
 
ihG cAPitAl
 
ihG income
Fee % of total 
revenue plus  
% of profit 
All revenues 
and profits A winnin G St RAte Gy
We have made explicit choices regarding 
the segments of the market in which we 
wish to operate, ‘where we compete’,  
and our basis of differentiation and 
competition, ‘how we win’. These 
decisions are underpinned by a rigorous 
strategy setting process that is informed 
by regular external research into 
consumer preferences, developments  
in the hotel and leisure sectors, and 
economic and demographic trends.  
The key elements of our strategy and 
progress in its implementation are 
reviewed annually by the Board. 
We are focused on operating hotels in 
those geographies and market segments 
that offer the greatest growth potential 
and attractive long-term returns.  
Our preferred business model favours 
franchising our brands and managing 
hotels rather than owning properties 
which reduces capital intensity, allows  
us to grow faster and provides a more 
resilient business model.
We operate a portfolio of well-known 
and distinctive brands that aim over 
time to increase their appeal amongst 
guests in our chosen market segments.  
Our brands and their related 
propositions continue to benefit from 
sustained investment by the Group and 
owners in the physical hotel environment 
and customer service training. Based 
on our insights into changing guest 
preferences and emerging segments, 
we will create and launch new brands 
to allow us to win greater market share. 
Our hotel operations are supported by 
best-in-class demand delivery systems 
and operational expertise that provide  
scale benefits resulting in margin 
improvement and better returns  
for owners. 
inve Stin G Behind GRowth
During the year, we invested $93 million  
in growth capital expenditure. This 
included a $12 million equity stake in 
Summit Hotel Properties, Inc. in the US 
with whom we have a hotel sourcing 
agreement; $11 million in the joint venture 
which will take Holiday Inn Express into 
India; and $25 million in the joint venture 
to develop a Hotel Indigo on the Lower 
East side of Manhattan. We also spent 
$101 million maintenance capital 
expenditure in owned hotels and our 
systems infrastructure to maintain our 
leading position in the industry and drive 
further growth. Investments in technology 
included the further development of our 
branded websites, applications for mobile 
devices, new software tools to improve 
pricing and hotel operations, new 
distribution platforms and our central 
sales and reservations capability.
GRowth in SyS tem Size
During the year, we opened 241 hotels 
and 44,265 rooms in our system and 
signed a total of 356 hotels and 55,424 
rooms into our pipeline reflecting the 
strong preference amongst owners  
for our brands. The tougher financing 
climate in The Americas and Europe 
increased the proportion of new signings 
represented by conversions of existing 
properties, whereas China, the Middle 
East and Asia remained predominantly 
new-build markets. We achieved modest 
growth in system size of two per cent and 
	 24	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
“A net gain in hotel rooms 
coupled with industry-leading 
RevPAR boosted our market 
share. Fee-based margins  
rose 4.9 percentage points to  
40.6 per cent, creating capacity 
for more investment in brand 
quality and guest delivery.” 
 Tom Singer 
chief Financial officer
FinA nce
we continue to pursue an asset-light business model focused on franchising our brands and 
managing hotels rather than owning properties. Since 2003, we have sold nearly 200 hotels, 
returned almost $6 billion to shareholders and built a fee-based income stream with proven 
resilience – even during global recession. our strategy is to create high-quality growth by 
developing our brands and relationships to increase market share and improve our margins  
and returns to owners. we invest our free cash flow to accelerate our growth in existing and  
new emerging markets which offer attractive long-term prospects. ended the year with 658,348 rooms in our 
system. We expect net system growth of 
between two and three per cent in 2012.
continued RecyclinG oF cAPit Al
Franchised and managed hotels now 
account for 74 per cent and 25 per cent, 
respectively, of our system size with the 
balance attributable to the remaining 
11 owned hotels.
During the year we sold four hotels: 
Hotel Indigo San Diego, Staybridge 
Suites Cherry Creek, Holiday Inn 
Atlanta-Gwinnett Place and Holiday Inn 
Express Essen, and our joint venture 
interest in Holiday Inn Burswood for 
over $140 million – 22 per cent above net 
book value – and retained management 
or franchise agreements on each. 
Staybridge Suites Cherry Creek and 
Holiday Inn Atlanta-Gwinnett Place were 
sold to Summit Hotel Properties, Inc., 
which will spend $2.5 million on 
improvements. 
SuPPoRtive lon G-te Rm t Rend S
We continue to out-perform with revenue 
per available room (RevPAR) growth in 
the year of 6.2 per cent compared to 
5.9 per cent for the global industry. Global 
room demand exceeded pre-recession 
levels, breaking new records in the US 
– our biggest market – since March. 
Coupled with low supply growth, this 
helped to boost both room night 
occupancy and rate. 
In the short-term, the future rate of growth 
in the global economy – particularly in 
the Eurozone – is uncertain. Looking to 
the long-term, the prospects for the 
sector remain bright due to supportive 
trends including growing affluence in 
many parts of the world, increased 
urbanisation in developing economies, 
growth in air travel, and changing 
demographics.
St Ron G BAlA nce Sheet
In November, we completed the early 
refinancing of our committed bank facility 
given that the corporate lending markets 
continue to be challenging. The new 
five-year $1.07 billion facility demonstrated 
our bank syndicate’s confidence in the 
business and complements a £250 million 
bond issued in 2009. At the end of 2011, 
the new facility remained substantially 
undrawn providing us with the ability  
to continue to invest in the development 
of the business and deal with any 
economic downturn. 
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 25
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
Glenn	 Squires		
2012 Chairman  
IHG Owners Association  
For information on the  
IHG Owners Association,  
go to www.owners.org
201 1 will always be noted as the year 
the ih G o wners Association changed  
its name. From iAhi , the owners’ 
Association to ih G o wners Association. 
w hile that change may not look 
significant from the outside, to the 
leaders of this organisation and to our 
ih G partners, it signifies our partnership 
in a way that our old name did not.
our new name reflects our representation 
of ih G brands across the globe. t he 
former name stood for international 
Association of holiday inns, and since 
the mid-1980s, we have represented 
more than just that one brand. n ow our  
name reflects the breadth of work the 
Association fosters on behalf of all 
owners. w e are deeply grateful to  
Bill d eForrest, our immediate past 
chairman, for his passion to move our 
rebranding forward.
Reflecting on the past year, i see it as a 
year of strengthened alignment with ih G 
to better serve our owners. our volunteer 
leaders and our ih G partners operate 
from a shared foundation of mutual 
respect and a shared understanding 
that our decisions have real impact  
for every hotel and owner worldwide. 
w e are aligned to improve return on 
investment and the value of our assets 
while growing shareholder value. 
Aligning our global view
‘Where we compete’
Appropriate business model
Relevant consumer segments
Best developed and emerging markets
‘How we win’
Portfolio of preferred brands
Best-in-class delivery
Talented people
…achieved through strategic priorities
Growing our core business in the largest 
markets where scale really counts, and also in
key global gateway cities and resort destinations 
Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale 
in new business areas
Profitable market share
Progressive margins
Sustainable investment
Responsible business
With a portfolio of preferred brands in the best developed and emerging markets, 
our talented people are focused on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and executing a clear 
set of priorities to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies of the world… 	 26	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
t o become one of the world’s great companies  
we need to become one of the world’s best people 
companies, building experiences and hotels our 
guests love through a passionate, focused and 
skilled team of people. w e will do this by: 
› cReAtin G A BRAnd he ARted c ultu Re; 
› mAkin G ih G A GReAt PlAce to woR k;
› delive Rin G wo Rld cl ASS Peo Ple  
tool S FoR ou R owne RS; and
› Buildin G A StR on G leA de RShi P teAm. 
 
Achieving these goals has never been more 
important, with 90,000 additional people needed 
in the next three years across our franchised and 
managed business to support ih G’s ambitious 
growth plans.
cReAtin G A BRAnd he ARted 
cultu Re 
Our people are the face of IHG, and every 
day we rely on them to deliver fantastic 
guest experiences. These experiences 
are something guests will seek out time 
and again, helping us to win market 
share and drive revenue. To create this 
culture we introduced BrandHearted –  
a change in our culture so that every 
decision and action we take is designed 
to strengthen our brands and inspire our 
people as brand ambassadors. Everyone 
wants to work for a great brand – a brand 
to be proud of and that people love. 
BrandHearted is about engaging our 
people on all of the reasons to love our 
brands and what it takes to bring them  
to life in a way that is right for our guests. 
We have been introducing this culture 
change throughout 2011, supported by 
key initiatives such as a new Heart of 
House which has transformed the hotel 
‘back of house’ into a place that involves 
employees by inspiring them on IHG, 
their brand, hotel and team. It should be 
an environment that stands up to the 
guest experience we provide at the front 
of our hotels. In hotels with a remodelled 
Heart of House, engagement with our 
people increased by 13 per cent showing 
that an improved working environment 
really does make a difference.
mAkin G ih G A GReAt PlA ce  
to wo Rk 
The profile of our future workforce is 
changing. Our talent pool will soon be 
dominated by Generation Y (currently 
13 to 33 years old) and we need to ensure 
our plans attract and retain the very best 
talent by accommodating their needs. For 
them, social media is the reliable source 
of word of mouth information, and they 
expect us to build and maintain our 
relationships with them online, reaching 
them digitally, as we do our guests. In 
2012, successful recruits will visit our 
new online orientation programme 
where they learn about our brands  
and culture before their first day. 
When they join us they also gain access 
to a Facebook-style online recognition 
scheme called Bravo, so they can publicly 
‘like’ (recognise) each other’s achievements.
industry recognition helps to attract future 
employees, which is why we continually 
benchmark our programmes against the 
world’s best companies. in 2011 we won  
16 awards from ‘the Sunday times 25 Best  
Big companies to work For’ to Aon h ewitt’s 
‘Best employer’ in Singapore, malaysia  
and Australia. And in January 2012, we  
were delighted to be recognised in Fortune’s  
‘100 Best companies to w ork For’ list in the uS.
When it comes to retention, few 
organisations account for the cost of 
replacing knowledge. Our twice-yearly 
Careers Week publicises opportunities 
for employees to grow their careers 
within the IHG family, with employees 
updating their job profiles on www.ihg.
jobs each year. 
Peo Ple
our brands are a promise brought to life by our people; and when we touch the hearts of our 
people, they touch the hearts of our guests. tracy Robbins says “everything ih G does is designed 
to create an emotional connection for our people so they can deliver our brand promises, as this 
drives profitable returns for both ihG and our owners.” 
“our owners have really 
championed the people agenda. 
they’re great advocates of how 
you deliver a unique guest 
experience through our people.”
 Tracy Robbins
 e xecutive vice President,  
head of human Resources  
and o perations Support 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 27
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
delive Rin G wo Rld cl ASS  
Peo Ple tool S 
Our owners told us their biggest challenge 
on the people agenda is finding, developing 
and retaining great people. In response 
we introduced the IHG People Tools – 
award-winning resources to hire, train, 
involve and recognise the right employees 
for each brand; because guests do not 
book a business model, they book a great 
brand experience. In addition to making 
their lives easier, the IHG People Tools 
also help owners manage their people 
expenses.
“of all the factors critical to the 
success of our business, the single 
most influential one is the ‘people 
factor’. it’s not an easy job finding 
people who can live and breathe 
our brands, with passion, focus and 
personality. that’s what the People 
tools are all about.”
hiRe We’ve developed a suite of  
world-class recruitment tools including 
job descriptions and interview guides, 
which we offer at no cost to owners. 
Other tools we offer at significant 
discounts to market rates, such as the 
ability to post vacancies on our global 
jobs portal at www.ihg.jobs 
tRA in Everyone attends brand 
orientation and branded service 
behaviour training which immerse them 
into the brand story and what it takes  
to deliver the great guest experience.
involve Hotels with higher levels of 
employee engagement can return 11 per 
cent higher operating profits than hotels 
with below-average engagement. Key to 
engagement is involving employees in  
the business through the twice-annual 
engagement survey. In 2011 a record 
100,000 employees (94 per cent of those  
in our corporate offices and owned and 
managed hotels) took part, with 93 per 
cent saying they feel proud to work for 
IHG, and providing an overall engagement 
score of 78 per cent; scores that  
out-performed the industry according  
to TNS’ high performing benchmark.
Reco Gni Se Recognition plays a pivotal 
role in engagement, something the IHG 
Owners Association acknowledged when 
it created Celebrate Service week.  
In 2011, 3,000 hotels hosted ‘thank you’ 
celebrations and encouraged employees 
to share 1,600 service stories.
Buildin G A StR on G  
le Ade RShiP te Am
The Programme Office – our change 
management office – is helping keep 
track of our priority programmes,  
as well as ensuring the right leadership 
capabilities are embedded within IHG; 
from project management to leading our 
BrandHearted culture change. Following 
a successful leadership event for our top 
300 leaders, the Programme Office then 
introduced new BrandHearted leadership 
competencies and training to equip our 
top leaders to deliver our brands with 
consistency and with a sharpened focus. 
In 2012 and 2013 we will extend this 
training to our corporate directors and 
General Managers. 
The Leaders Lounge is our award-winning 
online community for 1,360 of our leaders. 
Unique in the hotels industry, the Lounge 
shares great leadership practice across 
IHG’s global estate, with leaders accessing 
over 41,000 Lounge items including 
leadership tips and insights. 
Achieving our Vision of becoming one  
of the world’s great companies relies  
on attracting the best leaders and 
fast-tracking future leaders to take  
us forward. Our talent strategy for 2012 
will reflect this with more leadership 
eLearning and ideas forums. 
lookin G Ahe Ad
People are fundamental to our growth. 
With 1,144 hotels in our pipeline and as 
we expand in new and emerging markets, 
we’ll need 90,000 people to satisfy our 
ambition. China currently holds almost 
30 per cent of our pipeline, with 70 per cent 
of those hotels already under construction, 
and by 2020 we’ll have trebled room 
numbers in China to 150,000. The market 
is competitive and in order to attract the 
best people we’ve had to think local. 
We’ve launched a bespoke recruitment 
site in Mandarin that provides significant 
advantage in recruiting local talent and 
we’re tailoring our global tools to meet 
local needs, particularly with the 
emergence of Generation Y who are 
looking for greater use of new media. 
celebrate Service w eek at the intercontinental  
and holiday inn Bangkok.
www.ihg.jobs
Chris
h oliday inn  
e xpress
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS ARt o F the PoSSiBle 
New technology plays a pivotal role in 
helping IHG achieve its Vision. 
We were one of the first in our industry  
to establish a mobile booking website and 
we continue to lead in the mobile space. 
In 2011, gross revenue from our mobile 
platform exceeded $148 million across a 
range of applications that are among the 
top hospitality downloads. Our pioneering 
use of mobile gives our guests a richer 
experience from the moment they start 
searching for a hotel. 
As well as information about specific 
hotels, guests have access to 
personalised concierge applications 
during their stay and the ability to provide 
feedback on their experience afterwards. 
Following a successful pilot, and as the 
initiative is adopted across the portfolio, 
Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express 
guests will also get to use their mobile 
phones as a key to their room.
Whether they are attached to their 
Android, iPhone or the new Windows 7 
phone, our guests love the way we push 
the frontiers of technology to support 
them. Importantly, our owners benefit 
too, from increased revenue and traffic  
to their hotels, and in the way they run 
their business.
BuSine SS intelli Gence on the Go
In 2011 we delivered more robust 
reporting tools, enabling our owners to 
manage their hotels more efficiently. IHG 
Reporting now gives owners a snapshot 
of their hotel’s average daily rate, 
RevPAR and occupancy through a full 
range of mobile devices, such as phones 
and tablets, literally putting their 
business in their hands. 
This allows owners to run their business 
and assess how it’s performing while out 
and about in their hotel, rather than from 
the back office. Information comes from 
our new group-wide forecasting system, 
which allows owners to evaluate and 
strategically forecast their hotel’s 
performance individually, by brand  
or against their total portfolio. 
Through focused efforts with our 
business colleagues we continue to 
expand our reporting capabilities with 
personalised information dashboards, 
meeting planning and competitive data.
Gue St loy Alty
We have delivered improvements to  
the way hotels view and interact with 
Priority Club Rewards members and 
other loyal guests. 
Our new web-based loyalty application, 
LoyaltyConnect, provides a more intuitive 
way to manage loyalty-related tasks, 
such as building targeted marketing 
campaigns and updating the millions  
of guest profiles in our system. 
Through GuestConnect Mobile, hotels 
can specify which promotions to include 
in pre-stay emails, enriching the guest 
experience from the start. 
	 28	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
technolo Gy
it’s been another groundbreaking year for Global t echnology. the team is helping to differentiate 
our brands and increase profits for our owners by developing world-class tools that enhance  
the guest experience, and a broad range of mobile applications that drive revenue. At the same 
time many activities and products are improving cost savings such as our collaboration with 
Google mail.
“demand for advanced 
technology solutions across all 
areas of our business continues 
to soar, most notably among 
our guests whose take-up of our 
mobile and smartphone apps 
has seen gross mobile revenues 
increase fourfold over the  
past year.”
 Tom Conophy
 e xecutive vice President and  
chief information o fficer A SucceSSF ul coll ABoRAtion
Partnering with other leading companies 
is essential to our continued growth and 
a vital element of becoming one of the 
great companies of the world. Our strong 
partnership with Google is a good 
example, benefiting both companies 
commercially and through innovation. 
Through the collaboration we introduced 
high-speed internet access in our hotel 
rooms, with a welcome page showing 
relevant promotions and local 
attractions, and included enhanced 
Google Maps search capabilities. 
We also started to roll out Google Mail, 
applications and collaboration tools to 
hotels and offices worldwide, improving 
efficiency and cost savings. Thanks to our 
partnership and the fact that we use over 
seven million key word searches to direct 
guests to our hotels online, IHG was one 
of five beta partners selected by Google 
to pilot the new Google Chrome laptop 
which has the potential to change the  
way people access technology. 
SuPPoRtin G milit ARy BASeS
Our growth strategy includes a 
partnership with the US military through 
the Privatization of Army Lodging  
at military bases (see page 36). We 
currently operate and support 47 hotels, 
providing operational staff and guest 
facing technology to keep bases and 
military troops connected. 
cloud com Putin G
We are realising the art of the possible 
through cloud computing. By storing data 
virtually across a range of global locations, 
this can help large organisations like  
IHG, which serve staff and consumers 
worldwide become more agile, efficient 
and cost effective. 
Currently, we are using cloud computing 
to better meet local needs through our 
new Chinese marketplace website, for 
Google Mail, and to lay the foundations 
for our next generation reservation 
system and people management tools.
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 29
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
IHG Mobile available for iPhone
®
, Android™, BlackBerry
®
 and w indows
®
k nowledge at the touch of a finger.
Book a room on the go. mAn AGin G RiSkS 
Our corporate reputation and the 
standing of our seven brands have been 
built on guests’ great experiences, strong 
business relationships, sustained 
financial performance, and our drive to 
be a responsible business. Protecting 
this trusted reputation and achieving our 
long-term business objectives motivates 
us to manage risks proactively. We 
ensure risks are clearly identified, 
robustly assessed and prioritised, with 
clear accountability, effective controls 
and mitigation actions. We have a central 
risk management team that strives to 
integrate risk management into our 
business decision-making and planning. 
This supports the business with best 
practice in risk and crisis management. 
A SAFe envi Ronment FoR  
Gue StS A nd em Ployee S 
The risks faced by our hotels are many 
and varied, ranging from fire, food hygiene 
and health and safety to issues arising 
from terrorism and organised crime. 
Providing our guests and visitors with an 
environment in which they feel safe and 
secure is essential.
A key focus of our risk management team 
and responsible business agenda is to 
ensure that all our hotels and corporate 
offices are safe and secure. We have 
developed our own IHG Brand Safety 
Standards for hotels and these are 
integrated with our quality inspection and 
compliance process. Quality inspectors visit 
all hotels to make sure they consistently 
meet our high standards. Recognising the 
importance of embedding safety into the 
business, we have developed numerous 
self-assessment checklists and risk 
management, safety and security training 
courses and materials that have been 
endorsed by the Chartered Institute of 
Environmental Health and other recognised 
external bodies. These are delivered by 
eLearning, face-to-face training and video.
ReSPon SiBle BRA nd S th At 
Gue StS tRuSt
We take sustainability, our responsibility 
to the environment and our responsibility 
to the communities in which we operate 
extremely seriously. 
Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) team 
works within the wider BRR team to 
deliver the Board’s policy on social and 
environmental responsibility. During 2011 
the Board’s CR priority was to ensure 
that IHG’s CR strategy is rooted in our 
strategic and brand planning processes, 
thereby protecting and creating value for 
IHG and its brands. 
A more detailed review of the CR team’s 
work during 2011 can be found on pages  
32 and 33. That review focuses on three  
key initiatives, Green Engage, the IHG 
Shelter in a Storm Programme and the  
IHG Academy programme.
inte RnA l cont Rol S  
And Gove RnA nce 
The Directors are fully committed to 
maintaining the highest standards of 
internal control and corporate governance. 
Supporting this commitment is the BRR 
team of lawyers, chartered secretaries 
and internal auditors who monitor changes 
to legal and regulatory compliance and 
the implementation of the Board’s internal 
controls and policies.
	 30	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
BuSine SS RePut Ation
t he Business Reputation and Responsibility (BRR) team has a unique perspective of ih G’s business. 
the team comprises specialists in risk management, sustainability, internal audit, legal and 
compliance, and representatives sit on all our main operating committees. we provide support to 
ensure our brands are trusted; we provide a safe and secure environment for guests and employees; 
and we maintain our global reputation by ensuring, amongst other things, that the Group has 
appropriate internal controls and governance so that hotel owners and shareholders feel confident 
about doing business with, and investing in, ih G. 
“the BRR team’s primary area of 
focus is to champion and protect 
the trusted reputation of ih G 
and its brands. we believe this is 
fundamental to our commitment 
to be a responsible business  
and an integral part of fulfilling 
our v ision to become one of  
the world’s great companies.”
 George Turner
 e xecutive vice President,  
General counsel and  
company Secretary The Global Internal Audit function helps us 
continuously to improve the management 
of risk by making sure our internal 
controls and governance processes are 
working effectively. This team is split  
into three core areas, focusing on hotel 
control, our corporate and regional 
functions, and technology and systems. 
IHG has engaged a leading specialist 
third-party provider to support it 
achieving Payment Card Industry – Data 
Security Compliance for core systems 
and is actively pursuing compliance in  
all managed and owned hotels.
As well as being kept up-to-date on legal 
and regulatory matters, the Board 
receives presentations on all aspects  
of the business at its meetings. To 
supplement the Board’s understanding  
of the business, Directors also visit our 
branded hotels and corporate offices 
around the world. During 2011 the Board 
attended meetings in China, the US and 
the UK. Separately, Non-Executive 
Directors have also visited our operations 
in India and Australia.
IHG has a number of internal policies 
aimed at ensuring that our employees 
behave appropriately and with integrity. 
These policies, which include our Code  
of Ethics and Business Conduct and 
Competition and Anti-bribery policies, 
are regularly reviewed and updated. 
During 2011 our Legal team provided 
training for over 6,000 employees around 
the world on the UK’s new anti-bribery 
legislation and IHG’s Anti-bribery policy.
ReSPon SiBle cultu Re 
We endeavour to instil our values and 
responsible business culture from the 
boardroom to every hotel guest room.  
We train and encourage the 345,000 
people who work in our hotels and 
corporate offices to champion and 
protect the trusted reputation of our 
business and our brands. Our responsible 
culture inspires trust and confidence in 
all our stakeholders and underpins our 
determination to be one of the world’s 
great companies. 
crowne Plaza Abu dhabi, yas island, uAe
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 31
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
hotel S AFety F RAmewo Rk 
w e communicate our hotel safety framework 
through a robust and practical framework 
covering specific safety and security risks facing 
hotels (Safe hotel). each of these risk groups  
has corresponding Brand Safety Standards 
comprising design and procedural requirements 
for hotels. t hese are supported by management 
activities, tools and training courses described  
as ‘manage Risk’.
‘manage Risk’ is also applied in our corporate 
offices and used to identify and manage 
corporate and other business risks we face as  
a Group. t his therefore provides a consistent 
framework for managing both hotel and 
corporate risks.
d uring 2011 ih G’s Risk management team’s crisis 
response plans were implemented successfully 
following natural disasters and civil unrest. 
d uring times of civil unrest or natural disaster 
the team worked closely with hotel owners and 
employees in the uS, Japan, new z ealand and 
the middle east to mitigate and minimise the 
impact of serious events, not only on our guests 
and employees, but also on our business.
SAFE 
HOTEL
SECURITY
CRISIS &
INCIDENT
FIRE 
SAFETY
LEISURE
SAFETY
GUEST 
SAFETY
FOOD 
SAFETY
STAFF 
SAFETY
MANAGE
RISK
RISK
PROFILE
POLICY &
STANDARDS
REVIEW 
& REPORT
WAYS OF
WORKING
RISK
FINANCING
TRAINING
& COMMS
OPERATE
& CONTROL
intercontinental mendoza, Argentina 	 32	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
GReAt BuSine SS Sen Se 
We believe the hotel industry is uniquely 
placed to make a real difference in the 
world. Travel and tourism is one of the 
world’s largest industries, generating 
nine per cent of global GDP and 
supporting 260 million jobs worldwide 
(World Travel & Tourism Council). By 
2021, travel and tourism is predicted to 
create 69 million more jobs (World Travel 
& Tourism Council). To calculate the 
contribution made by IHG hotels, we 
asked Oxford Economics to analyse the 
impact of our operations in the US, UK 
and Brazilian economies. Their report 
estimates that our hotels support close 
to two million jobs globally. Furthermore, 
we know that each dollar spent at an IHG 
hotel multiplies through the economy  
six to seven times. This reinforces our 
conviction that behaving responsibly as  
a business is not just the right thing to do; 
it makes great business sense. 
ou R cR St RAte Gy
We aim to harness the roles our hotels  
play in society to create shared value for 
IHG, our guests and communities wherever 
we operate – whether that’s conserving 
and protecting resources, building 
long-term wealth, creating meaningful 
work opportunities or providing shelter  
in a storm when disaster strikes. 
To achieve our aims, we innovate and 
collaborate. We develop ground-breaking 
technologies and concepts, like our online 
sustainability tool, Green Engage, and our 
online Innovation Hotel website. And we 
partner with some of the best organisations 
around to find new ways to tackle the 
challenges we all face. These include 
Cornell and Harvard universities, LEED 
(Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design) and our new disaster relief 
partner, CARE International. 
Our stakeholders play a key role in 
helping us define and address our 
priorities. During the year we increased 
stakeholder engagement by continuing to 
regularly update our CR report, creating 
our ‘IHG Planet CR’ Facebook page and 
developing a ‘CR in a Box’ toolkit for our 
hotel operators as a quick and easy guide 
to enable hotels to do more to support 
our CR efforts. We also conducted a 
shareholder review to find out what our 
investors think of our activities and 
launched a new, more interactive version 
of our Innovation Hotel. This online 
showcase helps us collaboratively 
generate ideas for sustainable hotels of 
the future by setting out our thinking and 
giving guests the chance to share their 
ideas. It also now includes real hotel case 
studies to show how we put our words 
and ideas into action.
GReen en GAGe 
In 2011 we made further inroads in our 
industry-leading approach to designing, 
building and operating more sustainable 
hotels. We launched version 2.0 of  
Green Engage, making it easier to use 
and adding more advanced features.  
Guests can now make CR decisions for 
themselves by booking Green Engage 
hotels through IHG websites, telephone 
reservations lines and pre-stay emails. 
Green Engage helps our hotels track and 
reduce their energy, waste and water 
consumption, giving them the means to 
conserve energy and save money – the 
system can help make hotels up to 25 per 
cent more energy efficient. Currently, over 
1,700 hotels are signed up to the system. 
Since rolling out Green Engage, we have 
made a demonstrable improvement in 
year-on-year energy reduction, as our 
Carbon Disclosure Project results show. 
Our score increased by 22 points to 76 out 
of 100. This reflects the detail we provide 
about our governance and strategy to 
reduce our environmental impacts.
ih G AcAdemy
Through the innovative IHG Academy,  
we join forces with local education 
providers to provide real life skills and 
create job opportunities in hospitality. 
This public-private partnership not only 
enhances employment prospects for 
local people, it also ensures we have a 
pipeline of talent in areas where a skilled 
workforce can be hard to find.
The IHG Academy has been a great 
success in China, where it was first 
launched in 2006. There are currently  
36 Academy programmes in numerous 
countries and over 5,500 participants took 
part in 2011. In 2011, we also expanded the 
programme to other territories in which 
we operate including our first ever UK 
IHG Academy which was opened by  
Chief Executive Richard Solomons.
co RPoRAte ReSPon SiBility
corporate responsibility (cR) is part of our culture and part of the way we do business. doing the right 
thing creates shared value, reinforces trust in our brands and helps our hotels manage costs, drive 
revenue and be prepared for the future. it helps us address social, economic and environmental 
challenges – keeping us in tune with our stakeholders and strengthening our corporate reputation. t hat is 
why we put cR at the heart of our v ision to become one of the world’s great companies. more and more 
of our guests and corporate clients want to make sustainable choices. Behaving responsibly shows we 
are listening to our stakeholders, strengthening our brands and helping to create hotels of the future. 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com h ow we operate	 33
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
ih G Shelte R in A Sto Rm PRoGRAmme 
We have a long history of helping 
communities in times of disaster. The IHG 
Shelter in a Storm Programme builds on 
this tradition, using our scale to pool our 
resources and efforts. When disaster 
strikes, we will provide guidance to help 
IHG hotels react swiftly and effectively so 
they can provide help such as emergency 
shelter, food and clean water to 
communities around our affected hotels. 
To develop and deliver this Programme  
we established a global partnership with 
CARE International, who advise us on how 
to act and help find appropriate charity 
partners in the disaster area. We have 
also set up an IHG Shelter Fund which is 
supported through employee fundraising 
activities. In 2011, we donated over 
$700,000 to support our hotels, 
colleagues and communities that were 
impacted by the earthquakes in New 
Zealand and the tsunami in Japan. Money 
from the IHG Shelter Fund was also used 
during the flooding in Thailand to help 
employees of our hotels in Bangkok repair 
damage to their homes and belongings.
un Glo BAl comPAct
To support our responsible business 
strategy, we are one of the first hotel 
companies to sign up to the UN Global 
Compact, the world’s largest corporate 
citizenship and sustainability initiative. 
This aligns our operations, culture and 
strategies with 10 universally accepted 
principles in the areas of human rights, 
labour, environment and anti-corruption.
did you know?
IHG achieved ‘Silver status’ in our first 
Business in the Community CR Index 
submission. The CR Index is the UK’s 
leading voluntary benchmark for 
corporate responsibility and over  
350 organisations have used the tool  
since 2002.
The Innovation Hotel 
showcases ih G’s ideas in 
sustainable tourism. it has 
been created so that our 
guests can tell us what they 
like and share their ideas.
www.ihg.com/innovation
FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
ih G AcA demy Ro Sed Ale colle Ge,  
united k in Gdom 
The launch of our first IHG Academy  
in the UK was the next step in our 
strategy to build on the success  
we had in China by expanding the 
programme to the UK. Rosedale 
College and Mellow Lane School  
are near our global headquarters in 
Denham. The IHG Academy provides 
hospitality training for students aged 
between 14-18 years and creates a 
pipeline of skilled talent for our hotels. 
leA din G the wAy on cARB on
In 2011 we co-sponsored Cornell 
University to undertake a study  
entitled ‘Developing a Sustainability 
Measurement Framework for Hotels: 
Toward an Industry-wide Reporting 
Structure’, which proposed a framework 
for the development of a standard 
carbon footprint methodology. This 
framework has been used in phase  
one of the Hotel Carbon Measurement 
Initiative led by IHG and the industry’s 
largest hotel groups and co-ordinated 
by the International Tourism Partnership 
and World Travel & Tourism Council.
Su PPoRtin G thA il And AF te R  
the F lood S
We have been able to use the IHG 
Shelter Fund to donate $20,000 to  
help our colleagues in Bangkok by 
providing much needed and immediate 
financial support and $10,000 to CARE 
International, our IHG Shelter in a 
Storm Programme’s strategic partner, 
to support their wider relief efforts 
across the city and surrounding 
provinces.
ih G Pl Anet cR FA ce Book PAG e
Our stakeholders play a key role in 
helping us define and address our 
priorities which is why we continue to 
invest in tools to keep them up-to-date. 
Our new ‘IHG Planet CR’ Facebook page 
provides a channel for us to share 
updates on our latest initiatives, events 
and achievements but importantly  
it also allows our online followers  
to share their views with us.
www.facebook.com/
IHGCorporateResponsibility 	 34	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
whe Re we oPe RAte
w e o PeRAte 4,480 hotelS A nd 658,348 R oom S inteRnA tion Ally . 
w hen Peo Ple t RA vel, they look FoR hotel BRA nd S they 
tRuS t. oPeRAtin G ou R BRAnd S to G lo BAl StA nd ARdS 
inc ReASeS Gue St dem And FoR the hotel S we FRA nchi Se, 
mAnAGe And own in ne ARl y 1 00 count Rie S And te RRito Rie S.
 Hotels  Rooms
intercontinental 52  17,598
crowne Plaza 188  50,002
h oliday inn 809  142,893
h oliday inn e xpress 1,874  162,935
h oliday inn club v acations 7  2,928
hotel i ndigo 33  3,973
Staybridge Suites 174  18,820
candlewood Suites 285  27,500
o ther 51  15,549
Total for The Americas 3,473  442,198
t otal development pipeline 775  84,450
find 	 out	 more	 on	 page	 36	
t he Americas
  Hotels  Rooms
intercontinental 30 9,664
crowne Plaza 86  19,725
h oliday inn 290  46,465
h oliday inn e xpress 198  23,181
hotel i ndigo 5  407
Staybridge Suites 3  443
other 0  0
Total for Europe 612  99,885
t otal development pipeline 98  16,682
find	 out	 more	 on	 page	 37
europe
As you’ll read in the next few pages, in 2011 we restructured our operations to reflect 
the profile of our major markets. we now have four operating regions: the Americas; 
europe; Asia, middle east and Africa (A me A); and Greater china. 	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com w here we operate 	 35
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
 Hotels  Rooms
intercontinental 64 20,425
crowne Plaza 61  16,921
h oliday inn 77  18,032
h oliday inn e xpress 8  1,857
Staybridge Suites 2  304
other 16  3,544
Total for AMEA 228 61,083
t otal development pipeline 122 29,584
find 	 out	 more	 on	 page	 38
Asia, middle east and Africa
 Hotels  Rooms
intercontinental 23 9,911
crowne Plaza 52  18,456
h oliday inn 57  17,938
h oliday inn e xpress 34  8,693
hotel i ndigo 1  184
other 0  0
Total for Greater China 167 55,182
t otal development pipeline 149 49,768
find 	 out	 more	 on	 page	 39
Greater china
4,480 hotels in nearly  
100 countries and territories
658,348 rooms globally
1,144 hotels in the pipeline
180,484 rooms in the pipeline Buildin G PeRFoRmAnce 
RevPAR grew 7.5 per cent, including rate 
growth of 2.8 per cent. 
We beat our own targets and performed 
well in every hotel sector, bar Crowne 
Plaza’s. The upscale brand is now  
in the first stage of a comprehensive 
repositioning (see page 10). 
We completed the Holiday Inn refresh, save 
for a handful of properties undergoing 
major renovation or reconstruction. 
Crucial to this, in the US, our biggest 
market, total RevPAR including the benefit 
of new hotels grew 9.5 per cent in the year, 
out-performing the industry as a whole. 
mAint Ainin G momentum 
Despite the tough financing environment, 
we have a larger pipeline than any other 
major competitor.
In all, we opened 168 hotels and signed  
a further 244. Highlights included: a 
20-year agreement to manage the 
InterContinental near Viña del Mar, Chile; 
the opening of Canada’s largest Holiday 
Inn; a new Holiday Inn Resort for 
Acapulco in Mexico; and the official 
launch of InterContinental Alliance 
Resorts (see page 8).
FiRSt FoR G ue St SA ti SFAction 
In the J.D. Power and Associates
¤
 2011 
North America Hotel Guest Satisfaction 
Index Study
SM
, Holiday Inn and Hotel 
Indigo both received awards. Hotel Indigo 
was ranked ‘Highest in Guest Satisfaction 
Among Upscale Hotel Chains’ and Holiday 
Inn was ranked ‘Highest in Guest 
Satisfaction among Mid-Scale Full 
Service Hotel Chains’. This confirms the 
impact of our brand development work. 
Room S FoR Soldie RS
We are honoured to be supporting  
troops and their families through the 
Privatization of Army Lodging into  
IHG Army Hotels. 
With partners Lend Lease, we opened a 
second wave of Army rooms under three 
brands this year: Holiday Inn Express, 
Staybridge Suites and Candlewood 
Suites. Separately, we launched a 
wounded warriors training programme 
offering management opportunities to 
candidates who might otherwise find  
it difficult to return to work.
The project has provided about 3,200 
rooms since 2009 and was extended  
by a further 5,000 in 2011. In all, we now 
manage more than 8,000 rooms and 
47 hotels on army bases.
This initiative provides high-grade 
lodging for all ranks, either by converting 
or rebuilding former Army-run properties. 
For IHG, it creates a new customer 
segment, while soldiers also benefit from 
Priority Club Rewards membership. 
Long term, we hope to expand by at  
least another 8,000 rooms in the US.
new yoRk PAR tne RShi P
We signed a joint venture with Brack 
Capital Real Estate to acquire and 
develop 180 Orchard Street in 
Manhattan’s Lower East Side. Due to 
open in 2013, it will house New York City’s 
second Hotel Indigo. Our investment was 
$30 million. We hope this is the start of  
a developing relationship with Brack.
	 36	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
new brand hallmarks, ih G People tools, industry-leading performance, a joint venture agreement 
for hotel indigo, fresh décor for our extended stay hotels, and more lodging for uS troops –  
it’s been a busy and rewarding year in t he Americas.
PeRFoRmA nce hi Ghli Ght S
•  Revenue per available room (RevPAR) up 7.5%
•  Revenue up 3% to $830m
•  Operating profit* up 22% to $451m
 *Before exceptional items 
t ot Al R oom S oPen 442,198
Rooms in pipeline 84,450
t ot Al hotel S oPen 3,473
hotels in pipeline 775
“i’ve inherited a very strong team. 
People here are doing great work 
driving our brands ahead of the 
competition. my thanks also go 
to our hotel owners and their 
employees for all they’re doing  
to improve the guest experience.”
 Kirk Kinsell
 President, t he Americas
n umBeR oF R oom S By BuS ine SS model
Franchised 398,680
managed 41,222
o wned & leased 2,296
t he Ame Ric AS
holiday inn Resort Acapulco, mexico key mARket S PeRFoRm well
RevPAR grew 4.7 per cent, including  
rate growth of 2.9 per cent. Occupancy 
continued at a high level – consistently  
so on weekdays. 
Our London 2012 activities alone 
generated over £8 million in extra 
revenue for our hotels in 2011. Further 
hot spots were France, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, Russia and Turkey. 
The overall pace of growth slowed, 
however, as the Eurozone crisis unfolded. 
Whatever economic conditions lie ahead, 
we are cautiously optimistic and in good 
shape to capture a fair share of Europe’s 
future hotel market.
hotel indi Go ex PAnd S 
We signed a franchise agreement to 
introduce Hotel Indigo to Russia in 2012.  
Hotel Indigo St Petersburg Tchaikovsky 
will create 124 rooms and 80 jobs. 
Having launched into Europe with Hotel 
Indigo London Paddington in 2008, we 
now have five hotels open and 11 in  
the pipeline. 
Three new properties opened in the UK in 
2011 and our first for continental Europe 
opened in Berlin in January 2012. 
The brand has strong appeal for owners, 
especially in the current climate. It offers 
high-quality hotels, low operating costs 
and is suited to both conversion and 
new-builds. In Lisbon, for example, we  
will bring a converted convent to market 
in 2014.
miSSion RuSSiA
Angela Brav joined UK Prime Minister 
David Cameron and other officials on a 
trade mission to Russia in November. 
The event coincided with news that we 
plan to have 100 hotels open across 
Russia and the Commonwealth of 
Independent States by 2020, creating 
8,000 new jobs. In addition, we will open  
a Moscow branch of the IHG Academy 
programme in 2012.
Moscow is forecast to double in size by 
2025, creating great scope for hotel growth.
Having first entered Russia in 1998 with 
the Holiday Inn Vinogradovo Moscow,  
we now have 13 hotels open and five in 
the pipeline. 
One of our latest, the InterContinental 
Moscow-Tverskaya, welcomed its first 
guests in December. We’re also 
expanding beyond Moscow and 
St Petersburg into new cities such  
as Chelyabinsk, Novosibirsk and 
Ekaterinburg.
olym Pic SPR int
Holiday Inn London Stratford City and 
Staybridge Suites London Stratford City will 
both open in May, in time for the London 
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
Our first Staybridge Suites for London, 
this flagship East London regeneration 
project caters for both extended stay and 
transient guests. All of our 31 London 
hotels with LOCOG accommodation 
agreements are 86 per cent booked for 
official, media and Olympic visitors for 
the duration of the Games (see page 16).
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com w here we operate	 37
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
our sights are set on operating high-quality hotels that out-perform their sectors in this new, 
predominantly franchised region. w e are working to improve brand performance and boost scale  
in key markets, notably Germany, the uk and emerging Russia and t urkey.
PeRFoRmA nce hi Ghli Ght S
•  Revenue per available room (RevPAR) up 4.7%
•  Revenue up 24% to $405m
•  Operating profit* up 33% to $104m
 *Before exceptional items 
t ot Al R oom S oPen 99,885
Rooms in pipeline 16,682
t ot Al hotel S oPen 612
hotels in pipeline 98
“w e need to engage owners in driving 
RevPAR by helping them to get the 
right mix between occupancy and 
rate. it’s important to make sure our 
brands are delivered consistently, 
because this will provide a greater 
return on investment.”
 Angela brav
 chief e xecutive, e urope
n umBeR oF R oom S By BuS ine SS model
Franchised 76,811
managed 22,157
o wned & leased 917
euRoPe
t he intercontinental Paris l e Grand will celebrate  
its 150th anniversary in 2012. 	 38	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
Rev PAR move S uP 
RevPAR increased 0.9 per cent, including 
rate growth of 1.3 per cent. 
Exceptional gains came from Vietnam 
(32.4 per cent), Thailand (19.4 per cent) 
and New Zealand (18.6 per cent). 
Our Holiday Inn relaunch helped to lift 
the brand’s RevPAR by 8.4 per cent 
year-on-year. 
A combination of buoyant inter-regional 
travel and the strength of the Australian 
dollar contributed to the uplift.
new ReGion , GReAte R ScAle 
Our operations in AMEA span close to 40 
countries and form a like-minded hotel 
business with scope to develop our scale.
Some 75 per cent of our hotels are 
managed and owners tend to be 
high-worth individuals rather than 
institutional investors. 
The region is also home to many resort 
destinations. With our experience of 
operating resorts in locations such as 
French Polynesia, Fiji and Bali, we are well 
placed for future growth in luxury resorts 
beyond the 38 we currently operate.
indi A RiSeS
In India alone we expect to open nearly  
50 hotels in the next five years, more than 
tripling in size as the domestic market 
and India’s middle-class expands. We 
signed nine hotels across India this year  
and will launch Holiday Inn Express in 
September 2012, following a strategic 
partnership with Duet India Hotels Group 
(see page 17). 
Overall, we are on course to fly our flags 
at 135 hotels in India by 2020.
mAn AGin G cRiSeS 
The year was marred by tragic natural 
disasters in Japan, New Zealand and 
Thailand along with political unrest in the 
Middle East. Our people worked tirelessly 
to ensure guest safety, going beyond  
the call of duty in assisting the relief 
effort. Our hotels were supported with 
donations from the IHG Shelter Fund  
(see pages 32 and 33).
SiGnS oF ex PAnS ion
In all, we opened 10 properties, including 
the Crowne Plaza Danang, Vietnam and 
the Holiday Inn Resort Phuket Mao Khao, 
Thailand.
Region-wide we signed 36 hotels to our 
pipeline across six brands. 
Of these, milestone signings included the 
Middle East’s first Hotel Indigo in Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia, a first ever Hotel Indigo 
resort for Phuket, Thailand and a record 
number of Holiday Inn Express signings, 
including our first in Perth, Australia. 
Buildin G mAn AGement Skill S
IHG was named best employer in 
Singapore, Malaysia, Australia and New 
Zealand by the Aon Hewitt study, which 
surveys over two million employees and 
900 businesses.
Our people are willing to work across the 
region as they train. This year we started 
a two-year fast-track mentoring scheme 
to develop colleagues into supervisory 
roles before redeploying them in their 
local areas, initially focusing on skills 
development for India and Saudi Arabia. 
this new operating region brings together a portfolio of mainly managed hotels in some of the 
world’s fastest growing markets. we are growing scale in emerging markets, launching our brands 
into new ones, expanding our luxury resorts presence, and developing our people.
“we performed well and continued 
to open and sign new properties. 
Sadly, there were several natural 
disasters in the year. i’m proud to 
say that, together with our owners, 
we rallied round our people, guests 
and local communities.”
 Jan Smits
 chief e xecutive,  
Asia, middle east  
and Africa
ASiA, middle eASt A nd AFR ic A
PeRFoRmA nce hi Ghli Ght S
•  Revenue per available room (RevPAR) up 0.9%
•  Revenue up 1 % to $216m
•  Operating profit* up 2% to $84m
 *Before exceptional items 
t ot Al R oom S oPen 61,083
Rooms in pipeline 29,584
t ot Al hotel S oPen 228
hotels in pipeline 122
n umBeR oF R oom S By BuS ine SS model
Franchised 12,617
managed 47,890
o wned & leased 576
holiday inn Resort Phuket mao k hao, t hailand SuPeR io R PeRFoRmAnce 
RevPAR grew 10.7 per cent, including rate 
growth of 5.9 per cent. Adjusted to account 
for the one-off effect of 2010’s Shanghai 
World Expo, a pattern of consistently 
strong region-wide growth emerges.
Performance was evenly balanced 
across the brands and territorially we 
were strong right across mainland  
China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau.
Our business remains largely domestic, 
with 72 per cent of guests coming from 
within mainland China. The burgeoning 
economy, coupled with rapid urban 
development, is transforming the  
country – and the hotel sector is a  
major beneficiary. 
SmARt choice
The Holiday Inn Express brand changed 
to the Chinese name Zhi Xuan Jia Ri, 
which translates in English as Holiday  
Inn Smart Choice. 
‘Express’ in China had become 
synonymous with budget brands. After 
extensive consumer research, we are 
confident that the new name captures 
the essence of our limited-service hotels 
for Chinese guests but also carries the 
heritage of the world-renowned Holiday 
Inn brand. 
on t ARGet to dou Ble in Size
We added 26 hotels and 8,084 rooms  
in 2011, ending the year with 167 hotels.  
In all, we opened four InterContinental,  
11 Crowne Plaza, seven Holiday Inn and  
five Holiday Inn Express hotels. 
With a pipeline of another 149, we remain 
on target to double in size over the next 
four to five years.
Having been operational here for 27 
years, our share of branded hotel rooms 
pipeline stands at 25 per cent.
St RAte Gic SiGnin GS
In May we signed with one of China’s 
leading state-owned developers, Poly Real 
Estate, to manage six new hotels under 
three brands. Located in the provinces of 
Guangdong and Jiangxi, they will include 
three InterContinental hotels and increase 
this prestigious owner’s hotels with us 
from three to nine.
In December we partnered with Yanlord 
Land Group to manage a Crowne Plaza 
and Hotel Indigo in the Haitang Bay area 
of Sanya, one of China’s most popular 
resort destinations.
All eight signings are scheduled to be  
up and running by 2015.
loc Al em Ph ASiS
We launched a refreshed Chinese 
language website to address the very 
specific way that China’s domestic 
travellers use the internet and book 
hotels.
A local approach is equally vital in our 
search for talent. In 2011, we unveiled  
a new Chinese language e-recruitment 
site, together with six additional 
partnerships under the IHG Academy 
programme – bringing the number  
of academies across China to 28  
(see page 32).
	 more	 on	 the	 web:	 www.ihgplc.com w here we operate	 39
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS	 AND	 FIGURES
the scale we are building in Greater china began to reap big rewards in 2011. the strength of  
our brands, our people and financial returns reflect the years of work that have gone into creating 
a leading hotel business in this buoyant market.
“this was a year of balanced growth 
across all brands and all markets. 
on the one hand, we’ve created 
scale and added value for our 
stakeholders. on the other, we’ve 
retained a local emphasis and 
stayed true to the chinese market.”
 Keith barr
 chief executive, Greater c hina
GReAte R chin A
PeRFoRmA nce hi Ghli Ght S
•  Revenue per available room (RevPAR) up 10.7%
•  Revenue up 15% to $205m
•  Operating profit* up 24% to $67m
 *Before exceptional items 
t ot Al R oom S oPen 55,182
Rooms in pipeline 49,768
t ot Al hotel S oPen 167
hotels in pipeline 149
n umBeR oF R oom S By BuS ine SS model
Franchised 963
managed 53,724
o wned & leased 495
crowne Plaza Beijing Parkview w uzhou, china 	40	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
GRoup ReSult S
Revenue increased by 8.6% to $1,768m 
and operating profit before exceptional 
items increased by 25.9% to $559m 
during the 12 months ended 
31 December 2011. 
The 2011 results reflect continued 
revenue per available room (RevPAR) 
growth, with an overall RevPAR increase 
of 6.2%, including a 2.5% increase in 
average daily rate. The results also 
benefit from overall system size growth 
of 1.7% year on year to 658,348 rooms. 
RevPar growth remained strong 
throughout the year across the Group 
although there was some deterioration  
in Europe in the fourth quarter reflecting 
macroeconomic conditions.
Central overheads increased from $139m 
in 2010 to $147m in 2011, driven by 
increased investment to support growth 
in the business, offsetting non-recurring 
bonus costs.
As a result of growth in the business, 
together with strong cost control, 
operating profit margin was 40.6%, up 
4.9 percentage points on 2010, after 
adjusting for owned and leased hotels, 
The Americas and Europe managed 
leases and significant liquidated damages 
received in 2011. This growth approximates 
to one percentage point after adjusting 
for a number of one-off benefits.
During 2011, the IHG global system 
increased by 43 hotels (11,187 rooms). 
Openings of 241 hotels (44,265 rooms) 
were driven by continued expansion in 
the US, in particular within the Holiday 
Inn brand family and Greater China. 
These openings offset the removal of  
198 hotels (33,078 rooms). Removals  
in the US included 43 hotels (6,994 rooms) 
which were removed from the system  
as part of the renegotiation of the 
management contract with Hospitality 
Properties Trust, a major US owner 
group. Other openings included the 
Venetian and Palazzo resorts, under an 
InterContinental Alliance relationship, 
(6,986 rooms, included in franchised) as 
well as 25 hotels (4,796 rooms) managed 
on US army bases. 
At the end of 2011, the pipeline totalled 
1,144 hotels (180,484 rooms). The 
continued global demand for IHG brands 
is demonstrated by over 50% of pipeline 
rooms being outside of The Americas 
region, including 28% in Greater China.
Signings of 356 hotels (55,424 rooms) 
represented an increase in the number  
of hotels signed from 2010 levels (319 
hotels). Momentum for the Hotel Indigo 
brand continued into 2011 with 19 signings, 
including entry into the Russian market, 
as well as the first Hotel Indigo resort in 
Phuket, Thailand.
During 2011, the opening of 44,265 rooms 
contributed to a net pipeline decline of 
24,375 rooms. Active management out  
of the pipeline of deals that have become 
dormant or no longer viable, resulted in  
a further reduction of 35,534 rooms.
AmeRic AS ReSult S
Revenue and operating profit before 
exceptional items increased by $23m 
(2.9%) to $830m and by $82m (22.2%)  
to $451m respectively.
Franchised revenue increased by $37m 
(8.0%) to $502m. Royalties growth of 
8.5% was driven by RevPAR gains across 
the estate of 7.2%, including 7.9% for 
Holiday Inn Express, and was further 
boosted by continued improvement in  
the royalty rate achieved. Operating  
profit increased by $39m (9.9%) to $431m  
also benefiting from lower bad debt 
experience.
Managed revenue increased by $5m 
(4.2%) to $124m and operating profit 
increased by $31m (147.6%) to $52m. 
Excluding properties structured for legal 
reasons as operating leases but with the 
same characteristics as management 
contracts, as well as the benefit of a 
$10m liquidated damages receipt in 2011 
and a $10m year-on-year benefit from 
the conclusion of a specific guarantee 
negotiation relating to one hotel, revenue 
grew by $7m. Growth was driven by a 
RevPAR increase of 8.8% across the 
estate. Although year-end system size 
was 6.0% lower than at the end of 2010, 
due to the phasing of removals towards 
the end of the year, rooms available 
during the year actually grew by 4.5%. 
Operating profit grew by $11m on the 
same basis, also benefiting from 
increased joint venture distributions. 
Owned and leased revenue declined by 
$19m (8.5%) and operating profit grew  
by $4m (30.8%) to $17m. Excluding the 
year-on-year impact of hotel disposals, 
owned and leased revenue grew by  
$8m (4.2%) and operating profit by  
$7m (77.8%) reflecting RevPAR growth  
of 10.3%, including 11.2% at the 
InterContinental New York Barclay. 
SummARy Fin Anci Al StA tement
We delivered a 26% growth in operating profit before exceptional items and a five percentage 
point increase in operating margin over last year. these results were driven by the strength of our 
preferred brands, underpinned by our global systems and scale, resulting in 6.2% RevpAR growth, 
beating the industry in key markets such as the uS and Greater china, and a 2% increase in hotel 
room count. 	 Summary financial statement	 41
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
euR ope ReSult S
Revenue and operating profit before 
exceptional items increased by $79m 
(24.2%) to $405m and by $26m (33.3%)  
to $104m respectively.
Franchised revenue increased by $10m 
(13.2%) to $86m and operating profit by 
$10m (18.2%) to $65m. Growth was mainly 
driven by royalties growth of 11.4% 
reflecting RevPAR growth of 4.0%, together 
with an increase in system size. Revenues 
associated with new signings, relicensing 
and terminations increased by $2m.
Managed revenue increased by $48m  
to $118m (68.6%) and operating profit 
increased by $9m to $26m (52.9%) 
reflecting RevPAR growth of 5.5%, 
together with the year-on-year benefit  
of a $3m charge in 2010 with regard  
to guarantee obligations for one hotel.  
2011 also included revenue of $46m and 
operating profit of $nil from two properties 
which were converted from management 
contracts to an operating lease structure 
with the same characteristics as 
management contracts.
In the owned and leased estate, revenue 
increased by $21m (11.7%) to $201m and 
operating profit increased by $11m (28.9%). 
RevPAR growth of 10.9% benefited from 
average daily rate growth of 10.3% across 
the year. The InterContinental London 
Park Lane and the InterContinental  
Paris Le Grand delivered strong  
year-on-year RevPAR growth of 7.3%  
and 14.5% respectively. 
Ame A ReSult S
Revenue and operating profit before 
exceptional items increased by $3m (1.4%) 
to $216m and by $2m (2.4%) to $84m 
respectively. The region’s results were 
adversely impacted by the political 
instability throughout 2011 in the Middle 
East, together with the natural disasters 
in Japan and New Zealand.
Franchised revenue increased by $4m 
(26.7%) to $19m and operating profit by 
$4m (50.0%) to $12m. RevPAR in the 
franchised estate grew by 1.7%. Excluding 
Egypt, Bahrain and Japan, RevPAR grew 
by 4.4%.
Managed revenue decreased by $4m 
(2.6%) to $151m and operating profit 
decreased by $1m (1.1%) to $87m. The 
events of the Arab Spring together with 
the natural disasters in Japan and New 
Zealand had an estimated adverse impact 
of $11m on the results, whilst there was  
a further $4m adverse impact due to 
changes to certain management contract 
terms. Results did however benefit from a 
liquidated damages receipt of $6m during 
the year. RevPAR grew by 0.6% compared 
to 2010 and by 5.7% excluding Egypt, 
Bahrain and Japan. 
In the owned and leased estate, revenue 
increased by $3m (7.0%) to $46m and 
operating profit increased by $1m (25.0%).
GReAte R chin A ReSult S
Revenue and operating profit before 
exceptional items increased by $27m 
(15.2%) to $205m and by $13m (24.1%)  
to $67m respectively.
Managed revenue increased by $17m 
(28.3%) to $77m and operating profit 
increased by $13m (43.3%) to $43m. 
Continued strong economic growth in  
the region helped to drive RevPAR growth 
of 10.3%. Excluding Shanghai, where 
RevPAR growth was tempered by strong 
comparatives due to the World Expo held 
in May to October 2010, comparable 
RevPAR grew by 17.4%. There was also 
continued significant system size growth 
for the managed estate in the region (14.2% 
rooms growth in 2011 and 12.6% in 2010). 
Owned and leased revenue increased  
by $10m (8.6%) to $126m and operating 
profit increased by $4m (12.1%) to $37m. 
The InterContinental Hong Kong 
generated RevPAR growth of 13.4%.
cent RAl Re Sult S
During 2011, net central costs increased 
by $8m from $139m to $147m (5.8%).  
The movement was primarily driven by 
increased investment to support growth 
in the business. Central revenue mainly 
comprised technology fee income.
othe R Fin Anci Al item S
Exceptional operating items totalled a net 
gain of $35m. Exceptional gains included 
$37m from the disposal of hotels, including 
$29m profit on the sale of the Holiday Inn 
Burswood, a UK VAT refund of $9m, $20m 
net impairment reversals and a $28m 
pension curtailment gain in relation to the 
closure of the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme. Exceptional charges included a 
$22m litigation provision and $37m in 
respect of the settlement of a prior period 
commercial dispute in Europe.
Net financial expenses remained flat  
at $62m as costs relating to the new 
syndicated bank facility offset the impact 
of lower levels of net debt.
The effective rate of tax was 24% (2010 26%). 
Basic earnings per ordinary share in 2011 
was 159.2¢, compared with 101.7¢ in 2010. 
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 
was 130.4¢, against 98.6¢ in 2010. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend 
per ordinary share of 39.0¢ (24.7p). With 
the interim dividend per ordinary share  
of 16.0¢ (9.8p), the full-year dividend per 
ordinary share for 2011 will total 55.0¢ 
(34.5p).
cApit Al StR uctu Re And liquidity 
mAn AGement
During the year, $479m of cash was 
generated from operating activities, with 
the other key elements of the cash flow 
being proceeds from the disposal of 
hotels of $142m and capital expenditure 
of $194m. Overall, net debt decreased by 
$205m to $538m.
this Summary Financial 
Statement was approved by the 
Board on 13 February 2012 and 
signed on its behalf by tom Singer. 
it does not contain sufficient 
information to provide as complete 
an understanding of the Group’s 
results and state of affairs as that 
provided in the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2011. 
that report may be obtained, free 
of charge, by writing to ih G or 
the company’s Registrar, equiniti 
(contact details are provided on 
page 57).
the auditors have issued an 
unqualified report on the financial 
statements containing no statement 
under section 498(2) or 498(3) of the 
companies Act 2006. information 
concerning d irectors’ emoluments 
is shown on pages 48 to 55. 	42	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
Summarised Group income statement 
	     2011   2010
   	 Before	 	 Before   
   	 exceptional	 Exceptional	 exceptional Exceptional  
   	 items	 items	 Total items items Total 
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011 	 $m	 $m	 $m $m $m $m
Revenue       
Americas   830	 –	 830 807 – 807
Europe  405	 –	 405 326 – 326
AMEA   216	 –	 216 213 – 213
Greater China   205	 –	 205 178 – 178
Central   112	 –	 112 104 – 104
Total revenue   1,768	 –	 1,768 1,628 – 1,628
Operating	 profit	   			
Americas   451	 13	 464 369 14 383
Europe   104	 (39)	 65 78 (5) 73
AMEA   84	 26	 110 82 6 88
Greater China   67	 –	 67 54 – 54
Central   (147)	 35	 (112) (139) – (139)
Operating	 profit  559	 35	 594 444 15 459
Net finance costs   (62)	 –	 (62) (62) – (62)
Profit	 before	 tax   497	 35	 532 382 15 397
Tax   (120)	 48	 (72) (98) (8) (106)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 from	
continuing	 operations   377	 83	 460 284 7 291
Profit for the year from  
discontinued operations   –	 –	 – – 2 2
Profit	 for	 the	 year	  377	 83	 460 284 9 293
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share	 (cents)       
Basic – continuing operations  	 	 	 159.2   101.0
Adjusted – continuing operations  	 130.4	 	 98.6  
Basic – total operations  	 	 	 159.2   101.7
Adjusted – total operations  	 130.4	 	 98.6  
Dividend	 per	 share	 (cents)       
Final – paid in respect of prior year     35.2   29.2
Interim paid     16.0   12.8
Final – proposed     39.0   35.2
SummARy Fin Anci Al StA t ement continued
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2011 which comprises the summarised Group income statement, 
summarised Group statement of cash flows and summarised Group statement  
of financial position.
This statement is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 428(4) of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s statement and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective	 responsibilities	 of	 Directors	 and	 the	 auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary 
Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary 
Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 
with the full annual financial statements, the Directors’ Remuneration report  
and the Directors’ report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of 
section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary 
Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the  
Summary Financial Statement. The other information comprises only the 
Headlines, Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review, Business reviews, 
Summary Directors’ report, Corporate Governance statement, Summary Audit 
Committee report and Summary Remuneration report.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008/3 issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. Our report on the Company’s full annual financial statements 
describes the basis of our opinion on those financial statements, the Directors’ 
Remuneration report and the Directors’ report.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual 
financial statements, the Directors’ report and the Directors’ Remuneration report 
of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 and 
complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 
2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst	&	 Young	 LLP Statutory Auditor, London 13 February 2012.
directors’ statement
The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the full annual financial statements, 
the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration report and on the consistency 
of the Directors’ report with those annual financial statements. Their report 
on the full annual financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report contained no statement under sections 498(2) or 498(3)  
of the Companies Act 2006.
independent auditor’s statement to the members of intercontinental hotels Group plc 	 Summary financial statement	 43
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
Summarised Group statement of cash flows  
		      2011 2010 
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011      $m $m
Cash flow from operations      623 583
Net interest paid      (55) (57)
Tax paid on operating activities      (89) (64)
Net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities      479 462
Capital expenditure      (194) (95)
Proceeds from disposal of operations and other financial assets    157 135
Tax paid on disposals      (1) (4)
Dividends paid to shareholders      (148) (121)
Decrease in borrowings      (119) (292)
Other financing movements      (67) (34)
Net	 movement	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 in	 the	 year     107 51
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year     78 40
Exchange rate effects      (3) (13)
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 end	 of	 the	 year	    182 78
Summarised Group statement of financial position 
		      2011 2010 
31	 December	 2011      $m $m
ASSETS  
Property, plant and equipment      1,362 1,690
Goodwill and intangible assets      400 358
Investment in associates and joint ventures      87 43
Retirement benefit assets      21 5
Other financial assets      156 135
Non-current tax assets      147 79
Total	 non-current	 assets      2,173 2,310
Inventories      4 4
Trade and other receivables      369 371
Current tax receivable      20 13
Derivative financial instruments      3 –
Cash and cash equivalents      182 78
Total	 current	 assets      578 466
Non-current assets classified as held for sale     217 –
Total	 assets      2,968 2,776
LIABILITIES  
Loans and other borrowings      (21) (18)
Derivative financial instruments      – (6)
Trade and other payables      (707) (722)
Provisions      (12) (8)
Current tax payable      (120) (167)
Total	 current	 liabilities      (860) (921)
Loans and other borrowings      (670) (776)
Derivative financial instruments      (39) (38)
Retirement benefit obligations      (188) (200)
Trade and other payables      (497) (464)
Provisions      (2) (2)
Deferred tax liabilities      (97) (84)
Total	 non-current	 liabilities      (1,493) (1,564)
Liabilities classified as held for sale      (60) –
Total	 liabilities      (2,413) (2,485)
Net	 assets      555 291
IHG	 shareholders’	 equity      547 284
Non-controlling interest      8 7
Total	 equity      555 291 	44	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
From left to right: t om conophy, david Webster, david Kappler, Angela Brav, Jonathan l inen, George t urner, t racy Robbins, t homas Singer,  ying yeh, Kirk Kinsell, Keith Barr, Jennifer l aing, Richard Solomons, dale morrison, Jan Smits, l uke mayhew and Graham Allan
ouR S enio R le Ade RShip te Am
n on- executive S
David Webster 
n on-executive chairman
#
  
chairman of the n omination committee
Appointed a Director in April 2003. 
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman  
in January 2004. Also Non-Executive 
Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited,  
a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT 
Holding SA and a Director of Temple Bar 
Investment Trust PLC. Formerly Chairman 
of Safeway plc and a Non-Executive 
Director of Reed Elsevier PLC. Age 67. 
David Kappler
Senior independent n on-executive director*
#•
  
chairman of the Audit committee 
Appointed a Director and Senior 
Independent Director in June 2004. He is 
also a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc. 
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury 
Schweppes plc and Non-Executive Chairman 
of Premier Foods plc. A member of the 
Trilantic Europe Advisory Council. Age 64.
Graham Allan
independent n on-executive director*
#∞
 
Appointed a Director in January 2010.  
Chief Executive Officer of Yum! Restaurants 
International (YRI), a subsidiary of Yum! 
Brands, Inc. Previously President of YRI 
from 2003 to 2010. Age 56.
Jennifer Laing
independent n on-executive director*
#∞
 
chairman of the corporate Responsibility 
committee
Appointed a Director in August 2005. Has 
over 30 years’ experience in advertising and 
was, until 2007, Associate Dean, External 
Relations at London Business School. Also 
serves as a Non-Executive Director of 
Hudson Highland Group, Inc. Age 64.
Jonathan Linen
independent n on-executive director
#•
Appointed a Director in December 2005.  
Was formerly Vice Chairman of the 
American Express Company. Serves as a 
Non-Executive Director of Yum! Brands, Inc. 
and of Modern Bank, N.A., and on a number 
of US Councils and advisory boards. Age 68.
Luke Mayhew
independent n on-executive director
#•∞
 
chairman of the Remuneration committee
Appointed a Director in July 2011. A Non-
Executive Director of Brambles Limited. 
Previously Managing Director of the 
Department Store Division of John Lewis 
Partnership. Was a Non-Executive Director 
of WH Smith PLC and Chairman of Pets  
at Home Group Limited. Age 58.
Dale Morrison
independent n on-executive director*
#
Appointed a Director in June 2011. A 
founding partner of TriPointe Capital 
Partners. Was previously President and 
Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods 
Limited. A Non-Executive Director of 
International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. 
Age 63.
Ying Yeh
independent n on-executive director
#•∞
Appointed a Director in December 2007. 
Was previously Vice President and 
Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco 
Company and Chairman and President, 
North Asia Region, President, Business 
Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice 
President, Eastman Kodak Company. Also 
a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo and 
ABB Ltd. Age 63.
 
*  A member of the Audit Committee
#
  A member of the Nomination Committee
•
  A member of the Remuneration Committee
∞
  A member of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee
†
  A member of the Executive Committee 
§
 Not a main Board Director 	 our senior leadership team	 45
OVERVIEW GREAT	 BRANDS HOW	 WE	 OPERATE WHERE	 WE	 OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
From left to right: t om conophy, david Webster, david Kappler, Angela Brav, Jonathan l inen, George t urner, t racy Robbins, t homas Singer,  ying yeh, Kirk Kinsell, Keith Barr, Jennifer l aing, Richard Solomons, dale morrison, Jan Smits, l uke mayhew and Graham Allan
executive S
Keith Barr
chief executive, Greater china
†§
Joined the Group in 2000. Became Chief 
Executive, Greater China in April 2011. 
Responsible for the business development 
and performance of all the hotel brands 
and properties in the Greater China region. 
Age 41.
Angela Brav
chief executive, europe
†§
Joined the Group in 1988. Appointed 
Chief Executive, Europe in August 2011, 
responsible for the business development 
and performance of all the hotel brands 
and properties in Europe. Age 49.
Tom Conophy
executive v ice president and  
chief information officer
†§
Joined the Group in February 2006 from 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts International. 
Responsible for global technology, 
including IT systems and information 
management throughout the Group. Age 51.
Kirk Kinsell
president, t he Americas
†
Appointed a Director in August 2010. 
Joined the Group in 2002. Appointed an 
Executive Committee member in 2007 and 
was President, Europe, Middle East and 
Africa until June 2011. Responsible for the 
business development and performance  
of all the hotel brands and properties in  
The Americas region. Age 57.
Tracy Robbins
executive v ice president, h uman Resources  
and h ead of operations Support
†
Appointed a Director in August 2011. 
Joined the Group in December 2005 from 
Compass Group PLC. Responsible for 
global talent management, leadership 
development, employee reward strategy 
and implementation, organisational 
capability and operations support. Age 48.
Thomas Singer
chief Financial officer
†
Appointed Chief Financial Officer in 
September 2011. Joined the Group from 
Bupa, where he was Group Finance Director 
and a main board member. Previously Group 
Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer 
at William Hill PLC and Finance Director  
at Moss Bros Group PLC. Age 48.
Jan Smits 
chief executive, Asia, middle east and Africa
†§
Joined the Group in 2002. Became Chief 
Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in 
August 2011. Responsible for the business 
development and performance of all the 
hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle 
East and Africa. Age 51.
Richard Solomons
chief executive
†∞
 
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2011. 
Joined the Group in 1992 and held a 
number of senior roles with his previous 
role as Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Commercial Development. Serves on the 
Executive Committee of the World Travel  
& Tourism Council. Age 50.
George Turner
executive v ice president, General counsel  
and company Secretary
†§
Joined the Group in September 2008 
from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC. 
Appointed Executive Vice President, General 
Counsel and Company Secretary in January 
2009. Responsible for corporate governance, 
risk management, insurance, data 
privacy, internal audit, legal and corporate 
responsibility and public affairs. Age 41.
 
In addition, IHG has a strong management 
team who report into the IHG Senior Leadership 
Team. Eric Pearson is the Interim Head of 
Global Brands and Steven Sickel is Interim 
Global Head of Sales and Distribution, both 
reporting directly to Richard Solomons. 	46	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
Activities of the Group
The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, with 
franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests in 
over 4,400 establishments, with more than 658,000 guest rooms  
in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the 
Chairman’s statement and the Chief Executive’s review on pages 
3 to 5, the reviews presented on pages 6 to 39 and in the Summary 
Financial Statement on pages 40 to 43. 
Results and dividends
The operating profit before exceptional items was $559m. An 
interim dividend of 9.8p per share (16.0 cents per ADR) was paid on 
7 October 2011. The Directors are recommending a final dividend  
of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR) to be paid on 1 June 2012 to 
shareholders on the Register of Members at close of business on 
23 March 2012. 
Share capital
At 31 December 2011, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC’s  
(the Company) issued share capital consisted of 290,548,089 
ordinary shares of 13
29
⁄47p each. There are no special control rights 
or restrictions on transfer attaching to these ordinary shares. 
During the year, no awards or grants over shares were made that 
would be dilutive of the Company’s ordinary share capital.
Share repurchases
No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority 
granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 
27 May 2011. The share buyback authority remains in force until  
the Annual General Meeting in 2012, and a resolution to renew the 
authority will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings 
The Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, of 
the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary 
shares:
 At At 
 31 December 13 February Nature of 
 2011 2012 interest
Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. 14.01% 14.01% Indirect
Cedar Rock Capital Limited  5.07% 5.07% Direct
BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% 5.02%  Indirect
Capital Research and  5.02% 5.02% Indirect 
Management Company
Legal & General Group plc 3.96% 3.96% Direct
Directors
Biographical details of current Board members are shown on 
pages 44 and 45. Executive Directors have service contracts and 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. 
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company. The Group 
maintains insurance cover for and has provided indemnities to all of 
its directors and officers, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. 
Details of the beneficial share interests of Directors who were on 
the Board at the year end are shown below. 
   31 December 2011 
   InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
   ordinary shares
Executive	 Directors
Kirk Kinsell
1
  109,547
Tracy Robbins  43,108
Thomas Singer  –
Richard Solomons  252,166
Non-Executive	 Directors
Graham Allan
2
  12,000
David Kappler  1,400
Jennifer Laing  3,373
Jonathan Linen
3
  7,343
Luke Mayhew  2,000
Dale Morrison  –
David Webster  35,828
Ying Yeh  –
1 108,910 ordinary shares and 637 American Depositary Receipts.
2 2,000 ordinary shares and 10,000 American Depositary Receipts.
3 Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
Employees
IHG directly employed an average of 7,956 people worldwide during 
2011, whose costs are borne by the Group. When the whole IHG 
estate is taken into account, approximately 345,000 people are 
employed globally across IHG’s brands. The Group is committed  
to providing employees with equality of opportunity, without 
discrimination. Great emphasis is placed on employee 
communications, particularly on matters relating to the Group’s 
business and its performance.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group donated $2,040,000 in support of 
community initiatives and charitable causes. This figure includes 
contributions from IHG employees and guests. No payments were 
made for political purposes.
Auditors
The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves 
aware of relevant audit information. None of the Directors is aware 
of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to 
the auditors.
The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the 
Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am on 
Friday, 25 May 2012 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders 
at the same time as this Annual Review.
Going concern
At the end of 2011, the Group was trading significantly within its 
banking covenants and debt facilities. IHG’s fee-based model and 
wide geographic spread means that it is well placed to manage 
through uncertain times.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011  
have therefore been prepared on the going concern basis.
SummARy diR ecto RS’ Repo Rt OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
  Summary directors’ report and c orporate governance	 47
coR poRAte Gove RnAnce
Code compliance
The Board is committed to compliance with all the principles  
and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the Code) and considers that the Company has complied with  
its requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In order 
to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the 
procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating 
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities. 
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Board has conducted  
a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and 
risk management. The system is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. Whilst areas for improvement have 
been identified and actions initiated, no significant shortcomings 
have been identified from the annual assessment. 
Board and Committees
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic 
direction, development, performance and control of the Group. It 
also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are 
in place for the Group to meet its objectives. There are eight regular 
Board meetings a year and further meetings are held as needed.
David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year. 
Richard Solomons became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011, having 
succeeded Andrew Cosslett who retired from the Board on 30 June 2011. 
In addition to three other Executive Directors, a team of seven 
experienced independent Non-Executive Directors represent  
a strong source of advice and judgement and together they have  
a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience and represent  
a wide geographical spread. 
The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Board’s 
attention and decision are available on the Company’s website  
at www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/ 
main board and executive committee. In addition to the Executive 
Committee, the following are the main Committees of the Board: 
Audit Committee; Nomination Committee; Remuneration 
Committee; and Corporate Responsibility Committee. The Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees consist wholly of 
Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman of the Board is a member 
of the Nomination Committee only. The terms of reference of these 
Committees were reviewed during 2011 to ensure that they 
continue to reflect best practice and are available on the Company’s 
website at www.ihgplc.com/investors under corporate governance/
committees or from the Company Secretary’s office on request. 
Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing 
training and development needs for all Directors are kept under review. 
The 2011 performance evaluation of the Board, its main Committees 
and its Directors was undertaken during January 2012 by an 
independent external facilitator, Lintstock Limited. It involved the 
completion of comprehensive questionnaires in which Directors 
and the Company Secretary were asked to evaluate the Board, each 
of its Committees and their respective Chairman and the Chairman 
of the Board. It was concluded that the Board and each of its main 
Committees continues to operate effectively and that each Director 
continues to make an effective contribution and retains a strong 
commitment to the role. 
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves 
for election or re-election by shareholders at the Company’s next 
Annual General Meeting.
Senior Independent Director
David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the 
year. His role includes being available to liaise with shareholders 
who have concerns that they feel have not been addressed through 
the normal channels, being a sounding board for the Chairman and 
leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Company Secretary
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. His responsibilities include advising the Board on 
corporate governance, and for ensuring good information flows to 
the Board and its Committees and between senior management 
and the Non-Executive Directors. He also facilitates the induction  
of new Directors and the regular updating and refreshing of all 
Directors’ skills and knowledge.
Shareholder relations
The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and 
releases quarterly results. In addition, regular meetings are held 
with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the 
business, its performance, plans and objectives. The Chairman, the 
Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are 
available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance 
and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns. 
The Annual General Meeting provides an additional forum for 
one-to-one communication with private shareholders and to 
answer their questions. Information of interest to investors is also 
maintained on the Company’s website at www.ihgplc.com/investors
Summary Audit Committee report
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, 
supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation to 
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and associated 
announcements, the adequacy of internal control and risk 
management systems and the appointment and work of the 
internal and external auditors. The external auditor and the 
Head of Global Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet 
privately with the Committee. 
During the year, the Committee’s deliberations included a wide 
range of matters addressing all its main areas of responsibility. 
The Committee’s main focus was to review the quarterly, 
interim and full-year financial results and to review the 
effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting and risk 
management processes, through reports and presentations 
received from Global Internal Audit, the external auditors and 
management. Consideration was also given to tax risk, policies 
and initiatives, global technology strategy, treasury matters and 
the funding position of the Group’s main pension plan. 	48	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
Introduction
There has been increased focus on executive pay during 2011.  
We have looked to reflect as far as possible the transparency 
sought by the UK Government. However, at the time of writing this 
report, we await final detailed proposals.
We remain confident that IHG’s remuneration plans and outcomes 
are aligned with the delivery of business performance and strategy 
and that our approach is appropriate to attract and retain the talent 
needed to build shareholder returns in this global business.
However, we also recognise the need to explain and justify clearly 
the level of Executive Directors’ remuneration and how and why 
bonuses and long-term incentives have been earned.
We continue to try to make this report easier to read and assess. 
We have expanded the explanation of the strong link between 
business strategy and Executive Directors’ remuneration. We have 
also set out what we consider the best measure of the actual 
remuneration for the year, being:
•  the cash the Executive Directors received in salary and bonus  
for 2011; plus
•  the value of the deferred shares received for 2011 performance; plus
•  the value of the 2009/2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) award 
triggered by performance for the three years up to and including 2011. 
We believe these are the most relevant figures for shareholders  
to focus on as they represent the remuneration generated by 
employment and performance in the year.
Performance	 in	 2011
The remuneration outcomes reflect strong results with the Board 
recommending a final dividend which will deliver a 15% full-year 
increase for shareholders.
Key	 performance	 indicator	 growth	 (per	 annum)
   2011 2010
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)  +26.0% +22.6%
Three-year total shareholder return (TSR)* +29.8% +8.0%
Three-year adjusted earnings per share (EPS)* +2.5% +9.6%
* Annualised
Based on these results, 2011 Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) outcomes 
consisted of a cash bonus of up to 86.5% of base salary, and an  
award of deferred shares with a value of up to 86.5% of base salary, 
which will vest after three years (subject to continued employment). 
The 2009/2011 LTIP vested at 73.9% of maximum, representing 
151.5% of base salary for Executive Directors who participated  
in the full three-year cycle.
Changes to the Board
Richard	 Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive 
on 1 July 2011 and his annual base salary increased to £700,000  
from this date. As Mr Solomons was previously an Executive 
Director in his prior role as Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Commercial Development at IHG, his incentive arrangements 
remained unchanged.
Andrew	 Cosslett retired from his position as Chief Executive,  
and his contract of employment and directorship terminated, on 
30 June 2011. There was no payment in respect of loss of office.  
In accordance with the current plan rules, the Committee released 
all ABP deferred shares upon retirement as there were no further 
performance conditions that would affect the number of shares that 
The Summary Remuneration Report is extracted from the full Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report  
and Financial Statements 201 1, a copy of which is available on request and can be viewed on the Company’s website at  
www.ihgplc.com/investors under financial library. The Remuneration Report will be put to the vote at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. 
Remuneration	 in	 2011
The maximum annual bonus under the ABP reverted to 200% of 
base salary after temporary changes made in the preceding two 
years to recognise the volatility of the economic environment.
There has been particular focus by the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee) in 2011 on the LTIP and the UK defined benefit 
pension plan. 
The maximum LTIP award remained at 205% of base salary having 
been reduced in 2009 from 270% of base salary. 
In the previous Remuneration report, we introduced two new 
performance measures for the 2011 LTIP award to enhance 
alignment of the plan to the Company’s strategy. These measures 
will apply to the 2011/2013 LTIP cycle award, which will vest in 2014, 
and subsequent awards; they are net rooms growth and like-for-like 
revenue per available room (RevPAR) growth. Each of these 
measures accounts for 25% of the LTIP weighting and are measured 
relative to major competitors. Relative TSR will continue to account 
for 50% of the LTIP weighting.
Following a review of the UK defined benefit pension plan, its closure  
to future accruals with effect from 1 July 2013 was announced. Active 
plan participants, including Richard Solomons, will be aligned with other 
employees on a consistent defined contribution structure. From 1 July 
2013, the value of defined benefit pensions on retirement will be linked  
to inflation rather than to future salary increases. In line with other 
employees, participating Executive Directors will not receive any cash 
compensation for the impact this will have on their pension benefits.
As part of the consultation with employees and the plan trustees about 
these changes, it was agreed that the Enhanced Early Retirement 
Facility, which provides an option for plan members retiring with the 
Company’s agreement to retire within five years of normal retirement 
age on accrued benefits without reduction, would be retained.  
The level of plan funding provides for this facility. The Committee 
considered that the reduction in risk and expense achieved by 
closing the defined benefit plan justified the cost of retaining this 
facility for the existing active members of the plan.
Remuneration	 in	 2012
Following the changes to the structure of the 2011 incentive plans, 
the design and measures for the 2012 plans will remain effectively 
unchanged. However, we have introduced Committee discretion to 
claw back unvested share awards in exceptional circumstances. 
During 2012 we will be revisiting the ABP structure to ensure it 
continues to be designed optimally to drive and reward the annual 
financial and individual performance required to deliver our 
corporate strategy. We will report back on any outcomes next year.
SummARy Remune RAtion Repo Rt OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
	 Summary remuneration report	 49
could potentially vest; as a result 155,657 shares vested on 1 July 
2011. Mr Cosslett continues to be eligible for a pro-rated vesting of 
his outstanding LTIP awards, which will be determined at the end of 
the relevant plan cycles, subject to performance conditions being 
achieved. In addition, Mr Cosslett received a pro-rated cash award 
under the 2011 ABP based on actual performance results at  
year end.
When Mr Cosslett ceased pensionable service on 30 June 2011, his 
accrued pension entitlement was £177,800 per annum before cash 
commutation. In line with the terms of the plan, he commuted part of 
this for a lump sum and immediately drew the remainder as pension. 
Thomas	 Singer was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 
26 September 2011. Mr Singer’s annual base salary is £540,000  
and his incentives are in line with IHG’s remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors. Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP. 
In order to secure his recruitment, IHG agreed to compensate 
Mr Singer for incentives from his previous employer that he had  
to forgo, and the Committee approved the following one-off 
arrangements which apply to Mr Singer only:
•  a cash payment of £480,000 to be paid in March 2012; and 
•  a restricted award of 46,635 shares which vests on 27 September 
2012, one year from the date of grant. These shares will be 
forfeited if Mr Singer leaves the Company before the vesting date. 
Business strategy and remuneration
IHG’s remuneration approach is designed to support and reflect  
the delivery of business strategy by:
•  attracting and retaining high-quality executives in an environment 
where compensation is based on global market practice;
•  aligning rewards for executives with the achievement  
of business performance targets, strategic objectives and  
returns to shareholders;
•  supporting equitable treatment between members of the same 
executive team; and
•  facilitating global assignments and relocation.
IHG’s remuneration structure for senior executives places a strong 
emphasis on performance-related reward. The Committee believes 
that it is important to reward management, including the Executive 
Directors, for targets achieved, provided those targets are stretching.
Business strategy is the driver of our reward structure. 
We show below how IHG’s Vision and strategy directly link to the 
current measures used in IHG’s incentive plans. 
There are no performance conditions attached to these one-off 
arrangements and the awards are not pensionable. However, it is 
expected that all shares that vest will be held by Mr Singer until he 
meets the expected shareholding set out on page 52.
In addition, to ensure immediate alignment to the long-term 
performance of IHG, pro-rated awards were made for the 2010/2012 
LTIP cycle and the 2011/2013 LTIP cycle of 137% and 154% of salary 
respectively. Vesting of these awards is subject to the results of the 
performance conditions for the relevant plan cycle. 
As part of his recruitment terms, it was agreed that Mr Singer would 
not have a salary review until April 2013.
Kirk	 Kinsell (formerly President, Europe, Middle East and Africa) 
succeeded James	 Abrahamson as President, The Americas 
following Mr Abrahamson’s resignation from IHG on 13 June 2011.  
In accordance with his termination arrangements, all of 
Mr Abrahamson’s outstanding deferred share awards under the ABP 
and unvested LTIP awards lapsed and he relinquished all rights to an 
annual bonus in respect of the 2011 ABP. No remuneration changes 
were made for Mr Kinsell as a result of his new appointment.
Tracy	 Robbins was promoted to the Board on 9 August 2011. Her 
annual base salary following promotion was increased to £400,000. 
However, as an Executive Committee member since joining IHG,  
Ms Robbins’ incentive arrangements remained unchanged.
GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE
WHERE WE COMPETE
Growing our core business in the largest markets where scale really 
counts, and also in key global gateway cities and resort destinations
Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale in new business areas
HOW WE WIN
Profitable market share
Progressive margins
Sustainable investment
Responsible business
NET ROOMS GROWTH
Supports our business model, segment and market
strategies to grow system size over three years
EBIT
Provides annual focus on earnings growth driven 
by core operating inputs, namely rooms growth, 
RevPAR, royalty fees and profit margins
LIKE-FOR-LIKE RevPAR GROWTH
Reflects the sustainable power of our brands, 
scale and experience, and engaged workforce
Focuses growth on quality rooms in key markets
INDIVIDUAL OVERALL PERFORMANCE RATING
Provides annual focus on key performance objectives 
and leadership competencies for the role:
Best-in-class delivery – growth and other targets 
Talented people – employee engagement survey results
Preferred brands – brand performance targets 
Responsible business – adoption of Green Engage
VISION & STRATEGY REWARD MEASURES
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
Aligned with our Vision to become one of the world’s great companies
LTIP measures ABP measures
GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE
…achieved through strategic priorities 	50	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
SummARy Remune RAtion Repo Rt continued
Total remuneration
The chart below sets out the actual and potential maximum remuneration outcomes for 2011 performance for current Executive Directors  
excluding Thomas Singer, who joined IHG in 2011 and did not participate in the 2011 ABP or receive any vested awards during the year.  
The elements shown are as follows:
•  Actual	 2011	 salary	 paid – for Richard Solomons, this is his actual pay for the year and reflects the salary increase that occurred part way 
through the year in respect of his change in role to Chief Executive; for Kirk Kinsell this shows actual salary paid converted into sterling. 
For Tracy Robbins, who joined the Board part way through the year, this represents 2011 actual salary paid, including salary paid prior  
to becoming a Director; 
•  2011	 ABP	 cash – the cash portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance;
• 	 2011	 ABP	 deferred	 shares – the value of the deferred share portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance; and
•  2009/2011	 LTIP – the value at 31 December 2011, of the 2009/2011 LTIP award made in 2009, which will vest on 15 February 2012 based on 
performance for the three years up to and including 2011. 
The maximum figures represent the maximum value of each element of remuneration that could have been received in each case by the 
Executive Director. For the 2009/2011 LTIP, the maximum value is based on the share price as at 31 December 2011.  
2011 2011
Richard Solomons
Maximum Actual Maximum* Actual* Maximum Actual
2011
Tracy Robbins Kirk Kinsell
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Value (£000)
 Actual 2011 salary paid             2011 ABP cash             2011 ABP deferred shares             2009/2011 LTIP
* Mr Kinsell is paid in US dollars and the sterling values in the chart above have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62.
The percentage of total remuneration for 2011 that is performance-related exceeds the 70% level that would be payable for target 
performance. This reflects above-target performance for both the 2011 ABP and the 2009/2011 LTIP. OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES
	 Summary remuneration report	 51
Remuneration elements
Base	 salary	 and	 benefits
The salary for each Executive Director is reviewed annually. Base 
salary is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable. 
In reviewing potential salary changes, the Committee considers 
business and individual performance, average salary increases for 
the wider IHG workforce and, where appropriate, the terms offered 
by comparator and competitor companies.
When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups  
are chosen having regard to participants’:
•  size – market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number  
of people employed;
•  diversity and complexity of business;
•  geographical spread of business; and
•  relevance to the hotel industry.
Annual	 Bonus	 Plan	
Awards under the ABP require the achievement of challenging 
performance goals before a target bonus of 115% of salary is 
payable. Half of any award earned is compulsorily deferred in the 
form of shares for three years. No matching shares are awarded  
by the Company. 
Performance
measures
Payment
structure
Annual
Bonus
for 2011
70%
EBIT
50%
Cash 30%
Individual
50%
Deferred
shares
Long	 Term	 Incentive	 Plan
The LTIP allows Executive Directors and eligible management 
employees to receive share awards, subject to the achievement  
of performance conditions, measured over a three-year period. 
Awards are made annually and, other than in exceptional 
circumstances, will not exceed three times annual salary for 
Executive Directors. 
For the 2012/2014 cycle, the performance conditions are:
•  IHG’s TSR relative to the Dow Jones Global Hotels (DJGH) index  
(50% of the award);
• cumulative annual growth of net rooms (25% of the award); and
•  cumulative annual like-for-like RevPAR growth (25% of the award).
Vesting for points between threshold and maximum will be 
calculated on a straight-line basis. 
Performance
measures
Payment
structure
LTIP
2011/2013
25% RevPAR
25% Rooms
100%
Shares
50%
TSR
 
After testing the performance conditions set on grant, the 
Committee will review the vesting outcomes of the rooms and 
RevPAR measures against an assessment of earnings and quality 
of the financial performance of the Company over the period. The 
Committee may reduce the number of shares which vest if they 
determine such an adjustment is appropriate. 
The LTIP three-year cycle ending 31 December 2011 was based  
on relative TSR and EPS and resulted in 73.9% vesting for the 
Executive Directors, as shown on the next page. 
For 2011, EBIT achieved was 104.1% of target for the year. Based  
on this performance, the following table shows the level of 2011 
awards, of which 50% was paid in cash and 50% in deferred shares 
that will vest after three years:
    Award as % of salary
Measure Key performance indicator Target Max
Financial  EBIT (70%) 80.5 161
Individual  Overall performance rating (OPR) (30%) 34.5 69
   Total	 for	 2011 115	 200*
* Combined EBIT & OPR payout subject to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
Actual	 2011	 result	 for	 current	 Executive	 Directors	 (as	%	 of	 salary)
    EBIT % OPR % Total % 
     payout  payout  payout
Richard Solomons 113.5 51.8 165.3
Kirk Kinsell 113.5 43.1 156.6
Thomas Singer* N/A N/A N/A
Tracy Robbins 113.5 60.4 173.9
* Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP.
In addition, benefits are provided to Executive Directors in 
accordance with local market practice. 
The current Executive Directors’ annual base salaries are:
			 	 2012	 2012	 2011	 2011
Director		 £	 $	 £	 $
Richard Solomons 721,000  700,000
Kirk Kinsell   755,400  737,000
Thomas Singer 540,000  540,000
Tracy Robbins 412,000	 400,000 	52	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
SummARy Remune RAtion Repo Rt continued
The measures used in the 2009/2011 cycle are set out in the table below:
Performance		
measure
Threshold	
performance
Maximum	
performance
Threshold	
vesting
Maximum	
vesting Weighting
Maximum	
award Outcome
TSR Growth equal to 
the DJGH index
Growth exceeds the 
index by 8% or more
20% 100% 66.7% 102.5% Growth exceeded  
index by 7.9%
EPS Growth of 0%  
per annum
Growth of 10%  
per annum or more
0% 100% 33.3% 102.5% Growth of 2.5%  
per annum
Total	 vesting	
outcome
73.9%	 of	 maximum		
award
Performance graph
Throughout 2011, the Company was a member of the FTSE 100 index and, for remuneration purposes, used a TSR comparator group of  
the DJGH index. Accordingly, the Committee has determined that these are the most appropriate market indices against which to test the 
Company’s performance. The graph below shows the TSR performance of IHG from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2011, assuming 
dividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved by the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index. Over the five-year period, 
IHG TSR performance increased by just under 4%. Over the last three years, it outperformed the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index.
Total	 Shareholder	 Return:	 InterContinental	 Hotels	 Group	 PLC	v	 FTSE	 100	 and	v	 Dow	 Jones	 Global	 Hotels	 index
Source: Datastream InterContinental Hotels Group PLC
total shareholder return index
FTSE 100
total shareholder return index
Dow Jones Global Hotels
total shareholder return index
31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
120
108
104
89
100
80
60
40
20
0
Share ownership
Executive Directors are expected to hold twice their base salary in shares, or three times in the case of the Chief Executive. Executive 
Directors are expected to hold all shares earned (net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities) until their shareholding 
requirement is achieved. The required number of shares are held by Richard Solomons and Kirk Kinsell.
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is agreed by the Board and the Chairman, taking into account fees paid in other companies  
of a similar complexity. Higher fees are payable to the Senior Independent Director who chairs the Audit Committee and to the Chairmen  
of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees, reflecting the additional responsibilities of these roles. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fee levels are reviewed annually. In the final quarter of 2011 an increase of approximately 2% for the Non-Executive 
Directors was agreed from 1 January 2012 as shown below. This increase is broadly in line with anticipated salary increases for executive 
and senior management employees across the wider organisation. The Chairman waived any right to an increase in respect of his fees  
for 2012.
    Fees	 at	 Fees at 
    1	 Jan	 2012 1 Jan 2011 
Director Role £ £
David Webster Chairman 406,000 406,000
David Kappler Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 105,060 103,000
Luke Mayhew Chairman of Remuneration Committee 88,230 –
Jennifer Laing Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 77,520 76,000
Others Non-Executive Director 66,300 65,000 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE
	 Summary remuneration report	 53
Service contracts
The Committee’s policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months. Richard Solomons,  
Thomas Singer, Kirk Kinsell and Tracy Robbins have service agreements with a notice period of 12 months. 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. David Webster’s appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is subject to six  
months’ notice. 
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses (excluding pensions and bonus awards paid in deferred shares)  
and tax assessable benefits and allowances, including company cars and healthcare cover:
         1	 Jan	 2011	 to 1 Jan 2010 to 
        31	 Dec	 2011 31 Dec 2010 
        £000 £000
Executive	 Directors	
Andrew Cosslett
1
      1,174 1,571
Richard Solomons
2
      1,148 996
James Abrahamson
3
      255 380
Kirk Kinsell
4
      1,143 436
Tracy Robbins
5
      343 –
Thomas Singer
6
      187 –
Non-Executive	 Directors
David Webster      406 398
Graham Allan      65 63
David Kappler      103 100
Ralph Kugler
7
      43 84
Jennifer Laing      76 74
Jonathan Linen      65 63
Luke Mayhew
8
      43 –
Dale Morrison
9
      38 –
Ying Yeh      65 63
Former	 Directors
10
      1 1
Total      5,155 4,229
 1  Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of retirement. 
 2  Richard Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
 3  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of leaving. He was paid in US dollars.  
The sterling figure above has been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62. 
 4  Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars. The sterling figure above has been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62. 
 5  Tracy Robbins was appointed as a Director on 9 August 2011. The above figure reflects her emoluments from her date of appointment.
 6 Thomas Singer was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2011. The above figure reflects his emoluments from his date of appointment. 
 7  Ralph Kugler retired as a Director on 30 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of retirement.
 8  Luke Mayhew was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated from his date of appointment.
 9  Dale Morrison was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2011. His emoluments have been pro-rated from his date of appointment.
 10  Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003. However, he had an ongoing healthcare benefit of £1,205 during the year.
FACTS AND FIGURES 	54	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
SummARy Remune RAtion Repo Rt continued
Pensions
It was announced on 29 September 2011 that the UK registered defined benefit InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan (the IC Plan)  
would close to future accrual for existing members with effect from 1 July 2013. Richard Solomons and other senior UK-based executives 
participate on the same basis in the executive section of the IC Plan and the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme (ICETUS).  
Andrew Cosslett, who ceased to be a Director on 30 June 2011, also participated in the IC Plan and ICETUS. 
Tracy Robbins participates in the executive defined contribution section of the IC Plan. Employer contributions to the IC Plan made for 
Tracy Robbins since becoming an Executive Director in 2011 amounted to £10,032. In addition, Ms Robbins received a salary supplement  
in lieu of pension contributions of £33,175. Thomas Singer received a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of £41,979.
Kirk Kinsell and other senior US-based executives participate in US retirement benefit plans. James Abrahamson, who ceased to be  
a Director on 13 June 2011, also participated in the US retirement benefit plan. 
The following table sets out the pension benefits of the Executive Directors in the UK defined benefit plans:
   Andrew  Richard 
   Cosslett
1
 Solomons
2
 
   £ £
Transfer value of accrued benefits at 1 January 2011 3,438,100 4,708,400
Transfer	 value	 of	 accrued	 benefits	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 5,643,300	 6,999,800
Increase in transfer value over the year, less Directors’ contributions 2,184,800 2,265,400
Increase in accrued pension (per annum) 10,300 52,900
Accrued pension at 31 December 2011 (per annum) 180,000 304,300
Age	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 56	 50
1   When Andrew Cosslett ceased pensionable service with the Group on 30 June 2011, under the terms of the IC Plan his pension entitlement was £177,800 per annum  
before any cash commutation. In line with the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility (EERF) which is available to all members of the plan, this pension was not reduced on 
retirement. This facility enables members to retire without reduction in pension if they are within 5 years of normal retirement age. Although the EERF is non-contractual,  
its continuation formed part of the agreement with trustees on closure of the defined benefit section of the IC Plan, and the provisions of the facility state that while in place, it 
cannot reasonably be refused to retiring employees.
2  The increase in the transfer value of accrued benefits for Richard Solomons arises partly from the increase in salary resulting from his appointment as Chief Executive  
and partly from a change in the transfer value basis resulting from lower gilt yields.
Contributions made by and in respect of James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell to the US defined contributions plans are
1
:
   James Kirk 
   Abrahamson
2
 Kinsell 
   £ £
Directors’ contributions to DCP in 2011 4,200 204,200
Directors’ contributions to 401(k) in 2011 6,100 13,700
Company contribution to DCP in 2011 4,200 99,600
Company contribution to 401(k) in 2011 6,100 6,100
Age	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 56	 56
1 Sterling values have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1=£0.62.
2  James Abrahamson ceased to be a Director upon his resignation from IHG on 13 June 2011. The Company contribution to the DCP shown for Mr Abrahamson excludes 
Company contributions of £36,200 that were forfeited by Mr Abrahamson because he ceased to be a member of the DCP before these contributions vested five years after 
joining the DCP. Similarly, an amount of £14,000 of Company contributions to the DCP included in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts has been forfeited. 
Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards
Directors’ pre-tax share interests during the year were as set out below. No matching shares are provided on awards.
        Value based 
        on share 
        price of 
   ABP  ABP ABP Value at ABP 1,157.0p at 
   awards held at  awards during shares vested vesting awards held at 31 Dec 2011 
Directors 1 Jan 2011 the year during the year  £  31 Dec 2011  £
Andrew Cosslett
1
  175,939 51,005  226,944 2,986,642 – 
Richard Solomons  112,183  32,295 45,634 616,424 98,844 1,143,625
James Abrahamson
2
  – 27,758 –  – 
Kirk Kinsell  61,158 27,375 19,731 266,526 68,802 796,039
Tracy Robbins  57,438 20,377 24,306  328,325 53,509 619,099
Thomas Singer  – – –  – 
Total	 	 406,718	 158,810	 	 	 221,155	 2,558,763
1 Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of financial years 2008 and 2010 were released early on 1 July 2011.
2 James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of financial year 2010 have lapsed.
All Executive Directors participated in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2011 except for Thomas Singer, who did not participate 
having joined IHG in September 2011.  OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE
	 Summary remuneration report	 55
FACTS AND FIGURES
Special share awards
Details of special share awards that were granted and vested during the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out below:
         Value based 
         on share 
         price of 
   Awards  Awards Shares Market price Value at Awards 1,157.0p at 
   held at  during vested during per share vesting held at 31 Dec 2011 
Directors 1 Jan 2011 the year the year  at vesting £  31 Dec 2011  £
James Abrahamson
1
 90,000  45,000 1,373.4p 618,030 – 
Thomas Singer
2
 – 46,635    46,635 539,567
1  James Abrahamson received a special share award which was to vest over three years as part of his recruitment terms in 2009. Vesting each year was subject to continued 
service. His award of 45,000 shares due to vest on 15 February 2012 lapsed upon his resignation as a Director on 13 June 2011.
2  Thomas Singer received a special share award which vests one year from his appointment as a Director as part of his recruitment terms. Vesting is subject to continued service.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards
In 2011, there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested. The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 
31 December 2011 in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, and the maximum pre-tax number of ordinary 
shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below. For the cycle ending on 31 December 2011, the 
Company outperformed the DJGH index in TSR by 7.9 percentage points and achieved 2.5% per annum adjusted EPS growth. Accordingly, 
73.9% of the award will vest on 15 February 2012.
       Maximum 
       value based on 
 Maximum  Maximum    Maximum share price of 
 LTIP awards  LTIP shares LTIP shares Market price Value at LTIP awards 1,157.0p at 
 held at  awarded during vested during per share vesting held at 31 Dec 2011 
Directors 1 Jan 2011 the year
1
 the year
2
 at vesting £  31 Dec 2011  £
Andrew Cosslett
3
  686,567 137,438 187,126   1,373.4p  2,569,988 330,143 3,819,754
Richard Solomons 436,155 87,234 118,995 1,373.4p 1,634,277 362,148 4,190,052
James Abrahamson
4
 382,711 72,872 121,750 1,373.4p 1,672,115 – –
Kirk Kinsell 292,064 72,872 62,284 1,373.4p 855,408 280,539 3,245,836
Tracy Robbins 234,841 55,248 63,697 1,373.4p 874,815 203,778 2,357,711
Thomas Singer
5
 –  148,648       148,648 1,719,858
Total	 2,032,338	 574,312	 	 	 	 1,325,256	 15,333,211
1  This award is based on performance to 31 December 2013 where the performance measures relate to the Company’s TSR relative to the DJGH index and the growth in 
adjusted earnings per share (EPS) over the performance period. 
2  This award was based on performance to 31 December 2010 where the performance measure related to both the Company’s TSR relative to the index and the cumulative 
annual growth rate (CAGR) in adjusted EPS over the performance period. The Company out-performed the DJGH index in TSR by 8 percentage points and achieved 9.6%  
per annum adjusted EPS growth. Accordingly, 73.8% of the award vested on 16 February 2011.
3  Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 were pro-rated to reflect 
his contractual service during the applicable performance periods.
4  James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011. Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 have lapsed.
5  Thomas Singer’s LTIP awards are pro-rated as explained on page 49.
Share options
Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan. No executive share options have been 
granted since 2005.
       Weighted 
    Options Exercised Options average 
    held at during  held at option price at 
Directors    1 Jan 2011 the year 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011
Kirk Kinsell    109,150
1
  109,150
2
 531.06p
Richard Solomons    330,870
1
  330,870
2
 532.36p
1 Executive share options granted in 2004 and 2005.
2 Executive share options granted in 2004 are exercisable up to April 2014. Executive options granted in 2005 are exercisable up to April 2015. 
No Director exercised options during the year; therefore there is no disclosable gain by Directors in aggregate for the year ended 
31 December 2011 (2010 nil). 	56	 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
inve Sto R in FoRmAtion
 Website and electronic communication
As part of the Company’s commitment to reducing the cost  
and environmental impact of producing and distributing  
printed documents in very large quantities, IHG’s Annual Report  
and Annual Review have been made available to shareholders 
through the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under 
financial library. 
 Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion
IHG is offering discounted hotel stays (subject to availability) for 
registered shareholders, through a dedicated, controlled access 
website. For further details please contact the Company Secretariat 
at the registered office on 01895 512 000 or email 
companysecretariat@ihg.com.
 Share price information 
The latest share price is available in the financial press. Further 
details of the share price may be found on the Company’s website 
www.ihgplc.com/investors.
 Changes to the base cost of IHG shares
Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since 
April 2003 up to December 2011, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, 
may be found on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors 
under shareholder centre/tax information.
 Corporate Responsibility Report
IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report 
(updated quarterly) covering progress on a range of environmental, 
social and community issues. This is available on our corporate 
website and can be viewed at www.ihgplc.com/responsibility.
 Registrar
For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of  
a shareholder’s change of address and for information on a range 
of shareholder services please contact the Company’s Registrar, 
Equiniti (details shown on page 57).
 Dividend services
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) for 
shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash 
dividends. For further information about the DRIP, please contact 
our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268
†
. A DRIP application form 
and information booklet are available on the Company’s website  
www.ihgplc.com/investors under shareholder centre/dividends.
Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly  
into a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate  
their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of 
shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
It may be possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid 
direct to their bank account in a local currency. Charges are 
payable for this service. Further information is available at  
www.shareview.co.uk under shareholder centre/overseas  
payment service.
If you think that you have out of date dividend cheques or 
outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar  
for further information.
 Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) 
Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares. For further information please 
contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244
†
.
 Share dealing services
Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares. For more 
information on this service, call 0871 384 2132
†
. They also offer a 
telephone and internet share dealing service, Shareview Dealing, 
which provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling 
shares. For telephone dealings, call 08456 037 037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings  
log on to www.shareview.co.uk.
 ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, 
the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell. Details can be 
obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.sharegift.org  
or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
 Missing shareholders
Working with ProSearch (an asset reunification company), we 
continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact 
details up-to-date. We have funds waiting to be claimed and are 
committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful 
owners. For further details please contact ProSearch on  
01732 741 411 or email info@prosearchassets.com.
 Shareholder security
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas-based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often 
turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments. 
These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. More 
detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the 
Financial Services Authority website www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will be included in Company mailings.
 American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) 
The Company’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs, and 
traded under the symbol ‘IHG’. Each ADR represents one ordinary 
share. All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment  
of dividends should be directed to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our 
authorised depositary bank (details shown on page 57). 
The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the US and files with 
the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F. The Form 20-F can be 
found on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under 
shareholder centre/ADR holders or by visiting the SEC’s website 
www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.
 Summary forward-looking statement 
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains 
certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation 
(Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). By their 
nature, such statements involve uncertainty; as a consequence, 
actual results and developments may differ materially from those 
expressed in or implied by such statements. A more detailed 
explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forward-looking 
statements is set out on page 129 of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2011, copies of which are available from the 
registered office of the Company (details shown on page 57) or  
on the Company’s website www.ihgplc.com/investors under 
shareholder centre/reports. 	 Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts	 57
  Ove RvI ew
	 2 Headlines
 3 Chairman’s statement
 4  Chief e xecutive’s review
 
  GRe AT BRAn DS
 6 Delivering great brands
 8 InterContinental Hotels & Resorts
 10 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts
 12  Hotel Indigo
 14 The Holiday Inn brand family
 18 Staybridge Suites
 20  Candlewood Suites
 22 Priority Club Rewards
  HOw we OPeRATe
 23  Our system, Our business model  
and Our set up
 24  Finance
 25  Message from the  
IHG Owners Association
 26 People
 28 Technology
 30 Business reputation
 32 Corporate responsibility
  w HeRe we OPeRATe
 34 Global overview
 36 The Americas
 37 e urope
 38 Asia, Middle east and Africa 
 39 Greater China
  FACTS An D FIGUReS
 40 Summary financial statement
 44  Our senior leadership team
 46  Summary Directors’ report
 47 Corporate governance
 48 Summary remuneration report
 56 Investor information
 57 Financial calendar and Contacts
w e operate 4,480 hotels and  
658,348 rooms internationally
w e franchise, manage and own hotels  
in nearly 100 countries and territories
Annual General Meeting:  
25 May 2012
WHERE	WE	OPERATE HOW	WE	OPERATE GREAT	BRANDS OVERVIEW
FInAn CIAL CALenDAR
     2011
Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share (16.0 cents per ADR)  7 October
Financial year end   31 December
     2012
Preliminary announcement of annual results  14 February
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Ex-dividend date 21 March
   Record date 23 March
Announcement of first quarter results   9 May
Annual General Meeting  25 May
Final dividend of 24.7p per share (39.0 cents per ADR):  Payment date 1 June
Announcement of interim results   7 August
Interim dividend:  Payment date October
Announcement of third quarter results   6 November
Financial year end   31 December
    2013
Preliminary announcement of annual results   February
COn TACTS
Registered office
Broadwater Park, Denham  
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR
Telephone +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax +44 (0) 1895 512 101
www.ihgplc.com
For general information  
about the Group’s business 
please contact the Corporate 
Affairs department at the  
above address. For all other 
enquiries please contact the 
Company Secretariat at the 
above address.
Registrar
Equiniti, Aspect House 
Spencer Road, Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone  0871 384 2132*
†
  
(UK calls) 
  +44 (0) 121 415 7034  
(international calls) 
www.shareview.co.uk 
 
 *For those with hearing difficulties  
a text phone is available on  
0871 384 2255
†
 for UK callers with 
compatible equipment.
	 †
Telephone calls to these numbers are 
currently charged at 8p per minute 
if using a BT landline. Other network 
provider costs may vary.
ADR depositary
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504  
USA
Telephone  +1 800 990 1135  
(US callers – toll free) 
  +1 651 453 2128  
(non-US callers) 
Email: 
jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
www.adr.com
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Goldman Sachs
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Investment bankers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
Citi 
Goldman Sachs
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus  
Deringer LLP
Priority Club Rewards
If you wish to enquire about,  
or to join Priority Club Rewards, 
IHG’s loyalty programme for 
frequent travellers, please  
visit www.priorityclub.com  
or telephone: 
0871 226 1111
∞
 (in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa)  
(toll charges apply)
+1 888 211 9874 (in US and 
Canada) (toll free)
+1 800 272 9273 (in Mexico)  
(toll free)
+1 801 975 3013 (Spanish)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+1 801 975 3063 (English)  
(in Central and South America) 
(toll charges apply)
+63 2 857 8788 (from most 
countries in Asia Pacific)  
(toll charges apply)
	
	 ∞
Telephone calls to this number are 
charged at 10p per minute. Standard 
network rates apply. Calls from 
mobiles will be higher.
Designed	and	produced		
by	Corporate	Edge	
Print	management	by		
HH	Associates
Printed	by	Royle	Print
This Report is printed  
on 9lives 80 Silk which is  
made up of 60% FSC post-
consumer recycled fibre,  
20% pre-consumer recycled 
fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 
from FSC managed forests. 
Our printer is also FSC and 
Carbon Neutral accredited.
For further investor information visit www.ihgplc.com/investors
¤
Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 
received the highest numerical 
score among mid-scale full 
service and upscale hotels, 
respectively, in the proprietary 
J.D. Power and Associates 2011 
North America Hotel Guest 
Satisfaction Index Study
SM
. 
Study based on responses  
from 61,313 guests measuring  
6 mid-scale full service and  
11 upscale hotels and measures 
opinions of guests who stayed  
in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011. 
Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and 
perceptions of consumers 
surveyed June 2010-May 2011. 
Your experiences may vary.  
Visit jdpower.com.
FACTS AND FIGURES Make a booking at
www.ihg.com
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 
Broadwater Park, Denham, 
Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR 
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1895 512 000 
Fax:  +44 (0) 1895 512 1 01
www.ihgplc.com
Make a booking at
www.ihg.com InterContinental Beijing Beichen, China
Ann UAL Rev Iew  
AnD S UMMARy 
FInAn CIAL  
STATeMen T 2011
